Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 RAIT Financial Trust’s Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Towanda.
And I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I’d now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Andres Viroslav Director of Corporate Communication.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Towanda and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust first quarter 2011 financial results.
On the call with today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Salmon RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of a call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 22905171.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I’d like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you very much Andres.
And thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s first quarter 2011 results.
Let’s start with some key highlights.
We are reporting our second consecutive quarter of operating income.
We increased rental income and property NOI on our owned portfolio.
Our NGO’s are down in our loan book.
Our provision for loan losses has declined to 1.95 million and our CRE CDO coverage test have stabilized.
In March we raised gross proceeds of 115 million to the issuance of the new convertible notes and used the proceeds to repurchase 88 million of our 2007 convertible notes and to reduce short-term recourse debt by 21 million or 51%.
Subsequent to quarter end we repaid an additional 15.7 million of higher cost senior secured debt.
And finally we are experiencing reduced volatility and our results quarter-over-quarter.
RAIT is much different company today than it was four year's ago.
We have aggregated the sizeable portfolio of directly held real estate and moved away from being solely a specialty finance company.
Going forward as we continue to build our lending ownership and management capability we also must adapt that performance metrics to match our new direction.
Therefore we are introducing a new reporting metric adjusted funds from operation which will useful supplemental operating performance measure to our GAAP results.
I’m pleased to report GAAP earnings of $0.05 per diluted share and 1.7 million of operating cost at the quarter.
Our second consecutive quarter of operating income which includes 7.1 million in depreciation expense.
Adjusted funds from operation or AFFO was $0.06 per share for quarter ending March 31st 2011 compared to $0.03 for the quarter ended March 31st 2010.
Jack will discuss great financial results AFO and AFFO in more detail and highlight key drivers of RAIT’s first financial performance shortly.
We continue to from improvements in the commercial real estate markets in general and specifically from improvement in our core portfolios.
These improvements have had a positive impact on the stability and importantly the quality of RAIT’s earning.
The quarterly earnings are a direct result of increasing net operating income driven by higher occupancy rates within our owned commercial real estate portfolio combined with stabilizing commercial real estate loan book lower credit cost and fewer non-performing loan.
General and administrative costs are up slightly as we invest capital today and the future revenue generating initiatives.
During the quarter we took advantage of an opportunity to an effect refinance our outstanding convertible debt.
We successfully raised gross proceeds of 115 million and a public debt offering to the issuance of 7% senior convertible notes.
The proceeds from the offering neutralized the April 2012 [put for cash] of our 6.78% convertible debt.
We believe the company has the resources to retire the remaining $55.6 million balance put to us in April of 2012.
This transaction allows us to look forward and to focus our efforts on building revenues through our core competencies utilizing our vertically integrated commercial real estate platform.
Now into business initiatives.
First as I mentioned last quarter in addition to our bridge and mezzanine lending programs we recently formed a CMBS lending unit utilizing our assisting platform and internal expertise we have been making progress we are in the market quoting new loans and building up pipeline for our future securitization.
Secondly as previously announced we formed a non-traded REIT named Independence Realty Trust or IRT to acquire a multi-family property.
RAIT additional manager of IRT and we will benefit from this strategy primarily through generating a recurring source of asset and property management fees as well as another revenue to access capital markets to further our strategic goals.
We recently filed IRT’s initial registration statement which can be reviewed on filed with the SEC.
At this point I’d like to turn the call over to Jack.
Jack? Thank you Scott.
Our financial highlights for the quarter ended March 31st 2011 included GAAP earnings per share diluted of 5.8 million or $0.05 per common share for the quarter; 6.9 million or $0.06 per common share diluted of adjusted funds from operations or AFFO; and 7.6 million in net reductions of total debt outstanding this quarter with significant changes at our debt structure since December 31st 2010 which I will cover in just a minute.
Before I begin reviewing the first quarter results I’d like to highlight that we made certain changes in our income statement to improve the presentation for investors and analysts.
We now present the components of revenue broadly.
To include rental income on our owned real estate portfolio interest income on our loan book and fee income from our services.
We have to bind all components of investment and corporate interest expense as one line item under operating expenses.
These changes better reflect our business focus on our lending and direct ownership of real estate and will be reflected to all periods presented going forward.
As Scott mentioned there are changes in RAIT’s business model over the last several year's which have resulted in management using additional metrics to evaluate our financial performance.
RAIT’s increasing direct ownership of real estate and other changes in our portfolios led us to adopt two non-GAAP financial performance measures we are getting this quarter.
Funds from operations or FFO and adjusted funds from operations or AFFO.
We are presenting FFO and AFFO as supplemental non-GAAP performance measures which management uses for internal purposes and that other REIT use in reporting their results.
Management believes that these additional measures can be useful to investors in evaluating RAIT’s operating performance overtime.
And reference is made to exhibit one in the press release for the details of these computation and how management's rationale for presenting this information.
Now on to the first quarter results.
Our consolidated results of operations saw significant improvement this quarter in comparison to the same quarter last year as follows.
Rental income was 21.3 million increasing 5.2 million or over 30% compared to the 16.1 million during the first quarter of 2010.
Related real estate operating expenses increased to 12.6 million or 2.1 million higher than the comparable quarter.
This resulted in higher net operating income of 3.1 million.
Rental growth and increases in real estate operating expenses reflect a growth in occupancy of 71% to 82% since the first quarter of 2010 profit increased the number of owned properties.
Total revenue decreased 7.9 million year-over-year as interest income and fee income in 2010 included results of the collateral assets and manager contracts that we sold in April of 2010.
Compensation expense of 6.5 million is running 1.5 million or 19% lower than in 2011.
And although G&amp;A is in line year-over-year the 2011 quarter includes approximately 300 000 of acquisition expenses related to our purchase of IRT in January.
Otherwise G&amp;A expenses are running approximately 5% lower this year.
As Scott mentioned the continued improvements in our CRE loan portfolio from a credit perspective resulted in lower provisions for loan losses of 1.95 in 2011 compared to 17.35 for the first quarter of 2010.
During this quarter we converted only 22.1 million loan on an office building into owned real estate at approximately 92% of the prior loan carrying value.
Total expenses for the quarter were 56.6 million representing a 22% reduction from the first quarter run rate of 72.5 million in 2010.
And as a result we generated 1.7 million of positive operating income this quarter which has a 7.9 million improvement over the first quarter last year.
Below operating income we generated 1.4 million in gains and asset sales a small loss on refinancing our debt and 5.6 million of income from the changes in fair value of our securities portfolio.
The net fair value mark-to-market adjustment this quarter of 5.6 million was comprised of the three items; 16.5 million of improvements in the credit performance of the underlying debt securities offset by a $7 million increase in the corresponding non-recourse debt and 3.9 million decrease in the interest rate hedge liabilities reflecting changes in long-term interest rates.
Now onto the most significant events for the quarter which Scott alluded to the convertible debt issuance and other debt changes that have occurred since then.
On the convertible debt this is by far the most significant debt change during 2011 and related to the issuance of 115 million of new 7% convertible debt due in 2031 and the [resulting 588] million of the 6.78 convertible debt due in 2027.
We began this year with 143.6 million of that convertible debt outstanding now have approximately 55 million of the 6.78 debts were remaining.
Other debt changes this quarter include the following.
On our secured bank credit facilities at the quarter end we have $20 million of recourse debt on remaining secured bank credit facility which is schedule to mature in December which maybe extended.
We prepaid all 16.2 million on our other secured recourse bank line in March and that have been scheduled to mature in October.
In our senior secured notes we reduced 5.2 million of those notes the equity convergence during a quarter.
And in April we repay the remaining [15.7 million balance] of the 10% senior note due in April of 2014.
This avoided the potential future dilution of approximately 4.5 million common shares which had been reserved in the event that this step over had been converted to equity at the option of the holder.
We regained control of over $21 million of CRE debt securities that has been collateral under this loan agreement.
Finally loan sale on real estate we refinanced a $0.5 million recoursed mortgage loan that due in 2012 is non-recourse financing at a rate of LIBOR plus 450 and extended the maturity for 10 year's thereby further reducing our recourse indebtedness and near-term funding obligations overall.
Now as a result of all of these actions steps we reduced our recourse debt for the quarter by 15.5 million to a balance of 277.9 million at March 31st 2011.
And that result of all of these debt changes will save approximately 1.5 million of interest expense per year.
And our total debt equity ratio also improved to 2.1 times at quarter end compared to a ratio of 2.3 times at December 31st 2010.
Next I will just briefly cover our other portfolios.
Our CRE loan book has about 1.1 billion of loans representing 37% of our consolidated assets and are securitized by long-term max funded non-recourse financing.
The two CRE loans securitization to CRE-1 and CRE-2 are meeting all of their interest coverage and over collateralization requirements and as the most recent payment cycle the most stringent OC test was at 123.7 versus the figure of 116.2 in CRE-1 and at 115 versus the figure of 111.7 in CRE-2 which is an improvement of over 2 percentage points during the quarter.
And CRE owned portfolio about 868 million of assets representing 29% of our consolidated assets.
The overall occupancy has been steadily improving since quarter one 2010.
And has increased from 71% to 82% overall.
However in our multi-family portfolio the assets contributed differently to organic growth of occupancy increasing from 78% to 88% during the same time while real estate operating expense have been lower on a same-store basis.
These trends have been the primary cost for our 3.1 million of improvement in net operating margin performance quarter-over-quarter.
And finally on our debt securities portfolio it represents 24% of our consolidated assets comprised primarily of stocks and other debt securities owned by converter 8 and converter 9.
Both the $719 million of assets and the 143 million of related non-recourse debt financing are reported on the fair value of accounting methods.
Most of the quarterly cash flows are being implied to pay down the most senior debt tranches.
We applied $12 million of cash to reduce the principal balances of these non-recourse debt during the quarter.
We continue to receive only the senior portion of our collateral management fees on this portfolio.
And with that I will turn it back to Scott.
Thanks for that report Jack.
Operator I think we will open the call up for questions at this time.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi with FBR Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys and congratulations on a good quarter.
It seems that portfolio is making nice progress.
Thanks Gabe.
Thanks Gabe.
Couple of questions here first is just regarding the share count how should I think about the fully diluted share count going forward in conjunction with the March convert? Well I think on our fully converted basis there would be approximately 40 million shares that was converted at $2.56 price per share.
Okay.
You guys have a nice chunk of restricted cash what are the opportunities or how should I think about the deployment of that restricted cash into new opportunities kind of the inside RAIT 1 and RAIT 2.
Certainly within RAIT 1 and RAIT 2 we have cash that’s been build up from repayments that are held in those structures that can be used to fund new loans.
The other portion of restricted cash within the Taberna structures basically relates to reserves and other hedge costs that we will have to be in the future.
You guys break out kind of the what percentage of that whatever the number is and I get 170 or so what’s between the RAIT’s and what’s between the Taberna.
It's particularly down but we can get that information for you afterwards Gabe.
Okay.
And then just one more follow-up on that you just talked to the RAIT side of things what do you guys think is the yield pickup you can get as you redeploy that restricted cash today from prepayments relative to what was prepaid.
In other words I’m trying to a gauge for how you can grow earnings inside the structure with that restricted cash.
Gabe this is Scott.
We are primarily looking to do shorter term bridge loans within those vehicles and not to do the subordinated debt financing.
The bridge loans that are rolling off have an average coupon of 200 basis points over LIBOR.
And today you are reporting loans in the 500 over LIBOR.
Okay.
So it's about a 300 basis points pickup.
Got you.
One last question for you you guys mentioned two avenues for growth conduit lending and then independent.
In regards to conduit lending how should I think about or should we think about the pace or originations or the potential pace of originations.
I mean just getting off the ground but how do we think about that going forward.
And I don’t know if you guys have disclosed in your 10 but how should I think about the economics in that JV.
Well the economics change within that space almost on a daily basis as it's spread change and we yield the price.
So it's hard to say what the pricing economics will be going forward.
But on origination flow view we still believe that once it's up and running that we will be able to do in the $500 million a year of new originations in two to three securitizations per year.
And it is just started as you know we really only got off the ground during this first quarter but are actually out there seeking new opportunities in quoting loans and we have a couple of applications that we have issued.
And we are still very hopeful that it's going to be a good source of revenue going forward.
So it's essentially up and running at this juncture.
Yes.
Okay great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Gabe.
At this time I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Well thank you.
We continue to make progress and remain optimistic that we will successfully reposition and rebuild RAIT while staying focused on creating long-term shareholder value.
We like to thank our shareholder for their continued support and interest in RAIT and look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you for joining today’s conference that concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2011 RAIT Financial Trust earnings conference call.
My name is Chris and I will be your conference moderator for today.
Presently all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
At this time I would now like to turn the conference over to your presenter for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav Director of Corporate Communications.
Sir you may proceed.
Thank you Chris and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s second quarter 2011 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Salmon RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 18649139.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I’d like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press releases and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you very much Andres.
I thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s second quarter 2011 results.
We are pleased to report another quarter of progress at RAIT.
I would like to take this time to review some of the key highlights.
We are reporting $4.4 million of operating income our third consecutive quarter of positive operating income.
We are also reporting AFFO of $0.22 per share.
GAAP earnings for the quarter were negative driven by non-cash mark-to-market adjustments of $26 million to our Legacy Taberna portfolios Jack will discuss this in more details shortly.
We received $106 million from loan repayments in asset sales during the quarter.
We originated and funded $52 million in first mortgage loans purchased a $30 million first mortgage loan to $25 million and executed term sheets to fund $32 million in new loans over the next 30 days.
Our newly formed CMBS group structured the sale of approximately $61 million first mortgage loans into a third party CMBS securitization.
The closing originally scheduled for yesterday has been delayed due to S&amp;P’s internal review of the CMBS ratings methodology.
We expect these loans to be sold during the third quarter.
Independence Realty Trust is RAIT’s first non-listed REIT subsidiary.
Independence is focused on acquiring a portfolio of multifamily properties.
During the quarter the SEC declared Independence’s registration statement effective for its issuance of common stock.
Independence is now positioned to begin its capital raising efforts as we seek to enter into selling agreements with Independent broker dealers.
In our owned real estate portfolio we continued to experience positive trends in both occupancy and rental income.
In our loan book we are reporting lower NPLs [ph] and reduced provisions for losses of $950 000 for the second quarter as the portfolio has stabilized.
And as you can see in the press release we continue to pass all of our CRE CDO coverage tests with dramatic improvement in the rate CRE CDO II over collateralization test.
During the quarter we continued the deleveraging process.
We repurchased $16.8 million of our 6.875% [ph] senior convertible notes $6.7 million of RAIT CRE CDO debt and we retired $15.7 million which was the remaining outstanding of our 10% senior secured notes due in 2014.
Our Board authorized a 1 for 3 reversed stock split during the quarter which went into effect after the market closed on June 30 2011.
And lastly RAIT’s Board reinstated its review of the common stock dividend to a quarterly basis and declared a second quarter common dividend of $0.06 per share.
This is the first quarterly common dividends since October of 2008 and its being paid today.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Jack.
Jack? Thank you Scott.
The financial highlights for the quarter ended June 30 2011 include a GAAP net loss of $20.1 million primarily caused by the changes in fair value of our financial instruments and an $8.5 million income or $0.22 per common share of adjusted funds from operations which (Inaudible) $0.03 per share in AFFO over the first quarter of this year.
I’m going to summarize the consolidated results for operations which has shown significant improvement this quarter in comparison to the same quarter last year and on the year-to-date basis as follows.
Rental income of $22.1 million increased $4.4 million or over 25% compared to the $17.7 million during the same quarter in 2010 and it’s up almost $10 million year-to-date.
Rental growth reflects the increase in occupancies from 74% to 83% since the second quarter of 2010.
The related real estate operating expenses in this portfolio of $13.8 million were $400 000 higher this quarter compared to last year as new properties came on stream.
The increases in rent net of these operating costs resulted in $8.3 million of property and operating income which is $4 million higher run rate than in 2010.
Interest expense of $22.3 million for the quarter and $45.7 million year-to-date is running 9% lower than the comparable periods in the prior year.
Since we’ve reduced the aggregate amount of debt outstanding thereby lowering our total borrowing costs.
Compensation expense of $5.7 million this quarter and $12.3 million for the first six months of the year is running $2.6 million or 18% lower year-to-date than in 2010.
G&amp;A expense of $4.4 million is $900 000 lower this quarter versus the second quarter of 2010 and 8% lower on the year-over-year basis despite the incremental costs associated with the acquisition and launch of Independence Realty Trust this year.
Continuing improvements in our CRE loan portfolio from a credit perspective have resulted in lower provisions for loan losses of $2.9 million for the first half of 2011 compared to $24.9 million in the first half of 2010.
During the quarter we converted two multifamily loans into owned real estate.
Total expenses for the quarter are $54.5 million represent a 16% reduction from the second quarter of 2010 of $65.0 million.
As a result we generated $4.4 million of positive operating income this quarter which was the $9 million improvement over the second quarter of last year and for the first six months of 2011 we’ve generated $6.1 million of operating which was a $16.9 million improvement over 2010.
During the second quarter we generated $4.3 million gains on sales of assets and debt extinguishments this year compared to $24.9 million in similar gains for the same quarter of last year.
We also experienced a large change in the net fair value of mark-to-market adjustment this quarter which was the net charge of $25.7 million.
This non-cash amount is comprised of $2.1 million of asset pricing improvements on our Taberna securities offset by a $6.8 million increase in the non-recourse debt financing of these portfolios and further reduced by a $21 million increase in the related interest rate hedges reflecting the high volatility in long-term interest rates that we had experienced recently.
This change in fair value was the primarily cause of a reported GAAP net loss of $20.1 million this quarter.
The change in fair value of these financial instruments impacts the reported GAAP earnings and our FFO which was the non-GAAP measure of operating performance.
However adding back the $25 million non-cash charge together with other adjustments as shown on schedule one of AFFO resulted in AFFO of $8.5 million this quarter and $15.5 million for the first six months of 2011.
Our AFFO per common shares increased each of the past three quarters from $0.15 at 12/31/2010 to $0.19 at the first quarter of this year and $0.22 at June 30.
In comparing the $0.22 of AFFO this quarter to the $0.26 in the second quarter of last year it should be noted that we reported a one-time gain on sales of our management contracts of over $7.6 million in 2010 which contributed significantly to the prior year AFFO.
Turning to our assets our $1.2 billion CRE loan portfolio has continued to perform better and loan product picked up as we received $38 million of loan repayments and funded $52 million of loans this quarter.
As a result our two CRE loan securitizations CRE I and CRE II are meeting all their interest coverage and OC requirements.
And as with the recent payment cycle the most stringent OC test for CRE II was at 123.6% versus a trigger of 116.2% and for CRE II it was at 118.9% versus a trigger of 111.7%.
CRE II has only one $4 million non-performing mezzanine loan outstanding today.
Recently a $20 million mezzanine loan was brought current by the borrower returning it to performing status and thereby dramatically improving our OC test.
The total NPLs [ph] is $94 million are down from $121 million at March 31 2011 and represent 8.1% of the unpaid balance in the CRE loan portfolio.
We have approximately $50 million or 53% of the current NPL [ph] balance available in reserves against any future losses.
In our CRE I portfolio $862 million of assets has increased $58 million during the quarter primarily from the additional of two multifamily assets arising from loan conversions.
And then one transaction we purchased from a third party a $30 million senior first mortgage at a discount and then converted that into our owned real estate.
We have also completed the sales of two multifamily assets this quarter with gross proceeds of approximately $67 million thereby creating new lending liquidity in our CDOs.
Turning to our debt capital we began the year with $143.6 million of our 6.78% [ph] convertible debt outstanding after repurchasing an additional $16.8 million this quarter we now have approximately $38.8 million of this debt outstanding.
During this quarter we also purchased $6.7 million of our CRE CDO non-recourse notes payable which generated gain on debt extinguishment of $4.2 million.
And turning to our bank debt at quarter end we have $19.7 million of recourse debt outstanding on a secured bank credit facility which we expect to refinance during the coming quarter.
In April we prepaid the entire $15.7 million outstanding balance of the 10% senior secured notes that as in April 2014 maturity date.
As a result of these actions we’ve reduced our recourse debt during the quarter by $32.5 million to a caring value of $245.5 million as of June 30 2011.
Our total debt-to- equity ratio was 2.2 times at quarter end compared to a ratio of 2.3 times at December 31 2010.
In the next week we will file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and we also expect to file a new self-registration statement on Form S3 to replace the current self-registration which is expiring.
With that I will turn the call back to Scott.
Thanks Jack.
Operator I think at this time we would like to open the call up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) our first question comes from the line of (Inaudible) from Compass Point.
Ma’am you may proceed.
Hi guys just two quick questions.
With the commercial loan balance the increase in the commercial loan balance this quarter in any way related to the transfer of properties into Independence Realty or the two loan conversions that were completed during the quarter? No it really is a result of the net effect of the loan repayments against the loans that we funded and or repurchased.
Okay thank you.
And then also can you provide the approximate size of the fees generated from the $61 million in commercial loan origination in the CMBS JV? And were they reflected in this quarter’s results? First of all they were not reflected in this quarter results it was a sale that was expected to be consummated I think it was yesterday and we had estimated the gain to be a little over $2 million of course it got caught up in the S&amp;P delaying their ratings for all CMBS issuances.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard (Inaudible).
You may proceed.
Hi guys.
Just a couple of things you mentioned something about a mezzanine loan being paid off that was subsequent to quarter end.
It was no you are referring to the $20 million mezzanine loan that was non-performing.
Right yes.
No that’s a mezzanine loan that did not payoff it’s one where there was an extension being negotiated with the borrower and the senior lender.
And during that extension period the borrower wasn’t paying so the senior loan went into default and our loan accordingly wasn’t paying.
However the extension was ultimately agreed to the borrower brought all of the loans current including errors [ph] and we agreed to extend as well.
And the loan will be kept (Inaudible) forward-looking basis.
So it’s one where it was a non-performing loan but it wasn’t non-performing because of any issue relative to the property.
It was non-performing just because of an extension being worked through between the borrower and the lenders.
Did the borrower come up with more extra fresh cash equity? They did a significant amount they were somewhere in the area of $14 million or $15 million.
Okay so you are I mean that measurably approves your position in the capital stack? Well it’s the new equity coming in behind us and it’s one where we believe all along that the value of the property was in excess of the total debt outstanding anyway.
Okay.
It’s really not non-performing just because of again the non-payment during the negotiation period to the expansion.
That’s good to hear.
Hey I’m sorry I missed a bit of the beginning of the call but is there some kind of apples-to-apples number you got sort of and more sort of looking at your previous quarter in terms of sort of recurring the cash flow basically which would to me mean your NOI from the properties plus cash flow from the securitizations from the CDO’s.
Yeah Richard.
I don’t have a breakdown but I think by evidence of the growth in AFFO you will see this has been reported each of the last year quarters AFFO has increased which I think is a good indicator of growth in cash flow.
But there’s nothing non-recurring in there in AFFO? It’s all on the comparable basis in all quarters that were presented in the same basis.
Okay good enough.
Thank you those are my questions.
Thanks Rick.
You’re welcome.
That was our last question.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Well thanks I would like to summarize by saying that RAIT is making great progress what continuous to be a volatile and uncertain market.
We are experiencing improving credit trends and real estate fundamentals within our portfolios particularly in the multifamily asset class.
And in the near term we will continue to focus our efforts in two strategic directions real estate lending with a focus on bridge and CMBS loans and multifamily acquisitions to our Independence Reality Trust subsidiary.
I’d like to thank you for joining us all today and we look forward to speaking with you again at the end of the third quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you so much for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session (Operator Instructions).
As reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav Director of Corporate Communications.
And you have the floor sir.
Thank you Jeff and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s third quarter 2011 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Salmon RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:30 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 52503337.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press releases and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you very much Andres.
And thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s third quarter 2011 results.
It’s been a busy quarter.
We are pleased to report our fourth consecutive quarter of positive operating income as well $0.23 per share of AFFO which is supported our quarterly common dividend of $0.06 per share.
During the quarter RAIT’s total revenue increased our rent income increase property NOI increased and our occupancy in our own portfolio continues to increase while our provision for losses and non-accrual loans decreased.
Jack will discuss our operating results in more details shortly.
We’ve made significant progress towards reaching our main goals for 2011.
Since the end of the second quarter we retired and were extended $104 million of RAIT’s recourse debt through multiple transactions.
These transactions strengthened RAIT’s balance sheet and cash flows by eliminating our highest cost recourse debt and substantially reducing the recourse debt that matures or can be redeemed within the next four years.
To be clear as of today we have less than $5 million in total debt obligations that are redeemed bulk or mature prior to October 2015.
In addition we completed the sale of $61 million of loans into a third party CMBS securitization and entered into a $100 million facility with the money center bank to warehouse new CMBS eligible loans which we will originate for sale into future CMBS securitizations.
The CMBS business is a natural extension of our core bridge and mezzanine lending platforms.
Also we have $91 million of lending capacity within our existing CRE securitizations and a healthy pipeline of new bridge and mezzanine loans.
And finally at Independence Realty Trust we continue to make progress.
So we are limited on what we can say because Independence has an offering in the market.
We recently executed our first selling agreement with an independent broker dealer.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Jack to run through the details.
Jack? Thank you Scott and good morning.
The financial highlights for the quarter ended September 30 improved the following.
Our GAAP net loss of $21.2 million which was primarily caused by $35 million of net changes in the fair value of our financial instruments this quarter second operating income of $4.1 million as compared to an operating loss of $8.4 million last year for the third quarter.
And third $8.9 million or $0.23 per common share of adjusted funds from operations which is an increase of $0.32 per share over the third quarter last year we have generated positive operating income now for four consecutive quarters.
Moreover the $0.23 of AFFO this quarter represents our fourth consecutive increase in quarterly AFFO.
I’d now like to summarize some of the operating income trends which continued to improve as follows.
Our total revenue has increased with rental revenue of $23.6 million up 28% over the $18.4 million for the third quarter last year.
.Rents grew by approximately $1.5 million compared to the second quarter of 2011 a link quarter with half the increase arising in our office in retail portfolio and the balance in our multifamily portfolio.
Now after deducting real estate operating expenses of $14.5 million we generated $9.1 million of net operating income from our own properties a link quarterly increase of approximately 8%.
Interest expense has decreased by 5.6% compared to the same quarter last year as we continued to reduce our debt outstanding and I’ll cover that more in a minute.
Compensation expense of $6.9 million includes approximately $1.2 million of non-recurring severance costs during the quarter which if excluded would reflect comp expense running approximately 17% below the comparable period last year and also on the year-to-date basis The provision for loan losses has decreased significantly over the last four quarters.
If we combine those quarters they total $5.9 million compared to the $10.8 million of third quarter charges alone in 2010.
Our total non-performance loans are now at $91 million down from a $143 million at September 30 2010.
And they represent approximately 8.6% of the unpaid principle balance in the CRE loan portfolio.
There were no new loans converted in the real estate this quarter and as a result our reserves represent 55% of our current non performing balance compared to 51% a year ago after charged-off approximately $2 million of loans against the reserve this quarter.
During the third quarter we repurchased $15 million of our CRE CDO debt securities at a discount this resulted in a gain on debt extinguishment of approximately $10.5 million.
And we also sold other debt securities this quarter we generated a $1.5 million gain on sales.
The continuing volatility and interest rates has caused about $35 million change in the fair value of our financial instruments.
As long term interest rates fell to record low levels witnessed by the 10 year treasury rate recently falling below 200 basis points.
And certain of our financial declined in value although interest rate has be cross grow significantly.
The recent changes in our debt capital structure had corollary effect on increase in the fair value of rates corporate junior subordinate debt obligations by $18 million.
These pricing movements directly impacted the $21 million GAAP net loss.
I’d like to address some of the debt capital then specifically.
RAIT has improved in debt capital structure significantly repaying high cost debt and short term debt which will reduce the interest carrying costs for the next four years.
Only $4.5 million of recourse debt obligations may arise during this four year time period.
And our next scheduled debt maturity of significance relates to $19 million of the junior subordinated notes due in October 2015.
And by extending our debt maturities we’ve created a window of opportunity of opportunity for RAIT to generate incremental cash flows and raise capital for new investments to invest in our CRE lending business and direct ownership of real estate.
On the six and seven days convertible debt we began the quarter with $38.8 million outstanding.
Subsequent to quarter end we repurchased approximately $34.3 million with the remaining balance still subject to an April 2012 put option.
Our other recourse debt has also been updated.
Secured banks and credit facilities at the end of June had about 19.7 outstanding.
We have renewed our secured bank credit facility by repaying $9 million of principle and many of the terms of the remaining $10.5 million outstanding to improve the following.
A lower interest rate of LIBOR plus 275% which will include monthly principle amortization and thereby extending the overall maturity date to December 2016 five years out.
Our senior secured notes were $43 million at June 30 were prepaid in there entirely.
These are the 12.5% senior secured notes that were due at April 2014.
We also repaid a $7 million real estate loan that had a September 2013 maturity date.
I’d now like to summarize the recent debt exchange transaction.
As previously announced in October RAIT entered to an exchange transaction whereby we issued a new series of senior secured notes aggregating $100 million.
In exchange for a portfolio of senior RAIT bonds CMBS debt securities and other real estate related debt instruments.
All the exchange financial instruments were discounted to an equivalent current fair market value of approximately $80 million essentially equating the effective interest cost from the debt issued to the effective earned on the portfolio such that no gain or loss is occurred.
RAIT will make interest payments at a weighted average rate of 7% and the new notes will mature over an average period of 6.5 years.
The new notes are secured CRE CDO debt instruments which RAIT owns in CRE I and CRE II.
And by pledging these debt securities versus selling them today we believe that RAIT had retained ownership of the collateral and can expect to receive higher recovery value in the future as the CRE CDOs paid down their debt over time.
Now I’d like to address our CRE loan portfolios and relating hedging strategies.
Our $1.1 billion CRE loan portfolio has continued to perform well.
You may recall at the end of the second quarter we had approximately $32 million of availability for funding new loans in these structures.
And during the third quarter we funded $22.1 million of new loans and received $77.9 million of additional loan repayments.
So currently we have approximately $90 million of funding capacity for new loans.
We expect to see increased loan production as loan repayments continue to occur and we are managing our origination pipeline accordingly.
The two CRE loan securitizations CRE I and II continue to meet in all their IC and OC requirements.
And as for the recent payment cycle the most stringent OC test was at 123.7 versus a trigger of $116.2 in CRE I and at $119.1 versus a trigger of $111.7 in CRE II.
Now I’d like to discuss our hedging.
Currently we have approximately $715 million of interest rate hedges outstanding to protect the CRE I and CRE II from adverse interest rate movements.
From inception five years ago we hedged the projected amount of floating rate debt that was exposed to a potential mismatch with our fixed rate assets in the structures by entering in two hedging contracts that slopped the floating rate interest to a fixed rate.
These hedge contracts amortized down overtime based upon on our original estimates of the expected loan repayment cycles.
And as we approach the fifth year anniversary of our initial funding approximately $100 billion of hedges will be fully amortized next month.
We do not need to replace these hedges since we have successfully reinvested fixed rate loans that have been repaid with new floating rate loans.
And the reduction in interest rate costs for the $100 million of expiring hedges will save approximately $400 000 a month beginning in December.
And these savings will float through to our net income and our AFFO.
Given to the ongoing volatility of the both short-term and long-term interest rates we will continue to consider other hedging strategies as necessary for new loans including the CMBS loans although no assurance can be made that such strategies will eliminate volatility in our reported debt results.
Our two subordinate debt securitizations are meeting our IC and OC test requirements and are paying our senior management fees after which all remaining cash flow continues to be redirected to pay down the senior most debt in those structures.
Finally our real estate owned portfolio.
We currently own 48 properties with an aggregate balance of $849 million as of September 30.
A year ago we owned 47 properties with a balance of $818 million.
The year-to-date rental income under this portfolio increased to $67.1 million for the first nine months of this year in comparison to $52.2 million for the same period last year which is a 28% improvement.
The primary drivers of this $15 million increase or increases in average occupancy and rental rate increases are as follows and I’ll go by property type.
The multifamily portfolio currently has an occupancy rate of 89.8% compared to 84.6% a year ago and as average reflective rents of 688 per unit.
The office portfolio has a current occupancy of 68.5% compared to 52.5% a year ago.
And it currently has an effect of ravish rent of $18.93 per square foot.
And the retail portfolio has a current occupancy of 68.9% compared to 57.7% a year ago with an average effect of rent of $8.65 per square foot.
But on an overall basis total occupancy is currently averaging 84.5% compared to 74.8% hoping to drive these results.
And with that I’ll return the call to Scott.
Thanks Jack.
At this time operator I think would like to open the call up for questions.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi with FBR.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys congratulations on a nice third quarter.
Hi Gabe.
Thanks Gabe.
I wanted to get a little color kind of on the – from a macro perspective so to speak.
Scott where are you guys floating new loans and what I’m trying to ask is I want to get an idea of your spread pick up relative to the loans you have in the CDOs that are getting repaid and where you can go reallocate that capital today kind of what that delta is so to speak? Yes Gabe we’re quoting new loans on the bridge business at LIBOR plus 500 with a floor of seven.
And those are typically in the 75% LTB range.
Okay.
And then my….
Excuse me with a point in and a point out as well.
Okay.
How does that compared just to how does that compare relatively speaking that what you’d you know I don’t want to say legacy but stuff that’s already in the CDO or the paper that’s getting repaid? It’s significantly higher.
The paper that is being repaid on the bridge loans typically the loans were originated in late 2005 2006 and into 2007 and the market was much tighter.
So you know at that time we were doing loans of LIBOR plus 250 with floors in the 5% range.
So at a minimum some of them didn’t even have floors of the loans that we were paying off.
So there we have a significant pick up.
But even on the loans it had floors we’re picking up a couple of hundred basis points.
Got you.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then Jack I don’t know if you mentioned this earlier or if I just got call I was writing things down.
Can you talk about any details about the CMBS facility what you can or cannot put on there if there are any restrictions what the cost is etcetera? Sure.
It’s a new facility a $100 million of capacity the cost of funds is LIBOR plus 250.
And it is meant to be used for new originations.
So we will be going to the market creating new CMBS loans for ultimate securitization into the secondary market.
Is there any LTV restriction? We can fund up to 75% loan to value.
Okay.
And again it’s confirming to what the market ought to be look like in terms of the CMBS 2.0 type of loan.
Right right okay.
And Gabe let me add if I may that there are no non-usage fees which was important to us because everyone recognizes that the CMBS market today is somewhat choppy after what we went through with S&amp;P in July and then with you know spreads and interest rate volatility in August and September.
So it’s important to us to have a facility that is not going to cost us a lot while we were you know waiting for the market to settle down.
Okay.
That leaves me to my last question.
Has anything you know over the tone in the markets have obviously gotten better in the last call it two weeks three weeks maybe maybe that three weeks is stretching it.
But have you seen anything anecdotally in broad CMBS win that gives you a reason to believe that maybe the I won’t say the default that we had the free so to speak in the third quarter maybe melting a bit though I’m just curious I don’t I’m just.
Yes yes we are.
We’re seeing a lot of opportunities.
Borrowers are still a little leery of CMBS loans because of what happened in the summer.
But we’re seeing a lot of opportunities we had what I would view is a very good strong pipeline meeting as recently as yesterday.
And we’re putting our quotes.
You know a lot of it will depend on you know the closings to come up and how the next securitization is accepted in the market.
Right.
And no we really won’t know you know that the fall is really over until that happens.
One last follow up on those kind of let’s call it 75 LTV CMBS loans what are you guys quoting ballpark there? You mean as far as spread? Yeah.
400 over the corresponding.
Got you okay.
Perfect.
Thank you so much guys.
Congratulations.
Thanks Gabe.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amy DeBone with Compass Point Research &amp; Trading.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Hi Amy.
Hi.
Can you give any progress on I know that you said that there is an offering outstanding that you can’t say much.
But can you give any progress on Independence Realty? Well as I’m sure you are aware the SEC and spend are low as I was talking about the deal when they are offering materials they have their wealth there.
But I will tell you that we are on schedule.
We always thought that we would have our first selling agreement signed in the fourth quarter which is where we’re at.
And we’re looking forward to a very active 2012.
Great.
And can you explain what drove the improvement in the OC test for RAIT II this quarter? Sure.
There is only one default loan in CRE II same as it was I think towards the end of last quarter its $4 million of this loan.
So the credit side is very strong.
And I think from recycling of capital loans that are going in probably of a slightly higher interest factored to them.
So we’re getting better results on the interest coverage test.
Okay great.
And will the debt exchange that was done in October impact the OC cushion at all or the corresponding CDO? Yes.
It will impact it slightly.
But I will tell you that there is lots of way to go before it would be corrected.
Okay.
It impacts it positively.
Great.
Both the interest coverage and the OC test but not to the point where it’s cured or anything.
Okay.
And then RAIT 1 reinvestment NDA comes next month.
Is there anything you can do to maintain the OC cushion after the reinvestment mandate is over aside from loan conversions? And then in addition to that do you see any more loan conversions coming from the RAIT 1 portfolio? Well at this time we’re managing the portfolio we believe appropriately.
I will tell you that that portfolio has a higher percentage of mezz loans and subordinated debt positions than our second portfolio which means that those loans do not pay off as frequently especially because of the turmoil that we’re just going through for the past few years.
It’s much harder for borrowers to refinance to a level to retire that type of subordinated debt.
So while you know those loans that we’re carrying or performing which is why we still have the cushion within the OC test.
We don’t anticipate those paying off any time soon which is a good thing.
But we will continue to manage the portfolio as appropriate.
Okay great.
That’s all my questions.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you Amy.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Gonick with Senvest.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
If you look at all the non-recurring items the severance the hedges that are going to save on interest expense.
What do you kind of look at your adjusted FFO being kind of normalized after you know after taking those things into consideration? Well you hit two of them on the head Brian the comp just owns the non-recurring item because related some severance.
And our run rate has been pretty consistent on comp throughout the year other than that item if the third quarter.
The hedge the hedge savings on just the next to occur amortized hedge will be about $1.2 a quarter $400 000 a month.
And that will be continuous you know because that isn’t being replaced it doesn’t need to be replaced.
Right.
And then if we factored in reinvestment and better spreads I mean it looks to me like you’re approaching $0.30 per share in adjusted FFO.
So I’m wondering now that you’ve resolved really all the debt maturity issues have you given a thought to buying back stock given as trading is like four times AFFO? Yes we have given thought to that.
And currently I will tell you that we discussed it every quarter with our board.
And up until now we have always been focused as you can tell within our – to payback our debt with the repayments and maturities that were coming to in the short term.
So we will continue to discuss it.
And as cash permits if the stock price is still trading at what values or levels that we believe are well below real value.
I think the board would have a positive reaction going forward.
Great thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the question and answer portion of our event.
I’d now like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Thanks Jeff.
As a final thought I just liked to say that 2011 has been a successful year for RAIT.
We’ve now turned the corner our near term debt maturities are behind us.
We have new agreements and relationships in place to grow the business.
And we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in the market.
Thanks for joining us.
We look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of today’s conference.
(Operator Instructions) As reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference to Mr.
Andres Viroslav Director of Corporate Communications you may proceed.
Thank you Jasmine and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s fourth quarter and fiscal 2011 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Salmon RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11:30 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 88426369.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press releases and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you very much Andres and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s 2011 results.
It’s for the productive quarter and year for RAIT.
We are pleased to our fifth consecutive quarter of positive operating income and AFFO of $0.30 per share.
In January RAIT paid its third consecutive regularly quarterly common dividend of $0.06 per share.
In the fourth quarter we received approximately $80 million in loan repayments we ended the year with approximately $110 million of lending capacity available to reinvest into our core loan products such bridge loans and mezzanine loans and we have $250 million of line capacity to finance our CMBS eligible loans.
During the quarter we sold $61 million of CMBS loans to a third-party securitization which resulted in the gain of $2.9 million.
We also recently hired an experienced loan originator and two new underwriters to speed our origination efforts and our pipeline of lending opportunities continues to grow it currently totals approximately $500 million.
Credit quality within our loan book remains stable as credit costs have remained low and we’ve continued to see reductions in the number of loans on non-accrual.
In our directly owned real estate portfolio we’ve experienced growth in both rental income property net operating income driven by higher rental rates mainly in our multifamily portfolio while coupled with lower property operating costs.
Our multifamily property manager Jupiter Communities has been increasing rental rates within the stabilized multifamily properties in the portfolio which results in a slight reduction in occupancy rate but higher net operating income.
We expect to see our occupancy rates increase during the year once the market digests these higher rental rates.
And Jack will discuss our operating results in more detail shortly.
We reached our debt reduction goals for 2011 during the year we refinanced or paid off $250 million of RAIT’s recourse debt to multiple transactions and as of today we’ve less than $3.6 million in recourse debt obligations that are redeemable or mature prior to October 2015.
And finally I’d like to comment about RAIT’s common dividend.
RAIT generated $30 million in depreciation cost in 2011 and ended the year with $52 million of NOLs.
For re-compliance purposes we’re not required to pay a dividend however the improvements in both our balance sheet and operating results along with the slowing improving macroeconomic environment gives us confidence that market challenges rate previously faced are now behind us and the potential for growth is in front of us.
We believe shareholders should benefit from these improvements.
At this point I’d like to turn the call over to Jack to provide more details on our results.
Jack? Thank you Scott.
The financial highlights for the quarter ended December 31 include a GAAP net loss of $15.6 million primarily caused by $20 million of net changes in the fair value of our liability financial instruments.
Operating income of $4.3 million is compared to $1.9 million last quarter or the fourth quarter of 2010 and adjusted funds from operations of $12 million was $0.30 per common share.
This is an increase of $0.14 per share over the fourth quarter last year.
We’ve generated positive operating income and quarterly increases in AFFO for five consecutive quarters.
I’d now like to comment on our operating income trends which continue to improve as follows.
We have rental revenue of $24.8 million this quarter which is up over 23% from $20.2 million in the fourth quarter last year.
Rents grew by $1.2 million compared to the third quarter 2011 mostly as result of rate increases which more than offset slightly low occupancy levels at year end.
After deducting real estate operating expenses of $14.3 million we generated $10.5 million of net operating income from our own properties a link quarter increase of 16% or $1.4 million of additional property NOI.
Interest income was $30.8 million down by $2.8 million from the third quarter of 2011 as I see every loan portfolio experience some timing differences between when loans are repaid and the funding of new loans.
And as Scott indicated we expect to deploy our available funds during first quarter at higher interest spreads which will restore or interest income levels.
Interest expense of $21.3 million decreased by $1.2 million compared to the fourth quarter last year and by over $7 million for the year as a whole as we achieved significant reductions in our total debt outstanding.
Compensation expense of $4.8 million was $2.2 million lower than the fourth quarter of 2010 and ran at a rate of 16% low on a year-over-year basis.
Our provision for loan losses has decreased significantly during 2011 with a total provision this year of $3.9 million as compared to $38.3 million for the last year due to the significant improvements in non-performing loans this year.
Our total non-accrual loans were $54 million down from a $122 million at year end December 31 2010 representing 5.7% of the unpaid principal balance in the CRE loan portfolio.
The current reserves represent 75% of our remaining non-performing loans compared to 51% coverage of our non-performing loans a year ago.
The continuing volatility and interest rates has caused us $75 million net decrease in the changed fair value of our financial expense contributing to a $51 million GAAP loss for 2011.
The change resulted from three components.
First improvements of $19 million in the fair value of our investments in securities second offset by a $35 million pricing upticks in the fair value of our debt obligations and third $59 million increases in the fair value of our interest rate hedges as long term interest rates fell to relatively low levels that last year.
It is important to note that although these fair value changes affect of our reported GAAP earnings there is no cash or economic impact on our operating business since the CDO debt is non recourse to rate.
Next I’d like to talk about our investments in our assets under management.
Our CRE loan portfolio has approximately billion dollars in loans which is primarily financed by CRE CDOs I and II.
CRE I reached the end of a three investment period in November last year.
RAIT owns approximately $244 million of the total capital structure including all of the $200 million of double B debt and residual equity.
All future principal repayments were amortized to debt in order seniority and at December 31 there were $90 million of defaulted loans in this portfolio.
CRE I is meeting all of its IC and OC covenant requirements with the most stringent overcollateralization test currently at 127.4% versus a requirement of 116.2%.
CRE II continues to receive loan repayments that could be re-invested in new loan originations through June of 2012.
RAIT loans $247 million of the total capital structure including all the $141 million of double B debt and residual equity.
At December 31 there is one $4 million defaulted mezzanine loan in this portfolio so CRE II is meeting all of its IC and OC tests with the most stringent OC test currently at 119.1% versus requirement of 111.7%.
During the fourth quarter we received $80 million of loan repayments rating the total for the year to $206 million.
We also funded $25 million of new loan and a $104 million of new loans for the whole year.
Next our debt securities portfolio the total investment in the two consolidates to burn the CDOs is $320 million which represents both preferred equity and various loans of debt positions that we own.
Approximately 75% of the investments are in the form of TruPS and TruPS related receivables issued by corporate real estate companies.
The typical TruPS instrument is a secured corporate borrowing with a 30-year maturity and a five year no call provision that prevented prepayments.
Now beginning in 2012 the no call provision starts to expire and the corporate borrowers will have the options to prepay these instruments.
Given that historically low interest rate environment in comparison to when the collateral was originated five years ago together with strengthening corporate balance sheets we expect some of the Trust borrowers will elect like to prepay their loans.
We will use those proceeds to repay the most senior tranches of the non-recourse debt in these securitizations.
And although we continue to receive our quarterly senior management fees all remaining cash flow from interest proceeds is being further directed to pay down the most senior debt each quarter.
In subordinated A we owned $40 million of lower trans debt and $93 million of the double B and preferred equity positions.
At year end subordinated A had over $80 million of restricted cash which is now reduced to pay down the senior debt tranches in 2012 to approximately $260 million from an original balance of $375 million.
If the TruPs issue has exercised the prepayment options it will accelerate prepayments of TAs non-recourse liabilities which are carry of less than par and there will be incremental non-cash charge to GAAP earnings as a result.
TA currently has six defaulted investment securities with an unpaid balance of $54 million and as a result it’s failing of its OC and IC interest coverage tests.
In T9 we owned $89 million of lower tranche debt and $97 million of the double B in preferred equity positions.
The most senior tranches in non-recourse debt in T9 have been paid down to approximately $298 million from the original of $375 million primarily from collateral repayments and redirected net interest proceeds.
Similar to G9 any trust prepayments will have a course by the noncash charge to GAAP earnings upon the repayment of T9’s non-recourse debt.
G9 currently has 15 defaulted investment securities with an nonpaid balance of approximately $128 million and as a result it is failing all the OC and IC coverage tests.
Turning to our own real estate we own 56 properties with an aggregate balance of $892 million at year end with 62% of it in multifamily 25% in office and 13% in retail and other asset types.
A year ago we owned 47 properties for the balance of $839 million.
Our 2011 total rental income was $92 million in comparison to $72 million last year which is a 26% increase.
Now the primary drivers of this increase in addition to new properties owned are improvements in average occupancy and higher effective renovates as follows.
In the multifamily portfolio occupancy at the year end was 88.5% up from 85.5% a year ago and effective average rents were $681 per unit compared to $664 per unit a year ago.
In the office portfolio occupancy is 69.2% up from 67.8% last year and effective average rents were $20.85 per square foot compared to $18 per square foot in 2010.
In the retail portfolio occupancy is now at 68% compared to 58.8% a year ago with effective rents at $9.73 per square foot compared to rents of $9.40 a year ago.
Overall our occupancy is at 83.6% compared to 79.2% in 2010.
We’ve improved our debt capital structure significantly during 2011 by refinancing or repaying $250 million of short-term high cost and most of the recourse debt.
Overall these changes have the net effect to reducing our interest carrying costs for the next four years.
At year end there are $77 million of remaining hedge obligations in CRE I and II and $95 million remaining hedge obligations to burn 8 and 9.
We expect scheduled reductions in our interest rate hedges as the securitizations begin to unwind.
As the hedges are amortized further in 2012 we expect to derive annualized interest expense savings of approximately $5 million as a result of AFFO and cash flow to rate.
During the quarter we had $38.8 million of our six and seven A’s convertible debt outstanding which is now $3.6 million subject to an April 2012 put option.
In October we prepaid the entire $43 million of the 12.5% senior secured notes that previous had an April 2014 maturity date.
And during the fourth quarter we borrowed 1726 million on a non-recourse basis at a loan-to-value ratio of 65% for a multifamily property owned by IRT.
This financing was provided through Fannie Mae at a fixed interest rate of 3.7%.
We ended the year with $30 million of available cash and cash equivalents and we’ve $239 of restricted cash balances including the following.
A $152 million in CRE I and II which are set aside for funding existing and future loan commitments $84 million into burn 8 9 which is used to pay down the senior debt tranches and no securitizations in 2012 and $43 million borrowers escrows for real estate taxes insurance and debt serves reserves in our CRE loan portfolio that concludes my remarks.
Thank you Jack.
Much has changed at rate over the past year so I think it’s important to summarize how we see the company today and how we see the company going forward.
RAIT is a vertically integrated real estate company focused primarily on lending investing and managing commercial real estate assets.
Today we have two primarily portfolios $996 million portfolio of commercial real estate loans and an $891 million portfolio of directly owned real estate.
These portfolios are largely secured by cash flow in multifamily small office and neighborhood retail properties.
Our internal capabilities include loan originations property acquisitions asset management due diligence underwriting legal loan servicing and property management.
These integrated disciplines allow us to manage and service our existing portfolios as well as source underwriting close new opportunities.
Looking forward our plan is to capitalize on RAIT’s existing scalable platform and focus on the origination of bridge mezzanine and CMBS loans.
We’ve a awesome pipeline of opportunities and expect to close approximately $100 million of new loans during this first quarter of 2012.
Our current plan is to fund new bridge and mezz loan production through our existing securitization capacity and to fund our CMBS pipeline through our new Barclays Capital and Citibank warehouse facilities.
We are also actively pursuing alternative ways to expand and finance the origination platform going forward.
Our plan also includes growing our portfolio of multifamily properties utilizing our sponsorship of a non-traded REIT independent reality trust or IRT.
We’ve recently begun the capital raising stage at IRT and are happy to report that we’re in the final stage of the due diligence with two independent broker dealers representing more than 12 500 advisors.
In addition eight independent broker dealer firm so there are over 11 000 advisors have began their due diligence on IRT.
We initially hired two people to support this IRT initiative.
The Vice President of Acquisitions who will focus on sourcing multifamily acquisitions and our broker dealer subsidiary independent realty securities hired an Executive Vice President and Director of Business Development to assist with the capital raise.
We do the non-traded REIT industry as an area where RAIT can utilize its expertise and capabilities to build an attractive cash flowing portfolio for IRT shareholders while generating recurring fee income for RAIT shareholders.
Operator at this time I think we should open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question will come from the line of Gabe Poggi with FBR you may proceed.
Hi good morning guys nice job in the fourth quarter.
Scott I kind of had a high level question kind of as you look at in the 2012 you guys mentioned you have $110 million of approximate available financing for re-investment in bridge and mezzanine loans $250 million in the CMBS side of those two businesses where do you think the opportunities best kind of rate now.
The CMBS side of things or bridge/mezz investing? Gabe I think there is opportunities in both areas however I will tell you that our pipeline of bridge and mezz opportunities is growing more quickly and is larger than the pipeline for CMBS right now it’s about $300 million for bridge and mezz and slightly under $200 million for CMBS.
CMBS had what we are seeing has had a slow start the hiccup in the fourth quarter of 2011 but there are lot of maturities coming down the pike performance in the real estate sector is better.
So we do see a lot of opportunity there but to answer your question today there is more opportunity in the bridge and mezz space.
Can you just remind me where you guys are rating those bridge/mezz loans from a spread perspective? Bridge loans are in the 450 to 500 over with floors the floating rate with floors of 6.5 to 7 point in and point out.
Mezz is really anywhere from 10 to 13 depending on the location and where you are in the capital stat.
Okay great that’s helpful thanks guys.
Your next question will come from the line of Amy DeBone with Compass Point Research &amp; Trading please proceed.
Hi good morning congrats on a great quarter.
Thanks Amy.
Can you talk a little bit about what are the decline in commercial loan portfolio and how to think about the run rate going forward are new originations expect to ramp up going forward compared to this quarter or what are you seeing there? The decline is on a quarter-over-quarter basis is solely due to repayments where we were carrying at the end of the year a fair amount of cash because loans prepaid in the fourth quarter and there’s a timing difference.
It takes us a little bit of time it’s actually originating close new loans to get that money out.
We’ve always been very conscious of matching up our available funds to our pipeline so we don’t want to be ahead of ourselves and have funding obligations until we know that cash is available.
So the cash comes in it takes us a couple of months to get it back out and we had a fair amount of repayments at the end of the fourth quarter.
Okay great.
And were there any loan conversions completed this quarter? Yes Amy.
We had two loans that were converted into real estate for the quarter approximately $60 million of value.
Okay and then last question what showed the increase in the OC margin and CRE CDO I? Well we’re happy to report that lot of nonperforming loans has decreased significantly during the last quarter.
So were down to $19 million of defaulted loans that helps improve the overall tests.
Okay so they are just filtering there okay great that was very helpful.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Gonick with Senvest please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Hi So with the $100 million of loans that you’ve in the pipeline expect to close this quarter will those all be essentially reinvestments in REIT II? Yes there is a couple of CMBS loans small CMBS loans in that amount.
But about $85 million of it is REIT II.
So when you look at the pipeline of $500 million the $300 million would be I presume lot of that would be reinvestment in REIT II is that right? Yes.
Now recognize that you don’t always close 100% of your pipeline.
Of course.
We close about 30% of it.
And remind me how much is maturing this year in REIT II? I don’t have that number off hand that’s something that we’ll be happy to get together for you and provide you after the call.
What you think is the amount of CMBS loans that you can sort of produce on a quarterly basis and do you think that some of the source of those loans might come out of your out of RET I &amp; II? We think comfortably that we’ll do once we fully ramp it up to $75 million a quarter that’s really where at this point I’m comfortable so that we don’t get out and again ahead of ourselves and we think that with the lines that we have in place with about $75 million will then contribute it and then do it again and we are hoping to turn it each quarter.
We have had and will continue to have opportunities within RAIT’s existing bridge portfolio.
We are in constant contact with all of our borrowers and they are well aware of the fact that we can provide permanent financing when they seek it.
So the answer to that question is yes some of them will come from our existing bridge pipeline.
Got it great.
So turning now to the real estate you own on the multifamily side your occupancy levels have been fairly consistent in the high 80s where do you think you can get that this year when you look at sort of public apartment reach they’ve much higher occupancy levels? Well we remember that this portfolio is not totally stable at this point.
So our stabilized properties are in the low to mid 90s and actually some of them are in high 90s which I feel that those ranks should be pushed further brining occupancy down a little bit.
But we think on a stable basis that this portfolio will also be in the low to mid 90s like the other multifamily REIT.
So how long does that process take do you think? Its really a negative process running it’s got alluded I mean we are looking at rank growth across all the properties in our portfolio and as you achieve that rank growth you may have sacrificed little bit of occupancy then you rebuild the occupancy and you’ve got locked in for the next twelve months and its really a negative process that we’ve monitor it week to week literally in terms of what rank goes for putting into the marketplace.
But would you expect that by the end of this year you would exit the year at a higher occupancy level than you are today? Most likely because I think we have a lot of rent growth in the last six months of last year so we will start seeing this stability in this year.
Great on the $5 million of interest expense savings you referenced for 2012 relative to 2011 how much of that did we see in Q4? It’s a very small portion of that had occurred in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Okay.
It’s $100 million and probably it’s 5 less than $100 million.
Okay.
You said the $7 million of total or 5? Are you talking about the forward savings or –? Yes the forward savings and I thought you said that it would be $5 million of interest expense savings in 2012? I thought you are asking about the interest expense we have in 2011.
No no no.
For 2012 that savings will occur as the hedge obligations are paid down sequentially over the year so the first quarter will be smallest and the last quarter will be the largest.
Okay but that will be over the course of this year and there was none of that happened in Q4? I think we had a couple of $100 000 of affect in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
How much CDO fee income did you recognize in cash that you did not recognize on the income statement with lasting consolidation? Well probably you are taking about the management fee? Yes It’s probably about $500 000 to $600 000 on a quarterly basis.
Can you reason why you wouldn’t flow that into AFFO? We don’t spec out as we reconcile it different so we were earning it we’re just not reporting it because it’s get eliminated in consolidation.
Right okay great.
That finishes my questions.
Thank you.
And at this time we have no further question I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Well thanks everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to 2012 and speaking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I'll be your coordinator for today.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference Mr.
Andres Viroslav Director of Corporate Communications.
You may proceed.
Thank you Jasmine and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s first quarter 2012 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer and Jack Salmon RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11:30 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 20606750.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres.
And thanks to all of you for joining us on our call today.
We had mixed results this quarter.
We are reporting a GAAP loss resulting from a $109 million noncash charge.
And yes I want to emphasize noncash charge due to the change in the carrying value of our Taberna debt.
Jack will provide more detail on this charge shortly.
Our AFFO was up $0.02 per share year-over-year but lower by $0.09 per share on a linked quarter basis driven by two factors.
First new loan fundings occurring late in the quarter and second no gains from the sale of CMBS loans during the first quarter.
Looking forward we expect interest income to rebound in the second quarter as we receive the full benefit of loans that closed later in the first quarter and the additional benefit of loans closing in the second quarter.
Year-to-date we've closed $81 million of bridge and mezzanine loans and we have signed term sheets in house for another $100 million of bridge loans that we expect to close before the end of the second quarter.
In our CMBS business after a slow start due to market turmoil last fall we have closed or have signed applications for nine CMBS loans representing $65 million of funding and we continue to see good opportunities for growth in this platform.
We expect to fund and sell CMBS loans into securitizations in both the second and third quarters of this year.
The recent capital raise of approximately $35 million provided sufficient capital to collateralize our warehouse facilities for future CMBS production and to fund mezzanine loan opportunities while bridge loans continue to be funded through our existing securitization.
To date we have invested $19 million of this capital and will invest the remaining capital into identified CMBS loans that will close later this quarter.
Our portfolio of directly held real estate continues to improve.
Rental income as well as occupancy and NOI continued to move up in our properties.
Again Jack will provide more details shortly.
In our non-traded REIT initiative we continue to make progress regarding the offering of our multifamily focused non-traded equity REIT named Independence Realty Trust.
While IRT has not yet commenced raising investor capital we now have signed pre-selling agreements representing approximately 600 financial advisors and are in due diligence with another 12 broker dealers representing approximately 17 000 financial advisors.
This process has clearly been slower than anticipated but we continue to make progress.
And finally we've experienced enough positive developments within RAIT's portfolios and stabilized RAIT's balance sheet to the point where we have increased the common dividend to $0.08 per share in the first quarter of 2012 and we are comfortable providing dividend guidance for the balance of 2012.
At this time we expect to continue to declare quarterly dividends on our common shares of at least $0.08 per share for each quarter remaining in 2012.
And at this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jack.
Thank you Scott.
The financial results for the quarter ended March 31 include a GAAP net loss per share diluted of $107 million or $2.42 per common share and $9.3 million or $0.21 per common share of adjusted funds from operations generated during the quarter.
This compares to $6.9 million or $0.19 per common share of AFFO in the first quarter last year.
As we reported during our year-end 2011 earnings call in February over $80 million of restricted cash of the Taberna CVO was used to pay down the most senior rated tranche of nonrecourse debt.
That debt was paid down at par even though under FAS 159 accounting they had been carried at a fair value dollar price of 17.
The pay down triggered two debt re-pricing impacts.
First a $67 million fair value adjustment for the February repayment by itself.
And second an incremental upward fair value adjustment of $42 million on the remaining Taberna VIII and Taberna IX consolidated nonrecourse debt at quarter's end which together amounted to the $109 million net change in fair value adjustment to equity.
This noncash fair value adjustment caused the GAAP net loss for the first quarter.
Although we do not see any significant prepayments of the Taberna assets this quarter we anticipate that asset repayments will likely occur over the next several years.
As cash becomes available in Taberna VIII and IX there will be repayments of the related debt in order of seniority.
Additional fair value adjustments are likely to occur which will cause GAAP charges and reductions in our consolidated equity.
Turning to our first quarter results.
Our consolidated results of operations reflect the 100% increase in operating income to $3.4 million for the first quarter in comparison to $1.7 million for the same quarter last year as follows.
Our rental income was $24.8 million which increased $3.5 million or 16% compared to the $21.3 million during the first quarter of 2011.
The increase is attributed to $2.1 million of rental income from 10 properties acquired over the last 12 months and $1.3 million of improvements in occupancy and rental rates during that time.
Real estate operating expenses increased to $13.8 million from $12.6 million related to the new properties acquired.
We expect to see continued growth in rental rates in excess of inflationary increases in the operating expenses.
This trend resulted in the higher property net operating income of $2.3 million between the first quarters of 2012 versus 2011.
Total revenue decreased $4 million year-over-year as our average investments in loans and securities were lower by approximately $220 million.
The primarily components of the changes include the following.
Principal repayments of $225 million of loans $74 million of securities $93 million of loans that were converted into own real estate during this time and this was offset by $171 million of new loans funded during the last 12 months.
Turning to our operating expenses.
Interest expense of $19.3 million has decreased from $23.4 million an 18% reduction due to the efforts over the last year to reduce our recourse debt to a balance of $172.5 million at March 31.
We expect to continue to pay down our debt obligation systematically in the future to reduce the debt leverage in our lines of business.
Compensation expense of $5.7 million was reduced by $800 000 which is 12% lower than last year.
G&amp;A expense of $3.8 million is lower by $1.1 million as we continue to achieve more cost efficiency in our operating platform.
The decrease includes $300 000 of nonrecurring acquisition expenses last year.
Continuing improvements in our CRE loan portfolio from a credit perspective have resulted in lower provision for loan losses of $500 000 in 2012 compared to $2 million in 2011.
There were no loan conversions during the first quarter of this year.
Our total operating expenses for the quarter were $50.9 million representing a 10% reduction from the first quarter 2011 run rate of $56.6 million.
We also generated $1.6 million in gains on buying back $2.5 million of our CRE II debt as compared to a $500 000 loss on REIT finance (ph) corporate debt last year.
Including this transaction we have repurchased a total of $112 million of CRE bonds for a cumulative cost of $24 million and we now have a total investment in CRE I and II of $493 million.
In or CRE loan portfolio there's $1 billion of loans outstanding representing 35% of our consolidated assets.
These are securitized by long-term match funded nonrecourse financing.
Our two CRE loan securitization CRE I and II are meeting all their IC and OC tests as they have done continuously.
As of March 31 2012 the most stringent OC test was 126.3% versus a trigger of 116.2% in CRE I and was at 116.1% versus a trigger of 111.7% in CRE II.
Our CRE owned portfolio has $887 million of assets representing 31% of our consolidated total.
Occupancy has been steadily improving since Q1 2011 and has increased from 82% to 85% overall as described in the press release.
In addition to increases in occupancy across our three primary asset categories of multifamily office and retail we have achieved growth in average rental rates in all three as well.
These trends have been the primary reason for the improvements in property level NOI operating margin and AFFO performance as reported this quarter.
Thanks Jack.
I think at this time operator we'd like to open the call up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And you have a question on the line from Mr.
Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
You may proceed.
Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Morning Jason.
Could you go back through Scott the CMBS origination business.
I tried to write those numbers down quickly.
And as I understand it no loans were sold.
But of that $72.2 million originated was any of that for the CMBS business? No.
I was talking about bridge and mezz loans that were funded in the first quarter there.
We have closed two CMBS loans and we have another seven or eight that are under application with deposits up and are in the closing process.
And that represents the $65 million that we will close hopefully during the second quarter but sometimes these things drag on.
And those loans are all scheduled and are being contributed into securitizations that are coming up.
One later in the second quarter and loans that don't get closed in time will go into one that's now scheduled for the third quarter.
Okay.
Okay.
That's perfect.
And I'm guessing transactions have come with increasing frequency and it looks like at tighter spreads.
So in terms of economics to you as the originator would they be similar to what you saw in the fourth quarter? Or are you seeing a little bit more competition and that's coming down? I think they'll be similar to where they were in the fourth quarter.
There is clearly more competition.
We're focusing on the smaller transactions where we think the profitability will be greater and there is less competition clearly in the smaller loan arena.
And yes you're right.
Spreads have tightened but recently with the Maiden Lane transaction they've gapped out a little bit.
So we're very comfortable with where spreads are at the moment and how we're pricing our loans.
Okay.
And then on the reserve.
It looks like the reserve continues to come down.
And I was wondering if you could just tell us how you think about where that should stabilize in terms of what the credit of this business looks like today? I know that can change over time but if you just held credit constant today where are you comfortable with reserves?  Thank you Jason.
The reserves have come down significantly year-over-year.
We had approximately $120 million of loans nonperforming loans a year ago.
And that's been cut almost in half to $56 million today.
Our reserves were 10.5% of the loan balances in total and now they're 5.7%.
That percentage has held constant since the fourth quarter.
So we're very comfortable with the level of reserves.
We're covering about 63% of the nonperforming loan balance with reserves and we think we'll be able to maintain that level as evidenced by the stable loan provision as well.
Okay.
And is there any correlation between the reserve and loan conversions? Well when we have had loan conversions typically it's our assets that may have been on reserve because of their lack of performance nonperforming status.
And the reserve to be applied in revaluing that loan into owned real estate.
So lack of any conversion this quarter is there was no charge-offs for that purpose.
Okay.
One last question and then I'll let other people ask their questions.
It does look like you're making some progress.
I know one of the things you've talked about is increasing occupancy and then raising rents.
And it looks like you're making some progress.
I just wanted to know if you could give us some more color on where you're seeing success in that and where you think it could go? Well again thanks for the question.
We're happy to report that occupancy is increasing in all of our asset types and I think the multifamily being the largest sector 2% increase across 8 000 units is a pretty significant movement.
At the same time we have been pushing rents and rents are up around 2.5% for the quarter.
We would hope to be able to continue that type of revenue trajectory over the course of the year.
It's slow and it's small bite-size pieces certainly on the multifamily side of it.
It's a homogonous pool of units.
On the office and retail we've had good leasing activity through the quarter and those leases are coming on stream as we head into the second quarter of this year.
So we're seeing both stabilized occupancy and increasing rent per foot as new leases are signed.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Gonick with Sunvest Capital.
You may proceed.
Good morning.
Can you tell us how many points do you expect to make on the CMBS loan that you're selling here in Q2? And what do you think that level of gain is going to be into Q3 and going forward? Well obviously it will depend on where the market is when the deals price.
But we still believe that there's four to five points in the CMBS loans that we're closing.
And I would anticipate that of the $65 million that I referred to that probably a third of that give or take will go in the second quarter and the balance will be in securitization in the third quarter.
And you have some interest rate hedges rolling off I think again this year.
Can you quantify that and when you expect that will hit? Sure.
The interest rate hedges I think you're referring to are in our CRE portfolio.
We expect to have about $45 million of the hedges burn off over the course of the year.
Some of that hits in the middle of the summer and a lot of it hits in the fourth quarter.
Our projected interest savings as a result of those hedges burning off is about $2.2 million on an annualized basis.
$2.2 million annualized.
Correct.
And you said that's going to be in Q2? Well they happen every month Brian as contracts burn off.
And some of them are tied to the quarterly times when the debt was paying down as well.
Right.
And how much cash do you have in RAIT I and II now to reinvest.
The reinvestment period ends I guess in Q2 right in RAIT II.
And what is your ability to even when that period ends to continue to extend some of the loans that are in RAIT I and II? Sure.
We have approximately $82 million at March 31 available to reinvest in the CRE II.
The reinvestment period ends on June 25 and loans will either need to be funded or committed by that date to invest those proceeds which we expect to do.
In terms of the extensions (inaudible) in all of our structures have extension rights.
And those extension rights could be exercised by the borrower if we have to honor those extension requirements.
And can you modify the terms in order for them to extend? Like can you make it attractive for them to want to extend? Well they probably got an attractive term when they originated the loan.
So we can't modify the terms of the loans that have built in extension rights.
Just follow the contract as they exist.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Brian.
Thanks Brian.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the call to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
And we look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ann and I will be your coordinator for today’s call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposed.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
If you require assistance at any time during the call please press star followed by zero and an operator will be very happy to assist you.
We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session following the presentation.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr.
Andres Viroslav Vice President Director Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Thanks and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to our RAIT Financial Trust second quarter 2012 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11.00 am Eastern Time today.
The dial in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 431-317-37.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press releases and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres.
And thank you all for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report solid results for the second quarter as we benefit from growth in both our loan book and owned-real estate portfolios.
AFFO rose to $0.25 per share an increase of $0.04 per share on the linked quarter basis.
Operating income increased to 6.4 million or 92% from the first quarter and the balance sheet remains stable.
We’ve had strong loan originations during the first half of the year.
As expected we funded over 170 million of new loans during the quarter and 243 million during the first six months of the year.
We redeployed all loan repayments received during the quarter and expect to receive minimal loan repayments during the second half of 2012.
Interest income improved and should continue to rise in the third quarter as we receive a full quarter of interest income on newly funded loan.
At this point all available funds in RAIT’s CRE CDO too [ph] have been deployed and the reinvestment period has ended.
Our CMBS loan business is ramping nicely.
During the quarter we closed and funded 32 million of small balanced CMBS loans and contributed loans into two recent securitizations.
Our warehousing agreements with two banking partners enable us to continually close and associate CMBS loans into their securitization.
Having multiple securitizations partner shortens the holding period of our loans thereby increasing the turnover of our capital and reducing our overall risk.
The CMBS pipeline continues to grow as we add to our origination team and looking forward we expect to be selling loans every quarter.
Our portfolio of directly held real estate also continues to improve.
Rental income as well as occupancy and NOI had increased as we raised rents lease additional office and retail space also as property operating expenses remains stable and actually declines slightly during the second quarter.
Multi-family properties remain our favorite property type in this environment and represent the majority of our directly owned portfolio.
We remained focused on growing the NOI of the entire portfolio which will increase cash flow and the value of rates equity investment in these properties.
With that overview I’d like to turn the call over to Jim.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
The key drivers of our second quarter 2012 financial performance were as follows.
First asset growth during the second quarter we had growth loan production of 170 million and pay off totaling 86 million resulting a net loan growth of 84 million.
This loan growth was the primary contributor to the increase of our interest income of $800 000 on the linked quarter basis.
We expect that our interest income will increase in the third quarter as the loans responded in the second quarter have been outstanding for a full quarter.
Second asset performance regarding our loan portfolio three items of note.
First we converted two loans totaling 25 million to own real estate one property at a 229 000 square foot 79% occupied office tower at St.
Paul Minnesota and the other property is a 64 000 square foot 87% occupied retail center located in Ralf Rapp Texas [ph] just north of Austen.
These loans were current on their interest but were in maturity default.
We incurred the gain on these transactions as the value of the real estate exceeded our loan basis.
Second our non-accrual loans increased to – due to an $80 million that became delinquent during the second quarter.
We expect full recovery from this loan at the property value as it is today exceeds our outstanding loan balance.
Non accruals ended the quarter at 74 million or 6.9% of our outstanding loan balance.
At the quarter end we maintained teary loan [inaudible] of approximately 35 million which were added with the cover anticipated loan losses in the future.
Lastly our CRE CDOs continue to perform with good coverage in their OC and IC test.
With regards to our own real estate portfolios we continue to see improvement in the key measures of their performance occupancy and rental rates.
Our portfolio occupancy has increased 85% as of June 30th up from 83% as of June 30th 2011.
This improvement along with rental rate gains has increased rental income by approximately $700 000 on a linked quarter basis.
Real estate operating expenses was out 300 000 in the second quarter as compared to last quarter.
As a result the net operating income at our own properties increased to 12 million this quarter.
That is a $1 million increase since last quarter at a $4 million increase since the second quarter of 2011.
To further highlight the improvement in our own real estate performance let’s look at our multi-family assets which represent approximately 60% of our own real estate portfolio.
The improvement in their occupancy and performance is even more dramatic.
Since the second quarter of 2011 occupancy in our multi-family business has increased to 91% up from 88%.
Average rental rates have increased to $695 per month up from $673 per month in the second quarter of 2011.
Net operating income from the multi-family properties with 7.5 million this quarter up 41% since the second quarter of 2011.
Our business activities had contributed to an improvement of our reported AFFO 12 million and $0.25 per diluted share during the second quarter.
As to pick it up [ph] on our press release our AFFO has increased year over year and on a linked quarter basis.
Revenue is higher in the second quarter as compared to last quarter driven by our asset growth and improved performance at our own properties.
Overall expenses were down predominantly driven by lower real estate operating expenses and lower compensation expenses.
Interest expense was lower this quarter as compared to the first quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we expect additional interest savings of approximately $300 000 for third quarter from RAIT CRE CDO head as they continue to burn off according to their original term.
We’ve listed our earlier office space sublease and accrued a of $1.5 million loss in other expense on a future sublease.
As a result our rent expense will be reduced going forward as well.
We do report a GAAP net loss for the second quarter of $7 million or $0.14 for the diluted share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to continue negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
Please remember the changes in the fair value of our financial instrument relate to our consolidated Taberna securitizations and our non-cash.
As such our presentation and discussion of FFO about is more than decade of our financial performance.
Finally let’s discuss some key statistics with respect to our balance sheet book value and capital available.
During the second quarter we introduced adjusted book value or ABV to help investors understand management field book value.
Scheduled too of our cash release provide a reconciliation between our GAAP book value and our ABV.
Our ABV was $6.56 as June 30 of 2012 and our GAAP book value was $13.52.
From a capital perspective we ended the quarter with $275 million of capital available for investment.
Our capital consists of $44 million of cash on hand and the unused portion of our warehouse lines totally $231 million as of June 30.
Scott this concludes our financial report.
Thanks Jim.
We’ve been productive with the capital that we raised in our March offering.
We invested approximately $30 million of the proceeds into our core lending business $15 million went into a bridge loan and the balance was invested in the seven CMBS loans.
The annualized return on this invested capital is approximately 31%.
The CMBS business is a volume business where we will turn our invested capital multiple times per year as we originate and secure tight CMBS loans recover our invested capital and invest it again.
Going forward our bridge loan business will be funded through bank participation program.
As you know many regional banks and insurance companies are having difficulty originating small well-positioned good yielding loan.
Our program provides these banks and insurance companies with senior loan participation of 50% to 60% LPV that will result in the mid- to high-teens return to rate on a retain subordinate loan investment.
We are in effect creating small mezzanine loans for our balance sheet.
As we do this we’re looking to the past as we had success with this type of program during our CRE CDO period and expect to have success in the future.
I think at this time operator we’d like to open the call for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session Hi good morning guys.
Hi Gabe.
Good morning.
A very nice job in the quarter and thank you so much for the clarity on the adjusted book value.
It’s really helpful.
Just a couple of quick questions Scott I think I asked you this every quarter but I’m going to ask it again can you just give us an update based on the compression across the curve? Is there any change in where you guys can put out money from a bridge lending perspective and kind of where you’re putting money out today relative to a quarter or two quarters ago? Gabe there’s not been any compression I should say.
As you can tell from our release we had a very active period for bridge loans.
We have a strong pipeline looking forward.
Loans are being funded and the live work plus 550- to 600-range with floors between 6 and 6.5 depending on the leverage and the property type and location.
And that’s what we’ve seen for the last six months or so.
So we’re not seeing any compression whatsoever.
How competitive is that market? I know you guys as you mentioned in your prepared remark prior to your CDO days you guys had a niche business with a significant rolodex in that area and I assume you guys still had that rolodex.
How competitive is that business right now just in terms of the scarcity of lenders even just across the board as you mentioned banks unwilling to go into market? How competitive is it for other specialty financed names so to speak? It’s competitive at the larger levels but we’re still – rates focus has always been on smaller loans and that’s where we stay in the middle-market so to speak.
If you’re looking at a loan or if we’re looking at the loan in the $25 million to $30 million range there’s a lot of competition.
But in the $7 million to $10 million $12 million range there’s not nearly as much and that’s where we’re focusing our efforts.
That’s what we’ve always done.
We think it builds a more granular portfolio which just gives [ph] to safety going forward.
And that’s our bread and butter and we’re sticking to it.
Got you.
That’s helpful.
One more question if I may.
How do you guys think about kind of on a go forward basis you reported $0.25 of AFFO this quarter it’s more indicative of kind of the cash on cash return at rate relative to the $0.08 payout? Good question Gabe.
I’m not pressing.
It just – kind of thinking out overtime you obviously have built in a lot of cushion which is a good thing.
We have and rates come through a period of real turmoil.
We are confident and comfortable at the $0.08 level.
Obviously we discussed it with our board every quarter.
The operations continue to improve and we believe going forward that there’s no reason they won’t improve even more.
We’ve stated that the $0.08 – that we will not distribute less than $0.08 or that we don’t intend to distribute less than $0.08.
I am hopeful that as our AFFO and cash flow improve going forward that the board will authorize higher dividends.
But at this point it’s reviewed on a quarterly basis and the company’s results the market everything is taken into consideration.
And as we’ve said we don’t intend to lower it from $0.08 but we will continue to review it.
And again hopefully the board will recognize as results increase or improve that we should be increasing the dividend.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Nice job guys.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Hi Jason.
Good morning.
On the $275 million of capital available for investment how do you think about breaking that between the opportunities in CMBS bridge mezz? Of $275 million that we did in the first six months of the year – I’m sorry.
Were you talking about the production or the – or the capital available? The capital available.
Just thinking about how you would like to allocate it going forward.
Well it’s largely allocated through the two warehouse lines for CMBS production.
That’s 250 – there are 230 million of the available cash or capital.
And I guess if you had a bank signed and you saw an opportunity there would you shift some of the non-CMBS capital to fund those ones or would you think about getting a different warehouse plan? How would we think about that business being funded on a go forward basis? The way we’re going forward is that we have the warehouse lines for the CMBS business and the participation program or a syndication effort if you will will be for the bridge business.
We don’t like to leverage mezz [ph] because it’s inherently leveraged already.
So the bridge business will be funded by selling senior pieces of the loans off to – again as I said to various banks and smaller insurance companies.
That in itself is similar to what we would be doing with the warehouse line.
Okay.
And are we close – are you close to signing a bank on the participation side? How is that process going? We have a number of banks that we are working with and actively showing deals to and we are confident that if we want to move forward because of the credit profile of the opportunity that works for us that the bank will be there to fund alongside of.
Okay.
And is the board thinking about the fact that that is – the mezz piece if it is participation with the bank on the senior side that you don’t want to leverage.
Is the board thinking that the retained capital that would be used for that asset? Is that one of the reasons the board is not thinking… Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
And again it’s – these are small – these will be small individual interest.
Again if we’re doing an $8 million loan and we’re selling all 60% of it you’re talking about $3 million of retained interest.
So we can – we can do a fair amount of that with the capital that we have available.
That makes perfect sense.
And then if you could just give us some color on the CMBS business and the pipeline.
It looked like – as is usual in this environment some transactions slip quarter to quarter.
But I think before you had talked about a $60 million-ish pipeline that was close to closing and if I can add it up we still have some more that might be closing in the third quarter is that right? Yes we do.
We have a very active pipeline.
We closed number – it was 32 million in the second quarter.
There’s been some closing since and we have a very strong pipeline going forward.
That business is ramping nicely as I indicated.
And last question and I’ll jump out.
Is the gain on sale margin – I mean there’s obviously eight points it seems like it was an anomaly which is great.
It’s a good anomaly to have.
On a go forward basis consistently what should we be thinking about in terms of margin there? On the CMBS business what we’re seeing is 2.5 to 3 points on the total loan of which we have 25% of that loan is our – is our capital and the other 75% is the warehouse line.
So on our equity you can multiply that by three so you’re looking at a 10 point business – or 9 to 10 point business.
On equity okay.
Great.
Great quarter and thank you for the disclosure and taking all the questions I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Good morning.
It’s a great quarter.
Hi Brian.
Hi.
On the restrictive cash it looks like $100 million now.
Is that all – so how much of that is potentially re-investable into – I know the re-investment period is over.
But I thought that there were some extension possibilities still even though the re-investment period was over.
The re-investment period has ended and of the restricted cash there’s between $50 million and $60 million that is being held for future funding commitments within existing loan.
So that is not interest earning capital at the moment but as we fund it it will be.
And over what period of time does that happen? I would – I would – if – it depends obviously on the borrower because these are for improvements being made to properties and how quickly the borrowers get that done but I would guess within a year.
Okay.
And on the interest expense I know you had some hedges rolling off is there any way you can quantify how much that will continue here and how much has already rolled off? What sort of savings? Sure.
I mean we’re going to – this is Jim.
We’re going to have about $300 000 of savings per quarter in the third quarter and the fourth quarter of 2012 from the roll off of the hedges.
And how about – anything in the next year? There are some next year.
I don’t have the number handy but there are certainly some continued rolled back next year as well.
Okay.
Listen we’d like to see that the AFFO and the cash flow is going forward and you had put out in a investor presentation recently your expectations for cash flows this year and next.
Has that changed at all? We’re still tracking with those productions.
Great.
And in light of that and sort of following up on the question asked earlier we think the dividend payout ratio is low and we think that it would be sending a very good signal if you were to increase that even though – however modest that might be sequentially each quarter as your cash flow goes higher to support that.
We hear you Brian.
And we understand that and as I said to Gabe that we will be reviewing it on a quarterly basis with our board.
And we’re comfortable with the payout ratio where it is relative to AFFO.
So as AFFO increases I think it’s fair to assume that the dividend will increase along with it.
Right.
And when is the next time that you meet to determine the dividend? We meet on a quarterly basis.
It’s every quarter.
And so when do you expect that the next dividend announcement date would be? Well usually it – later of the – late in the second or early in the third month of each quarter.
Great.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
You’re welcome.
Once again thank you for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you again after the end of our third quarter.
Thanks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2012 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Catherine and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will be conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Andres Viroslav Vice President.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Catherine and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust third quarter 2012 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11.00 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 337-322-73 Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matter described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott?  Thanks Andres and thanks to all of you for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report another strong quarter at RAIT.
The hard work and effort we’ve put forward focusing on our core business is clearly paying off.
Revenues increased across all three categories this quarter interest income rental income and fee income all increased driven primarily by the expansion of our core lending businesses and continued growth of our rental revenue.
Operating expenses as a whole remained flat during the quarter resulting in a 57% increase in operating income on a linked quarter basis.
As discussed on previous calls our interest expense continues to declines as hedged burn off.
We remain match funded because we are increasing the number of floating rate loans in the portfolio and as a result we don't need to replace the interest rate hedges when they expire.
We saved $300 000 in the third quarter and expect to save an additional $250 000 in the fourth quarter as existing hedges burn off.
We estimate an additional $3 million in hedge cost savings during 2013.
The bottom line impact of these results is that AFFO rose to $0.30 per share and operating income jumped to 9.4 million for the third quarter.
These increases were directly attributable to the progress we made originating and securitizing CMBS loans from receiving a full quarter of interest income on the loans we funded during the second quarter and from further reductions in interest expense.
As a result of this progress RAIT’s board recently announced our second quarterly common dividend increase of 2012.we remain focused on delivering a consisting and steadily growing dividend to RAIT shareholders as we continue to accretably deploy capital into our core businesses.
Jim will go through the numbers shortly but I’d like to take a moment to discuss the recently announced $100 million capital commitment from Almanac Realty Investors.
We recognized the need to identify a new capital to help us continue the positive forward momentum in our lending businesses.
We've made good progress towards obtaining this capital.
We secured two warehouse facilities to fund our CMBS lending initiatives and we're actively exploring other similar initiatives for our bridge lending businesses.
We have also begun to partner with banks who are interested in participating in our pipeline of bridge loans.
As previously reported Almanac Realty committed to purchase $100 million of newly issued securities.
We are excited to have this relationship with such a well-respected and capable partners Almanac.
The commitment is structured so that RAIT can draw funds as needed over two year periods so that the capital isn't dilutive to earnings.
We will use the proceeds to fund all of our lending businesses and fully expect this capital to be accretive to our common shareholders as we close themselves CMBS loans and close and lever bridge loans.
When we deploy capital in our lending businesses we target returns in excess of 20% well in excess of the 7.5% current cost of the Almanac capital.
At this point I’d like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results.
Jim?  Thank you Scott.
The third quarter was a good quarter for RAIT.
AFFO increased 30% to $0.30 per diluted share up from $0.23 in the third quarter of 2011.
Let`s spend a little time on the numbers and the drivers of our business.
As Scott discussed all three categories of our revenue were up on a linked quarter basis.
Interest income grew by $1.6 million or 6% quarter to quarter as year-to-date loan production reached $285 million of which $31 for the [Audio Disturbance] and are seeing occupancy increases in our office and retail properties.
Lastly seeing other income is up 73% or $1.5 million as a result of our securitizing $36 million of CMBS conduit loans resulting in $2.1 million of profit that is included as part of fee and other income.
With respect to our expenses most expenses are in line with our expectations and historical levels.
A couple items as note.
First interest expense is down sequentially due to lower hedge costs in our CRE CDOs of $300 000 and lower interest cost on $25 million of subordinated debt that flipped from a fixed rate to a floating rate of interest during the third quarter.
We expect that our CRE hedge cost will decline by an additional $250 000 in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
For the full year of 2013 we are expecting additional savings in our interest rate hedge cost associated with our CRE CDOs of approximately $3 million as these hedges continue to burn off or amortize.
Second property operating expenses increased by $800 000 as the two properties we acquired in May 2012 were owned for a full quarter.
Property NOI was $12.2 million for the third quarter while NOI increased by $100 000 on a linked quarter basis it has increased by $3.1 million since the third quarter of 2011 or a 34% increase.
That increase equates to $12 million of additional NOI on an annual basis.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are consistent as a percentage of revenue and are running at approximately 16%.
We expect some modest increase in these expenses as we continue to hire the personnel necessary to grow our business.
From a credit standpoint we continue to see stability in our loan portfolio.
Non-accrual loans decreased slightly to $70 million or 6.8% of our portfolio.
We continue to maintain loan loss reserves at approximately 47% of our non-accrual loan and believe that we are adequately reserved for any potential future losses.
We reported a GAAP net loss for the third quarter of $18.4 million or $0.37 per diluted share.
As with the prior quarters the GAAP net loss was attributable to continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments relates to our consolidated (inaudible) securitizations and our non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
As of September 30<sup>th</sup> we continue to maintain good liquidity on capital available for investment.
We ended the quarter with $40 million of cash on hand and $291 million of capital available for investment.
As Scott mentioned in October of 2012 we closed on a $100 million capital commitment from (inaudible) Almanac Realty and as such our capital available for investment has increased to $391 million.
During 2012 we introduced adjusted book value or ABV to help investor’s management’s view book value.
Scheduled two of our press release reconciles our GAAP book value to ABV.
Our ABV at September 30<sup>th</sup> was $6.65.
Finally in September we declared a dividend of $0.09 per common share.
This declaration represented a second increase in our common dividend during 2012 or a 50% increase since last year.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator at this time I think we want to open up the call for questions.
A few questions.
Scott I was hoping you could provide a little more color around the program the bank participation program.
I noted that in the 2Q conference call and you mentioned today you are working on some things is there any incremental color you have there would be helpful.
Second question is you guys are obviously having a lot of success in the CMBS market contributing loans to conduits.
Can you give me a sense of if you’re working with the kind of diversity of different conduits or you have kind of one or two key relationships there because obviously the CMBS market is opened back up materially here in the back half of the year.
And then lastly Jim you may have said this and if you did I apologize can you just give me the breakout of the 391 million now of capital available between cash and lines etcetera just so I have the different buckets to where that 391 is I'll start with the CMBS question.
The two warehouse lines that we have are with one is with Barclays and one is with Citi and we have been securitizing loans through their programs.
We like that strategy because it appears at least for the time being that they are each coming to the market with deals every other month so it allows us to have good velocity in turning our loans.
We’re not carrying them on our balance sheet for very long.
But so far it’s just those two partners and those are the partners that provide the warehousing to us.
As far as the bank program goes we have been working to establish relationships with the banks who would participate with us on the bridge lending.
I am sure you recognize that banks are hungry for loans.
We've had good success.
We have five or six banks that have expressed a strong interest in doing this program with us.
It's now incumbent upon us to generate the loans that they will participate and of course the second quarter we were slightly the third quarter we were slightly capital constrained because we were fully invested through our CDOs at the end of the second quarter and the new capital that we discussed for that moment that didn’t come in until the very beginning of the fourth quarter.
So we have been busy building up a pipeline but of course we didn’t want to get out ahead of ourselves because we are still going to need you know 25% or 30% equity for each of these loans that we fund under this program.
But now that we have the capital it's full speed ahead and again we are very pleased with the response we received from the banks that we are working with.
Before you entered the question Scott can I follow-up on that real quick can you just give me I think I ask this every quarter but can you the world is obviously changing rapidly quarter to quarter QE3 is now implemented have you guys seen any major delta between where you guys can originate those bridge loans or kind of just take a step back.
What has the ROE profile changed either in the CMBS world what you guys are doing there that velocity turnover or where you guys can put out bridge money.
No we really haven’t seen much of a change it's still there is a very healthy spread and on the bridge product you know as we all know that we are doing smaller floating rate loans.
We are still seeing pricing in the 6.5% to 7% range you know for these assets that have a modest amount of transition associated with them and the banks are you know in the 3.5% range.
So there is a good healthy spread and which all equates to a 20% give or take yield on our residual subordinated piece and on the CMBS side spreads have come in little bit on the origination side but it's because the spreads have come in you know on the securitization pricing as well and so we are seeing similar margins and again we are playing in smaller loans where there is just less competition and that allows us maybe to have slightly better margins than would be available if we were playing in a larger loan area with more competition.
And gave on the capital available for investments is 391 million it's made up of about $41 million of cash at the end of the quarter 250 million available on the warehouse line and a 100 million capital commitment from Almanac.
Let me just add one thing there Gabe which is that we securitized the most recent pool of loans right near the end of the third quarter and that’s why the lines were all paid back.
Just in terms of the Almanac investment after completing the first drawn down on that capital do you expect deploy those proceeds fairly quickly by the end of the year meaning you where their target investments that you had lined up before you drew down those proceeds.
Yes absolutely there is targeted investments that we have lined up to deploy before the third week of November and that’s why we drew the money.
Again this was structured so that we wouldn’t be sitting on capital that would be dilutive to our common shareholders so we drew it so that we knew we had it and we are in the process of closing loans using that capital.
Great and then going forward if it's safe to assume future drawdowns will be then used to match fund investments as they come along.
Yes that’s the program.
Switching gears a little bit on the multi-family occupancy was down a 100 basis points sequentially any color on that you mentioned you’re trying to push around some more in that asset class did occupancy take a hit because of those rent increases.
We are pushing rents and that’s all that’s always a balance between pushing rents and occupancy.
So we do think that had some effect on the slight decline in occupancy.
However the third quarter seasonally is typically a little softer than the other three quarters of the year.
So we are not at all alarmed about it there is still a strong demand for multi-family properties and notwithstanding the uptick in home ownership from what we have seen that really has impacted the A-Plus properties and ours are mostly B-Plus to A-minus and we expect occupancies to remain strong in the 90% and then we still believe we will be able to push rents are going forward.
Great and then finally just on the CMBS securitization loans as Gabe mentioned that the new issue markets picked up a little bit and you guys have talked about your large pipeline of those deals.
Are you comfortable kind of you did 36 million of securitization on the third quarter is that a good run-rate going forward? You mentioned kind of Barclays and Citi are kind of alternating a deal a quarter what do you think it's a good run-rate in terms of your securitization volume targets on a quarter basis.
I think we are still ramping and we are still relatively new entrant to this field and that the run-rate should be three times that going forward for the year 2013.
So if you made 2 million in change on 36 million of you sold is that kind of point level is going to be substantial for a while do you think? Well you know the market adjust daily Brian.
There was some tightening of spreads on the issuance side the securitization side during the third quarter and we benefited from that because we were securitizing loans that had been originated prior to that period.
However we still believe that in the space that we play that we are in a 3 to 4 point area and you lever that you know three times you get to the 10%-12% gains on each loan.
So that’s kind of where we think it will stay for a while and again it's because we are doing smaller loans but there is less competition.
Can you talk about little bit about IRT and how things are going there and what are your expectations for next year? Things are going slow we are continuing to sign up broker dealers there is clearly some head wins in the industry as a whole you know there has been drum beat of negative news which has affected us and many others but we still believe that we have a viable a program and a good strategy and we are moving forward.
We have only been at the signing up of broker dealers process for a year and again if you look back at other groups that have been successful in this space it's always takes two years plus until you really start to see the volume increase.
Again we believe in the program we are sticking with it we are doing it in a way that we believe is cost effective so tis not really hurting rates bottom-line but it's slower than what we had hoped for.
In your investor presentation you provide some 2012 and 2013 expectations for cash flow and I think one of the key assumptions in that presentation is that there was no incremental capital put to work.
Now that you got this 100 million facility from Almanac as well as the warehouse lines.
Are you going to adjust what you’re thinking is for 2013 now? We will and that will included in the next version of the presentation that I will come out in a couple of weeks.
Is there any way you can tell us sort of an apples to apples basis what the Q3 cash flow per share? Sure I mean the cash flow per share that’s you know that would be increasing the amount of related to the amount of dividend that we are declaring here was kind of give or take roughly $0.14 $0.15 a share because as we all know the earnings of the (inaudible) securitization is used to delever that portfolio or delever that debt.
So the cash flow per common share would be closer to $0.14 $0.15.
And what does that kind of imply given the range you have got for 2012 of $0.48 to $0.63 in the last presentation.
What did that imply for Q4? What’s the range on Q4 cash flow per share? We expect Q4 to be in the same range.
So comparable to Q3.
Comparable to Q3 correct.
So you’re paying out $0.09 on say $0.15 roughly 60% as a payout ratio.
Is that ratio you know sort of what we expect to continue to payout and cash flow goes higher therefore our dividend will go higher? Yes that’s a fair assumption Brian and I will tell you that as we put the new capital to work I expect the cash flow to increase.
So the fourth quarter you know we’re only three weeks into it we haven’t closed any loans yet in the fourth quarter although the pipeline is very full of signed up deals and they will start closing I think as early as late next week right through the end of the year so I would not be surprised at all for the cash flow for the fourth quarter is slightly ahead of where we were for the fourth quarter.
So looking at what you’re previously had for 2013 the mid-point of the range is about $0.95 and given that we have more capital to put to work now let’s say you make a buck in cash flow paid out 60% ratio that would imply $0.60 dividend next year.
Yes it would.
Can you just talk a little bit about I guess your thoughts of leverage overtime and how much leverage that you think what’s the leverage ratio that you’re comfortable with and potentially when you need more equity can you help us understand that? Well on the loans that we are originating for sale the leverage that we are using there is 75%.
On the loans that we are holding on our balance sheet the bridge loans because the pricing is a little bit more advantages.
We are targeting 50% leverage and on the bank participation program the way that shapes out is that we would for example we would originate a 75% loan let’s say just for the math let’s say a 70% loan and if the bank comes in and buys 70% of our loan there is 50% leverage against the property which is where they want to be and then we would be left with a subordinated debt piece that is 30% of the loan.
Yeah got it and then makes a lot of sense and then the last question I have for you relative to the convert if it goes through the strike can you is there like if it trades above the stride for so many days do you have the ability to force conversion or can you not do that until ’16 because obviously that changes your leverage ratio if that turns to equity.
I believe that we cannot that it goes until ’16 but we can confirm that and get back to you.
Well thank you.
In summary I just want to say that RAIT is a full service real estate company with the scalable platform that supports commercial real estate lending and direct commercial real estate ownership.
We believe that these asset classes are complimentary and provide a balanced approach to investing in commercial real estate and we remain focused on growth and we will put our capital to work across all of these business lines.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter and thanks for joining our call today and for your continued interest in RAIT.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Andrew and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Andres Viroslav Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Andrew and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust fourth quarter and fiscal 2012 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11:00 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 873-973-44.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thanks you all for joining our call today.
Let’s start with the financial highlights for the fourth quarter.
AFFO rose to $0.33 per share a 10% increase over the third quarter of 2012.
During the same period total revenues increased 5% to $55 million and operating income increased 19% to $11.3 million.
In addition our own property portfolio continues to deliver a consistent NOI and cash flow stream.
Strong loan originations CMBS loan sales and stable credit performance from the portfolio were the key drivers this quarter.
During the fourth quarter we funded $90 million of loans including $67 million of CMBS loans and $23 million of bridge and mezzanine loans for the balance sheet.
For the year we funded $376 million of loans consisting of $119 million of CMBS loans and $257 million of bridge and mezzanine loans.
Our CMBS lending and securitization initiative is ramping nicely.
During 2012 we securitized $98 million of CMBS loans including $57 million during the fourth quarter.
The CMBS loan pipeline continues to grow and is now approximately $640 million.
Also during the fourth quarter we entered into a $150 million warehouse facility with a subsidiary of Credit Suisse for our bridge loan production.
This relationship will increase our capacity while providing access to the floating rate securitization market.
We recently funded our first loan on this warehouse line.
We expect to hold these bridge loans on our balance sheet while using the securitization market and bank participation initiative to provide attractive match funded financing.
The bridge loan pipeline is also growing and is approximately $160 million.
We ended the fourth quarter raising $57 million through a secondary public offering of common stock including full exercise of the overallotment option in January.
The offering was well received in the market and we are working to deploy the proceeds into our lending business.
As a result of the strong performance across our core businesses RAIT’s board announced our third common dividend increase since 2011 to $0.10 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
This represents an 11% increase from the prior quarter’s dividend and a 67% increase from the fourth quarter of 2011 dividend.
We remain focused on increasing cash flow and delivering a consistent and steadily growing common share dividend as we deploy capital into our core businesses.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
Before getting into the numbers I would like to take a moment to explain the new income statement presentation.
Due to our focus in the projected growth in our CRE lending we have change our income statement and are now presenting net interest margin.
The new presentation enhances our disclosure by allocating the associated interest and hedging cost to the loan and real estate equity portfolios.
Interest cost associated with our investments and loans and securities is presented as investment interest expense and together with investment interest income generates net interest margin.
The interest cost included in expense is associated with corporate obligation and interest associated with our own real estate properties.
Now let’s get into the number.
AFFO increased 11% to $0.33 per diluted share up from $0.30 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Net interest margin increased $800 000 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 due to reduced hedging cost as interest rate hedges in our CRE CDOs continue to burn off during 2012.
As we indicated in our earnings call last quarter for the full year of 2013 we are expecting additional savings in our interest rate hedge cost associated with our CRE CDOs of approximately $3 million as these hedges continue to amortize in 2013.
Year-to-date loan production was $376 million in 2012 of which $119 million was associated with our CMBS conduit business.
Rental income increased by 9% or $2.3 million in Q4 2012 as compared to Q4 2011 as rental rates in our multi-family portfolio continue to decline and we acquired one multi-family property in October 2012.
Lastly fee and other income is up $4.3 million in Q4 2012 as compared to Q4 2011 as a result of our securitizing $57 million of CMBS conduit loan resulting in $3.8 million of profit during the current quarter.
With respect to our expenses most of the expenses are in line with our expectations and historical levels.
A couple of items of note.
First interest expense is down $1.3 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 due to lower outstanding debt and lower interest cost and $25 million of subordinated debt.
That flips from a fixed rate to a floating rate of interest during the second quarter of 2012.
Second property operating expenses increased by $600 000 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
All of this increase was the result of three properties acquired in 2012 that were not present in 2011.
Property NOI was $12.2 million during the fourth quarter an increase of 16% or $1.7 million since the fourth quarter of 2011.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are consistent at approximately 18% of total revenue in Q4 2012 as compared to Q4 2011.
We expect some modest increase in these expenses as we continue to hire the personnel necessary to grow our business.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 operating income was $11.3 million that’s a 164% increase over the fourth quarter of 2011 operating income of $4.3 million.
That is $7 million increase quarter-to-quarter or $28 million annually.
The combination of CMBS loan sales the broad improvement in our net interest margin and our property NOI drove our operating income higher in 2012 as compared to 2011.
As with prior quarters we reported a GAAP net loss for the fourth quarter of $50 million or $0.99 per diluted share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $58 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes in these financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the Taberna CDO liabilities during the fourth quarter and throughout 2012.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments relates to our consolidated Taberna securitizations and our non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
From a credit standpoint we continue to see stability in our loan portfolio.
Non-accrual loans decreased slightly to $69 million or 6.5% of our portfolio.
We continue to maintain loan (inaudible) at approximately 44% of our non-accrual loans and believe that we adequately reserve for any potential future losses.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all overcollateralization test.
At December 31<sup>st</sup> CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 126.6% that is above the required level of 116.2%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of 118% and that is above the required level of 111.7%.
At December 31<sup>st</sup> we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investment.
In December 2012 we accessed capital markets and sold 10 million shares of RAIT common stock inclusive of the overallotment exercise in January 2013 and raised $57 million of proceeds.
We ended the quarter with $500 million of capital available for investment comprised of $100 of cash on hand $250 million of availability under our two CMBS warehouse lines and $150 million of availability under our bridge loan facility.
As we discussed on our last earnings call we closed the $100 million capital commitment from Almanac Realty on October 2012.
Since the closing we have drawn down or issued $65 million of the Series D preferred shares.
Along with the issuance of Series D preferred shares we issued warrants and SARs on our common shares.
Due to the variety of considerations under US GAAP the Series D preferred shares are shown in the mezzanine level in the balance sheet that is between liabilities and equity and the value of the warrants and SARs is recorded as a separate liability included in other liabilities.
The resulting discount and cost incurred to complete the transaction will be amortized earning over the respective term.
The 10-K will continue further disclosure surrounding the accounting treatment for this transaction.
The remaining unfunded commitment from Almanac Realty is $35 million.
Since year end we have funded $38 million of CRE loans and have repaid $19.4 million of indebtedness that was costing us $9.6 million annual.
As of today RAIT has no recourse debt maturities until April 2015.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
We remain focused on our multi-strategy approach of commercial real estate lending and direct ownership of commercial real estate property.
The property portfolio provides stability during volatile times and is an effective hedge against inflation.
Though we expect to deploy the majority of our available capital into the lending businesses we do see and we will take advantage of attractive opportunities to acquire properties for our loan portfolio.
You may have seen the recent announcements surrounding Jack Salmon.
Jack played an important role as RAIT’s CFO during the great recession after which he moved over to lead the Independence Realty Trust effort.
Jack will be leaving both RAIT and IRT and I will be taking over the CEO responsibilities at Independence Realty.
We wish Jack well.
I think at this time operator I would like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi FBR please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Gabe.
A couple of questions for you.
Scott you mentioned that you guys have made or funded a first loan on – against the CS facility.
Can you talk about what you see as the ramp of that $150 million facility is there a time table for that? Sure Gabe.
Well keep in mind that we didn’t close on that facility until the middle of December.
Of course while we have always been a bridge loan lender we really weren’t ramping a pipeline until we knew that that was going to close because we didn’t want to get ahead of ourselves and have commitments out there that we couldn’t fund.
So we really started ramping the pipeline very late in the fourth quarter and then early in January.
It’s now I think I said about $160 million give or take and we expect to have that facility used and have a portfolio ready to securitize sometime during the later portion of the first half of this year.
Great that’s helpful.
Second question is there any comments you can provide on what you guys have done in conduit lending year-to-date? I mean you had a very robust fourth quarter and a great year in 2012 how is that continuing? I know you have a huge pipeline I think you said $600 – in excess of $600 – kind of anything year-to-date that you can talk about? Yes the pipeline is growing and is very strong.
We have already funded $35 million of CMBS loans.
I have been reporting that we wanted to do a $150 million of lending in the first quarter and we are on track to do that.
Perfect.
Last question for you can you comment about – you are pushing rents in multi-family the REO book has higher occupancy north of 85% can you talk about how shareholders should think about the value of your REO portfolio kind of where you guys carry that and where you think that value might be today at least like a 20 000 foot level? Sure.
Well we think it’s undervalued.
When we took ownership of these properties we book them at their market value at that time.
Most of this portfolio was built during 2009 and 2010.
We know that net operating income at the portfolio has increased significantly since that time and property values in general had increased since that time.
Just looking at that as cap rates have compressed and as our NOI has increased clearly this portfolio has gained in value but we do not reappraise we do market it’s carried at the cost that we in effect acquired that a number of years ago.
Okay thank guys nice job.
Thanks Gabe.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Walrut [ph] Leidenberg please proceed.
Good morning guys good quarter.
Good morning Dave.
Thank you.
I just wanted to talk a little bit about the capital that you raised later in the quarter.
Obviously you are sitting on more cash at the end of the quarter due to the timing of that.
Can you talk first about the – I guess pace that you are able to deploy that that new capital? Quickly and I will add accretively.
The new capital came in as a good match for the CS warehouse line for the bridge financing.
But keep in mind that we do have fulsome growing pipelines and we wanted to just make sure that we had adequate liquidity to fund the opportunities that were available to us.
So that was the driver behind raising the money and we do expect to have it all deployed quickly this year.
Okay.
You are saying that the spreads that you are seeing on what you are deploying is accretive to where your previous portfolio the legacy portfolio have been? Yes absolutely.
Okay.
I guess kind of broad big picture can you take us through the mindset of raising the common versus tapping the preferred D that you signed late last year as well? The preferred D is there for us to draw over a two-year period from October of last year.
The common raise was available to us.
If you remember at the end of December we didn’t know what the fiscal cliff was going to look like in January.
The market reaction in early 2011 was somewhat of unknown.
So we took advantage of an opportunity to raise the money as we did in late December knowing that we still had the $35 million remaining of the Almanac commitment available to us for the future.
Okay great.
Okay I appreciate you guys.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jason Stewart Compass Point please proceed.
Alright thanks.
We know you contributed about $30 million to the UBS commercial and mortgage back security deal that’s in the market I think this week it’s expected to prices.
Is there any reason to think that there is a concentration limit to these deals and rates contribution to them? No.
We are contributing everything that we have closed and available to be identified when the tape has been put together.
Okay.
It’s the idea that we have.
It’s the program and it’s why we have two warehouse providers and a securitization partner so that we can continue to contribute our loans with some real velocity as we close them.
So the UBS deal is going today our other partner has a deal presumably going later in February and then there will be another one coming in March and we are contributing the loans really as quickly as we are funding them.
Got you thank you.
And then on the mez business could you just give us a quick update on incremental returns there if you are seeing any difference in pricing? We are not really looking to do a lot mez.
I don’t like the mez market today.
I think that that the pricing in the market is not appropriate for the risk that’s associated with mezzanine lending.
The mez that we are doing it is mez behind our own first CMBS production if we need to do a little bit of mez in order to win a deal and we like the property and borrowing it all makes sense or in the bridge situation as well.
So the mez that I see it I have seen mez being priced as low as 10% in some markets and as high as 12% to 13% in others.
I just frankly don’t believe that in the environment that we are in when you recognize that the mez is inherently levered because it’s already behind a large senior mortgage that those returns makes sense.
So we are only doing mez where it helps us win another deal that we think is priced appropriately.
Okay.
In the case where you are putting mez behind a more senior loan is the borrower typically to the table with additional equity in that case or if it’s a refi? It depends.
If the borrower has enough equity in the building or the property and we believe and all of the third party experts agree with this that there is value there then borrowers don’t have to come to the table with equity.
Let me just rephrase that a bit.
We are looking to do total loans senior loans in the 70% range and we will do 5% to 10% mez behind that.
So that means that there is 20% equity.
It may be a huge [ph] equity based upon the property’s value and if it’s not there then the borrower has to bring cash to the table in order to get the financing closed.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then a strategic question just to pull way up you have obviously demonstrated the ability to raise capital on the debt both the debt and equity side really has that changed the board’s thinking about the payout ratio in terms of the dividend? I can’t speak for the board as a whole but I would tell you that I don’t think it changes their thinking.
Okay.
One last question.
We have obviously seen the securitization market come back and then if we think way forward if there is a securitization vehicle to buy securities and securitize them instead of loans so currently it’s predominantly loans is that a business that that RAIT would consider or is it going to be primarily a lending business going forward? RAIT is a real estate business and our focus is on real estate investing through the lending platform and as I said through opportunistically acquiring direct ownership in properties that we see.
We are not going to be in the business of securitizing securities.
Okay thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
I would now like to turn the call over to Scott for closing remarks.
Thank you.
In summary we are in a strong position as we begin 2013.
Our pipelines are growing cash flow is increasing we have access to capital and our balance sheet remains stable.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter.
Thank you all for joining our call today and your continued interest in RAIT.
Thank you for joining today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Q1 2013 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Steve and I will be your operator today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question and answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Andres Viroslav.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Steve and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust first quarter 2013 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Office and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our www.raitft.com.
There will a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 91207640.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
It’s attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Participants may discuss an offering of common stock by Independent Royalty Trust Inc.
a RAIT2 sponsored and managed multi-family equity REIT.
An amendment to the registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective.
These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the amendment becomes effective.
A copy of the amendment may be obtained by contacting Investor Relations at the contact information in the press release and is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
I am pleased to report that this has been another strong quarter for RAIT.
This is demonstrated by our results this quarter in a number of key areas when compared to the first quarter of 2012.
AFFO increased 100% to $18.6 million during the quarter from $9.3 million.
AFFO per share increased 48% to $0.31 per share during the quarter from $0.21.
Total revenues increased 27% to $58.3 million from $45.8 million.
Operating income increased 326% to $14.4 million from $3.4 million.
In addition net operating income from our portfolio of owned properties increased to $12.8 million or 16% from $11 million at the first quarter of 2012.
On a link quarter basis AFFO per share was $0.02 lower mainly due to severance expense of approximately $1.1 million in the quarter and due to RAIT not receiving the full quarter’s income benefit from the deployment of proceeds from our December equity offering.
It’s important to reiterate that it typically takes up to 90 days to fully deploy proceeds from our capital raising activity.
We expect to fully deploy the capital from our March offering by the end of the second quarter.
We are clearly experiencing growth in all aspects of our business loan originations conduit loan sales and property net operating income.
This growth plus stable credit performance within our loan portfolio are the key drivers of our operating performance.
Loan production continues to ramp reflecting the investment in our loan origination and credit underwriting department.
During the quarter we funded $95 million of loans including $69 million of conduit loans $21 million of bridge loans and a $5 million mezzanine loan to the balance sheet.
Repayments in our CRE loan book were minimal at $2 million during the quarter.
We saw $41 million of conduit loans during the first quarter as compared to no loan sales during the first quarter of 2012 as the conduit loan sale initiative didn’t begin in earnest until then second half of 2012.
As a result the performance across our core businesses RAIT’s board announced our third consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.12 per share for the first quarter of 2013 representing a 20% from the prior quarter’s dividend and a 50% increase from the first quarter 2012 dividend.
And at this point I’d like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
During the first quarter AFFO increased 48% to $0.31 per share up from $0.21 in the first quarter of 2012.
Compared to Q1 2012 investment interest income was up $3.3 million due to increase loan production while investment interest expense was down $1.5 million as our interest rate hedges continue to amortize according to their term.
As a result net interest margin increased $4.3 million a 225 increase.
As we have highlighted on previous earnings calls for the remainder of 2013 we are expecting additional savings when compared to 2012 in our interest rate hedge cost associated with our CRE CDO of approximately $2.3 million as $44 million of hedges won’t continue to amortize.
For the three-month period ended March 31st 2013 our loan production was $95 million with $69 million associated with our conduit business.
The new loans we are closing have underwritten [inaudible] ranging from 58% to 83% and debt yields ranging from 8% to 16%.
From a portfolio perspective we continue to see improved credit statistics within our non-accrual loans decreasing to $68 million or $6.1% of our loan portfolio.
We continue to maintain loan loss reserves at approximately 38% of our non-accrual loans and believe that we adequately reserve for any potential future losses.
Rental income increased by 9% or $2.3 million in Q1 2013 as compared to Q1 2012 due to the three properties we acquired since March 31st of 2012 and the continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates in the historical real estate portfolio.
Multi-family occupancy at the end of Q1 2013 was 92.6% up from 90.4% in Q1 2013.
Average office and retail occupancy at the end of Q1 2013 was 69.7% up from 69.1% in Q1 2012.
The rental rates also continue to improve with multi-family rates increasing to $720 per unit per month during Q1 2013 a 4% increase since Q1 2012.
Lastly fee and other income is up $5.8 million in Q1 2013 as compared to Q1 2012 primarily due to the sale of $41 million of condo loans which resulted in $3.1 million of profit during the current quarter.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note interest expense for Q1 2013 is down $1.2 million compared to the first quarter of 2012 due to lower outstanding debt and lower interest cost and $25 million of subordinated debt that flipped from a fixed rate to a floating rate of interest during the second quarter of 2012.
Property operating expenses for Q1 2013 increased by $600 000 as compared to the first quarter of 2012.
All of this increase was a result of the three properties acquired since March 31st 2012.
The improvement in rental revenue and stability of our property operating expense improved net operating income by $1.7 million to $12.8 million for Q1 2013 a 16% increase since Q1 2012.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are down to approximately 18% of total revenue in Q1 2013 as compared to 21% of total revenue in Q1 2012.
Included in compensation expense in Q1 2013 is 1.1 million of savings cost that are non-recurring.
Excluding this one-time item are combined compensation and administrative expenses are consistent with Q1 2012 on a dollar basis but down significantly to 17% of our reported revenue as compared to Q1 2012.
For the first quarter of 2013 operating income was $14.4 million a 326% increase over Q1 2012 operating income of $3.4 million.
This is an $11 million increase quarter to quarter.
The combination of conduit loan sales the broad improvement of our margin and our property drove our operating income higher in Q1 2013 as compared to Q1 2012.
As of five quarters we reported a GAAP net loss for Q1 2013 of $91 million or $1.50 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $100 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes and the fair value of our financial instrument was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities that we consolidated.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDO we continue to meet all of our overcollateralization tests.
At March 31st 2013 CRE CDO I reported a OC test of 126.8% above the required level of 116.02%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of 117.7% above the required level of 111.07%.
These OC test results are largely unchanged compared to year-end 2012.
As of March 31st 2013 we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investment.
In March 2013 we accept the capital market and there is proceeds of $70 million.
That offering closed in April 2013.
We ended the quarter with $483 million of capital available for investment comprised of $64 million of cash on hand $247 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse line $137 million of availability under our bridge loan facility and 35 million of remaining commitment from Almanacs affiliate.
Lastly after our pay down of 19.4 million of recourse date in the first quarter of 2013 we have no unsecured recourse debt inventories until April 2016.
Scott this concludes the finance report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Let’s take a moment to discuss our focus for the remainder of 2013.
The theme for RAIT continues to be growth.
Our pipelines for both conduit and bridge loan opportunities continue to grow including the pipeline of accepted loan applications which has steadily increased since the beginning of the year.
We currently have approximately $180 million of loans under application which we’re working to close by the end of the second quarter.
To support this growth we increased our loan origination staff and we’ve also added underwriters and asset managers.
Additionally the bridge loan lending business continues ramping and we’re moving forward as planned with the goal of securitizing the initial bridge loan portfolio later this year.
As of this call the initial bridge portfolio totals $48 million.
Unlike the conduit lending business where the loans are originated for sale the bridge loan production will increase our assets as we expect to retain the below investment rate chances of any future securitized loan polls on our balance sheet.
Rate will continue to originate and close loans based on solid credit fundamentals that provides strong risk adjusted returns utilizing our seasoned commercial real estate platform.
Before opening up the call for questions I’d like to update you about our capital raising strategy for independent realty trust a rate-sponsored and manage multi-family equity REIT.
On April 26th we filed an amended registration statement with the SEC that modifies our approach raising capital for RAIT.
We have moved away from raising capital utilizing the traditional non-listed IRT format and move towards an underwritten public offering of IRT’s common stock.
If successful IRT will become a listed company.
The change reflects our belief that opportunities to raise capital exist today and the publicly listed market for IRT that did not exist when IRT was formed because this amendment has not yet been declared effective by the SEC.
I’m limited in my ability to discuss this offering at this time and direct you to IRT’s filed amendment as Andres has mentioned earlier.
And at this time Operator I think we should open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
As there are no questions I’d like to turn the call over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Well I’m happy to say that we must have provided a fulsome report.
In summary rate is in a strong position and 2013 is off to a good start.
Our pipelines are growing cash flow continues to increase and we have access to capital and our balance sheet remains stable.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter and thank you for joining our call today and your continued interest in RAIT.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lacy and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question and answer session towards the end of the presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Andres Viroslav Vice President.
Please proceed.
Thank you Lacy and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's second quarter 2013 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11 AM Eastern Time today.
The dial in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 84101872 Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s Press Release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Participants may discuss an offering of common stock by Independent Royalty Trust Inc.
a RAIT sponsored and managed multi-family equity REIT.
An amendment to the registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective.
These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time the amendment becomes effective.
A copy of the amendment may be obtained by contacting Investor Relations at the contact information in the press release and is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
I am pleased to report another solid quarter for RAIT.
The results this quarter when compared to the second quarter of 2012 highlight our continuing progress.
AFFO increased 78% to $22.1 million.
Total revenues increased 22% to $58.6 million.
Operating income increased 126% to $14.7 million and net operating income from our portfolio of owned properties increased to $12.9 million or 7.4%.
We continue experiencing growth in all aspects of our business loan originations conduit loan sales and owned property occupancy and net operating income.
This growth plus stable credit performance within our loan portfolio remain the key drivers of our performance.
Loan production continues to increase.
During the quarter we originated $171 million of loans including $139 million of conduit loans $19 million of bridge loans and $13 million of mezzanine loans for the balance sheet.
Repayments in our commercial real estate loan book continue at a slow pace with only $3.7 million repaying during the quarter.
Our conduit business continues to grow even with the recent volatility and rates.
The sharp increase in the 10 year treasury rate in June along with the widening of spreads temporarily slowed the market and ultimately delayed the closing of the number of our loans.
Even in these conditions we closed over $139 million of conduit loans and sold almost $80 million of loans during the second quarter versus selling $41 million of loans during the first quarter 2013.
Currently the market seems to be stable and spreads are tightening.
Going forward we expect both loan closing and sales to continue increasing.
Our floating rate bridge lending business is also growing.
I am extremely pleased to highlight as announced yesterday we recently closed on our first floating rate securitization.
Once fully ramped the securitization will have $135 million of floating bridge loans collateralizing $101 million of non-recourse match funded bonds and 34 million of RAIT's equity.
These assets and liabilities and liabilities will remain consolidated during RAIT's balance sheet and our equity will array high teens return.
As we continue to grow our bridge lending pipeline we expect to be a repeat issuer of these floating rate securitizations.
As a result of the performance across our core businesses representing a 63% increase from the second quarter of 2012 dividend of $0.08.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
During the second quarter AFFO per share increased 28% to $0.32 up from $0.25 in the second quarter of 2012.
Compared to Q2 2012 investment interest income was up $2.5 million due to increased loan production while investment interest expense was down $1.2 million as our interest rate hedges continue to advertise according their term.
As a result net interest margin increased $3.7 million an 18% increase.
As we have highlighted on previous earnings calls for the remainder of 2013 we are expecting additional savings when compared to 2012 in our interest rate hedge costs associated with our CRE CDOs of approximately $1.5 million as $28 million of hedges will continue to amortize.
For the three-months period ended June 30th 2013 our loan production was $171 million with $139 million associated with our conduit business.
The new loans we are closing have underwritten debt yields ranging from 8% to 16%.
For mid portfolio perspective our credit statistics are stable with our non-accrual loans decreasing to $66 million or 5.7% of our loan portfolio.
We continue to maintain loan loss reserves at approximately 37% of our non-accrual loans and believe that we are adequately reserved for any potential future losses.
Rental income increased by 9% or $2.4 million in Q2 2013 as compared to Q2 2012 due primarily to continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across our real estate portfolio.
The two properties that we acquired late in the second quarter of 2012 and the one property we acquired in October 2012 made up $900 000 of this increase quarter-over-quarter.
At the end of the second quarter 2013 we acquired a 328 unit apartment property in Durham North Carolina for $35.4 million in consideration.
RAIT held $33.8 million of first mortgage and mezzanine debt on the property and issued $1.6 million of limited partnership units to complete the transaction.
The transaction was done in a tax deferred manner for the seller and the purchase price was $1.5 million below its appraised value.
Accordingly we’ve recorded a gain on the transaction.
Additionally during the second quarter we agreed to sell a 239 unit apartment property in Little Rock Arkansas and recorded an estimated loss on sale of $1.3 million.
With respect to our loan portfolio the whole multifamily occupancy at the end of Q2 2013 was 92.6% up from 91.1% in Q2 2012.
Average office in retail occupancy at the end of the second quarter was 72% up from 70.6% in Q2 2012.
Rental rates also continue to improve within our multifamily business increasing to $727 per unit per month during the second quarter of 2013 just under a 5% increase in second quarter last year.
Lastly fee and other income is up $4.7 million in Q2 2013 as compared to Q2 2012 primarily due to the sale of $79 million of conduit loans which resulted in $4.5 million of profit during the quarter.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense for the second quarter is down $800 000 compared to the second quarter of last year due to lower outstanding debt and lower interest cost and $25 million of subordinated debt that flipped from a fixed rate of interest to a floating rate of interest during the second quarter of last year.
Property operating expenses for second quarter of this year increased by $1.4 million as compared to the second quarter of last year primarily due to the two properties we acquired late in the second quarter of 2012 and the one property we acquired in October 2012.
In our existing portfolio real estate tax expense is increased in the second quarter of this year due to property tax refunds that we received in the second quarter of last year.
The improvement in rental revenue and stability of our property operating expenses improved net operating income by $900 000 to $12.9 million for second quarter of this year a 7% increase since the second quarter of last year.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are down to approximately 17% of total revenue in the second quarter of this year as compared to 19% of total revenue in the second quarter of last year.
While we are growing a business platform we’re being mindful of our expenses and managing them effectively.
For the second quarter of 2013 operating income was $14.7 million a 126% increase over the second quarter operating income of $6.5 million last year.
That is an $8.2 million increase quarter-to-quarter.
As with prior quarters we reported a GAAP net loss for the second quarter of this year of $66 million or $0.94 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $76 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes and the fair value of our various financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during this quarter of this year.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all of our overcollateralization tests.
At June 30 2013 CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 126.8% above the required level of 116.2%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of 117.7% above the required level of 111.07%.
These OC test results are largely unchanged compared to year-end 2012.
As of June 30 2013 we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investment.
We ended the quarter with $468 million of capital available for investment comprised of $60 million cash on hand $238 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse lines $135 million of availability under our bridge loan facility and $35 million of remaining commitment from Almanacs affiliate.
Scott this concludes the finance report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Before opening up the call for questions I’d like to provide a brief update regarding Independent Realty Trust a RAIT sponsored and managed multifamily equity REIT.
IRT has begun marketing efforts for an underwritten public offering of 4 million shares of its common stock with an expected price range between $10 and $11 per share.
IRT’s common stock has been approved for listing subject to final notice of issuance on the New York Stock Exchange MKT.
As this time I am limited in my ability to discuss this offering and direct you to IRT’s filed amendment as Andres has mentioned earlier.
At this time operator let’s open the call up to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from the line of Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
Please proceed.
On the fair value can you tell us how much of the $76 million was Taberna and then maybe go into a little bit of discussion on the commercial real estate the CMBS business.
It looks like you sold only a fraction of which you originated and whether there was any impact on fair value there and where you’re seeing margins on that business? I’ll take the second part of your question first Jason if that’s okay.
The CMBS business as we stated we originated over $170 million of loans and we contributed to three different securitizations during the quarter.
One of those securitizations closed at the very end of the second quarter but we had to have our loans closed by I think it was the first week in June in order to be included in that securitization.
Every loan that we had closed up through that point in the beginning of June was sold.
There were no kick outs.
We weren’t holding anything further on our balance sheet at that time.
But then we continue to originate loans close loans through the end of June the last three weeks and that’s the difference between the $171 million that we originated and the $80 million that we sold.
We were very fortunate because the loans that we had originated and closed early in the quarter were all sold prior to the turmoil.
The loans that we closed at the end of June were priced accordingly as spreads widened.
So things worked out very well in that regard.
So hopefully that answers your question and Jim can take the first part.
Sure.
Jason Jim here.
The mark-to-market on the liabilities was just around $84 million and the mark-to-market on the assets and the Almanacs warrants was right around $8 million positive.
And let me just clarify.
I misspoke.
It was $139 million of conduit loans we originated.
The $170 million was all loans.
And so if I think about that right the right conclusion there is that there was no impact from the widening of the CMBS spreads in the second quarter and we shouldn’t expect any given that the last loans originated were four deals and they were priced property for the current environment.
So there is no impact expected in the third quarter.
That's the right conclusion? That’s correct.
Okay that’s great.
And then the CMBS deal already looks great on that.
I wasn’t expecting you to have such flexibility on the funded portion where you could continue to originate a ramp into it.
Does that change the way you think about that business developing? Is that a little bit better of a structure than you had anticipated at the beginning? Well it's a structure that we were working on from day one.
We were pleased that the rating agencies and the bond buyers were agreeable to it.
And it does as you say give us some flexibility.
Clearly the loans that we will fund to close out that pool will look exactly like and be rated similar to the loans that we closed before.
So while there is flexibility on the timing of the closing of the loans the loans are all going to look exactly like the existing pool.
Great and then one last one and I’ll jump out.
The fee and other income line Jim was there anything going on there? Maybe it could break it out because it looks like if I'm doing my math right which could be totally wrong $4.5 million of that fee and other income line was from the gain on the CMBS business.
Could you just give us a little bit more color on what the rest of it was? Of the fee and other line $4.5 million was from securitization business but just under $400 000 was associated with the management fees we get for managing the Taberna One securitization.
About $1 million was associated with property management fees and reimbursement income associated with our property management business and there is about $700 000 of other income comprised of some other asset managed fees as well as some settlements from legal transactions that occurred.
And our next question will come from David Walrod at Ladenburg.
Please proceed.
I wanted to clarify on the securitization business Scott in your prepared remarks you said that due to the rate volatility that several deals didn’t close before the end of the quarter.
Is that to imply then that July was a very active month as those deals closed in July or is July has the quarter started up more steady as you had planned it all along? July has been very active David.
Okay so some of the deals did close in July.
And then my next question was you raised capital common stock late in March.
How long did it take you to deploy that capital and what sort of a drag do you think it caused on your results this quarter.
You have to remember let me go back.
The capital it comes in and goes out as we sell loans into the securitization.
So the fact that we had I think Jim reported $60 million of available cash at the end of the quarter that you have to remember is after our third securitization that we contributed loans and two closed right at the end of June.
So the capital has been put to work throughout the quarter.
It was necessary for us have raised it.
And it's used and then it comes back.
That's just the way the CMBS business is.
We originate and we sell we originate we sell and that capital is necessary to continue to fund that business.
I just didn’t know sometimes it takes some time to get the capital deployed and that can cause temporary drag on earnings.
I would tell you that the capital was not fully deployed until near the end of the second quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Jon Evans with JWest LLC.
Please proceed.
I think last quarter you gave us statistic of you had $180 million kind of under contract didn't know if you'd close them.
Would you be willing to tell us what you got under contract or talk about the pipeline as you go into the September quarter? What I am comfortable telling you is that the pipeline is full it continues to grow and we have the same view of the loan origination business? I did say $180 million; we got $171 million notwithstanding the turmoil.
It would have been more and we believe that the second quarter we should continue to see similar growth for the third quarter.
So when you say similar growth are you talking about similar growth sequentially? Because you went from $90 million to $170 million.
Are you going to see that kind of sequential growth? Are just talking about $170 million again? Beyond the $170 million.
We believe that the third quarter loan originations will be higher than they were in the second quarter that we will continue growing.
You have to remember and I know it sounds like I am hedging it's a lumpy business.
And when you have situations.
No I get that.
You missed it by $10 million but it moved into July.
But can you give us a sense of; it would be helpful if you could us any kind of range or anything? Would you hope to grow 5% or 10% sequentially if you are successful? We all know.
John if you are not going to hold me to it I will tell you that there is $265 million in the third quarter that we have under application to close in the third floor.
Whether you close them all we all know that there is issues that happen in the market and things wiggle.
The other question I have for you is can you talk a little bit about your projected free cash flow? So you made that statement in many slides the $0.93 to a $1.23.
You didn't update that? Can you just give us a sense; are you still comfortable with that projection for this year with those two?  Sure this is Jim Sebra.
We're in process of getting that slide putting that presentation out over the next couple of days.
Yes we're comfortable kind of still in that kind of projection range.
And then the other question is I understand there is a lag to how you deploy the money and that you have to deploy the money and then you have to start earning.
You get the fees immediately but then you have to start earning on the asset especially on the mez piece that you keep or the residual IO.
Can you help us understand; let's just assume you did $1 kind of in the middle or the lower end of that range.
How do we think about the payout of a dollar on a year-end in projected cash flow? Because if you look at your guidance I know you want to be very conservative.
But how should we think about the payout matriculating over time? We right now we're at approximate 65% payout ratio of our free cash in the second quarter.
And the 65% obviously is a level that the Board has approved.
They look at it each quarter and we expect our free cash to continue to increase.
But I guess the question I didn't pose it very well I apologize.
Do you think the 65% increases or do you think you stay just kind of in that 65% range and then the increases that we'll get is as the business increases.
Again that’s a decision that the Board makes on a quarterly basis looking at the business at that moment and then also forward.
So I can’t really sit here today and tell you what the board is going to do at the end of the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
But we have had it pretty steady in the mid-60s payout ratio area and we do expect free cash flow to increase.
So I don’t know how I can give you any more of the definitive answer.
That’s helpful.
And then the last question I’d like to ask you is you’ve seen a lot of progress on your multifamily and obviously your occupancy has stayed pretty strong at 92.6.
We’ve seen steady increases in your average effective rate per square foot.
It’s kind of just continue to slowly go up and you’re at 727 now in multifamily.
Do you expect that kind of continue to increase as we go through the next 12 months or can you just talk a little bit? I know this businesses very regional number one and you have rents rolling over constantly.
So can you give us any kind of sense of your thoughts on rates there? I love the multifamily business.
I think that there is still room for rental increases within our portfolio.
Most of the properties in our portfolio are in what I would refer to as secondary markets.
There is a lack of new construction in those markets.
Most of the new construction you hear about is in the primary coastal markets.
We’re in downtown urban areas.
We are still seeing population growth.
You still have a situation where homeownership is under pressure.
When you put all that together you have the dynamic for continued stable high occupancy rates and landlords having the ability to push rents.
So we believe that there are still room for us to continue pushing rents in this 5% range per year and don’t see any reason that it should stop at least for the next couple of years.
It’s hard to look out beyond that period of time.
No I understand.
And I do apologize because I do have one last question.
You made a big strive this quarter sequentially on your office occupancy.
I know that’s been a little bit of a tough area for you.
Can you talk a little bit about continuing to see any kind of momentum on the office side? We’re seeing good trends.
There has been some momentum.
It takes an awful long time to actually source and then negotiate and enter into an office lease but what we’re seeing is we’re seeing increased demand and tenants putting out RFPs and brokers bringing us tenants.
That has increased over the last year and it looks to continue increasing.
But again that like the loan closing business is a little bit different than leasing a multifamily building.
That again is a lumpy business because the tenants take so much space.
And our next question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
With respect to your hybrid CMBS and we’ll try not to use the three letter work CLO if you'd prefer because I detect you’d rather call it a floating rate CMBS which we will comply with.
In addition to be in non-recourse match funded I'm assuming you are all in interest expense here maybe some benefit you may have some pick up relative to the bank lines.
If I’m correct and if I’m not please tell me so but if I am could you just approximate in BTS how much all in interest cost saving there might be under this structure versus using bank financing? Let me talk about the warehouse line that we use.
That’s LIBOR plus 250 at a 50% leverage.
The floating rate CMBS liabilities are LIBOR plus 185 at 75% leverage.
So it’s a significant pick up.
And when you say leverage you mean advanced rare right…  Advanced I would say… Leverage of one to one right… We’re one to one on the bank line.
We’re three to one on the CMBS.
Which is huge and so their fees on both sides but we can look at L plus 185 and L plus 250 and pretty much figure out there should some net benefit I assume in actual interest cost.
Yes but Jim is also now correcting me.
It’s LIBOR plus 200 on the bank line not 250.
Okay.
So it maybe more of a factor of enhanced non-recourse leverage the necessarily basis point pickup? And let’s not lose sight of the fact that it is non-recourse match funded.
There are no mark-to-markets.
There is no OC or IC test.
This is great financing for these types of loans.
It truly is a better model because we all know what happened with CMBS CDOs and the commercial mortgage REITs and OA that had whole loans on bank credit facilities.
Some are not with us anymore.
So I applaud you for the structure and I think it means a lot for our business here in commercial mortgage REITs going forward that we’ve got this kind of funding.
My last thing I said I'd be brief.
On the conduit this is probably nitpicky but we have had some obviously pricing dislocations going everywhere in credit assets.
So I’m looking at year-to-date your fees as a percentage of loan principal sold and I don’t know whether just call that fee margin or gain on sale margin whatever the right terminology but year-to-date you are 6.4% of principal and the second quarter worked out about 5.7% Do you see any trend there or what for modeling purpose what would be a comfortable range of say fee margin as a percentage of loans sold looking forward over the next 6 to 9 months.
I'd rather be conservative then aggressive? Well we’ve always maintained that normalized that the gain on the sale should be 3 to 4 points.
And again if you recognized that the warehousing of these loans is three to one you’re still looking at 12% or 12 points on the equity piece and that’s why we love this business.
We’re doing smaller loans as we have always discussed and as such there is much competition and accordingly we’ve been able to price them a little bit wider.
I don’t think that will stay that way forever but we’re still able to maintain those margins.
And you’re actually beating your long term expectation but overtime you’re saying you would expect it to kind of narrow back down to maybe 300 to 400 basis points? Yes that’s correct.
Ladies and gentleman this concludes the question and answer portion for today’s call.
I would now like to turn the call back over to you Scott Schaeffer for closing comments.
Well thank you and thanks again for joining us and we look forward to sharing our progress with your next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may all disconnect.
Good day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the quarter three 2013 RAIT Financial Trust earnings conference call hosted by Andres Viroslav.
My name is Mina and I am the event coordinator.
(Operator Instructions) And now I would like to hand over to Andres.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mina and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's third quarter 2013 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 79797103.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report another solid quarter for RAIT.
Our results this quarter when compared to the third quarter of 2012 demonstrate continuing improvement in all aspects of our business.
I would like to start with some highlights.
AFFO increased 54% to $23 million.
Total revenue increased 20% to $62 million.
Operating income increased 88% to $18 million.
In addition net operating income from our portfolio of owned properties increased to $14 million or 13% over the third quarter of 2012.
We're reporting growth in revenue categories net interest margin rental revenue and fee income.
This growth plus stable credit performance within our existing loan portfolio remain the key drivers of our performance.
Loan production of $167 million for the quarter was flat when compared to the second quarter of 2013 and this was caused mostly by the volatility and uncertainty surrounding long-term interest rate.
However we experienced the sharp increase in quarterly loan production from only $22 million originated during the third quarter of 2012.
As we look forward now that some of the uncertainty has been removed from the market.
We are expanding our loan origination team and expect loan origination volumes to continue trending upward over time.
During the quarter we sold $180 million of conduit loans into three different fixed rate CMBS transactions and we closed the $135 million floating rate securitization for our bridge lending business.
Bridge loan production has been steadily increasing and we are beginning to aggregate loans for our second floating rate securitization.
During the third quarter our subsidiary Independence Realty Trust an apartment property equity REIT completed its underwritten public offering of 4 million shares of IRT common stock for $8.50 per share raising gross proceeds of $34 million.
And we listed IRT common stock on the NYSE MKT.
RAIT owns approximately 5.8 million shares representing 60% of IRT's outstanding common stock.
A RAIT subsidiary is IRT's external advisor for which we've received advisory fees and we also received distributions on our IRT common stock.
IRT recently closed on its first acquisition since the capital raise and has entered into agreements to purchase additional properties effectively deploying all of the capital raised from the public offering.
In addition IRT has entered into a $20 million acquisition line of credit with Huntington National Bank.
As a result of the performance across our core businesses RAIT's board announced our fifth consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.15 per share for the third quarter of 2013 representing a 67% increase from the third quarter of 2012 dividend of $0.09.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Sebra to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
During the third quarter AFFO per share increased 10% to $0.33 up from $0.30 in the third quarter of 2012.
Compared to Q3 2012 investment interest income was up $2.4 million due to increased loan production while interest expense was down $100 000 primarily due to reduced hedging cost offset by increased interest expense associated with our lending activity.
During the third quarter we completed a floating rate CMBS securitization and issued $101 million of investment grade securities to finance $135 million of floating rate bridge loans.
RAIT retained $34 million of equity in this transaction.
As a result net interest margin increased $2.3 million a 10% increase.
For the three months ended September 30 2013 our loan production was $167.5 million with a $130 million associated with our conduit loan business.
RAIT's originated $433 million of loan during the nine-month period ended September 30 and $285 million of loan in the nine-month period ended September 30 of last year.
The new loans we are closing have underwritten debt yields ranging from 8% to 16%.
As we've discussed on previous calls the interest rate hedges in our RAIT I and RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see approximately $3.9 million of reduced hedging costs next year as $89 million of notional expires according to its terms.
From a portfolio perspective our credit statistics are stable with our non-accrual loans decreasing to $45.3 million or 4.1% of our loan portfolio.
During the quarter we completed the workout on two loans totaling $20 million and those assets are now performing.
Our current loan loss reserves are $23 million or 51% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that we are adequately reserved for any potential future losses.
Rental income increased by 11% or $2.8 million in Q3 2013 as compared to Q3 last year due primarily to five properties we acquired since the third quarter of last year as well as continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across our real estate portfolio.
The five properties we acquired made up $2 million of this increase quarter-over-quarter.
The remaining $800 000 of increase is due to increased occupancy and improvement in rental rates within our multi-family portfolio.
With respect to our portfolio as a whole multi-family occupancy at the end of the quarter was 92.5% up from 90.2% in Q3 2012.
Average office and retail occupancy was stable at approximately 72% at quarter end.
Rental rates also continued to improve within our multi-family portfolio increasing to $753 per unit per month during Q3 2013 just under an 8% increase since third quarter of last year.
Lastly fee and other income is up $5.1 million this quarter as compared to Q3 of last year primarily due to the sale of $180.7 million of conduit loans which resulted in approximately $7.2 million of profit during the current quarter.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense for Q3 2013 is down $200 000 compared to the third quarter of last year due to lower outstanding debt this quarter compared to last year.
Property operating expenses for Q3 2013 increased by $1.3 million as compared to the third quarter of last year primarily due to the five properties we acquired since the third quarter of last year.
Overall the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $13.7 million an increase of $1.6 million or 13% from third quarter of last year.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are down to approximately 16% of total revenue in Q3 2013 as compared to 19% of total revenue in the Q3 2012.
We continue to manage our expenses as we continue to grow our business.
For the third quarter of 2013 operating income was $17.7 million an 88% increase over the third quarter of last year operating income of $9.4 million.
This is an $8.3 million increase quarter-to-quarter.
As with prior quarters we reported a GAAP net loss for Q3 2013 of $17 million or $0.24 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $24 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes in the fair value of our financial instruments was an increase in market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during the third quarter.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all of our overcollateralization tests.
CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116.2%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of a 118% above the required level of 111.7%.
These OC tests are largely unchanged compared to yearend 2012.
As of September 30 2013 we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investments.
We ended the quarter with $116 million of cash on hand primarily due to the cycle of our conduit loan business plus the increased IRT's cash balance from the public offering.
Our intra-quarter cash balances are generally lower as we fund conduit loans while our ending quarterly cash balances are higher as we receive proceeds in from the sale those conduit loan II securitizations.
We ended the quarter with $570 million of capital available for investment comprised of a $117 million of cash on hand $219 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse funds $150 million of availability under our bridge loan facility $49 million of availability from our July floating rate securitization and $35 million of remaining commitment from Almanacs affiliate.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
I think at this time operator we'd like to open up the call for questions.
And your first question is coming from Steve DeLaney JMP Securities.
Jim as you ran through he numbers very quickly I wanted to ask you about the [ph] Worcester funding capacity.
I've got most of the details what was your total number of funding capacity? Total cash available for investment is $570 million.
So I think everything is so clear in the press release with the way you laid out the only thing I wanted to ask about was in the real estate performance table it looks like your multifamily and office properties from an occupancy standpoint are performing very well.
Retail seems to be the weak area there.
And I know Sam Zell quoted this week at a conference in Chicago just talking about the challenges to retail.
Do you see that drop in occupancy from 73 to 69 is that sort of broad indication of what's going with retail or is it possibly just idiosyncratic to a few properties that you have? Just curious how you feel about that segment versus the other two within your real estate portfolio? Steve I believe it's more idiosyncratic.
Our retail portfolio was not that large a tenant here or there makes a big difference regarding occupancy.
We have had some leasing success but at the same time we've lost a couple of tenants.
And as you can see over the last few quarters it's been relatively stable.
So we actually expect going forward that that occupancy will now start creeping up and that's we were projecting internally.
And if we look at the performance numbers that you've had with gross rental income up 11% year-over-year multifamily per unit up 8% and the positive occupancy trends.
As you look out into 2014 maybe we should just talk about gross rental income because that's the big bucket the 11%.
So how do you feel about that going forward as far our modeling purposes? It was 2013 sort of a breakout year and as you see it and should we reel that back to something a little more conservative sort of on a 2014 over 2013 outlook? We should reel it back a little bit.
The 8% increase in average rents I think was somewhat unique to 2013 and I think we experienced the same number in 2012.
But we're not going to be able to do that every year.
And what we're looking at internally is a 3% to 5% increase continuing for 2014.
Your next question is coming from the line of Jason Stewart Compass Point.
Scott last quarter you gave us some indication of what the pipeline looked like and I think it was $265 million or so.
I was hoping you could give us an update on where you thought that stood today? And maybe a little color if the market has changed with this recent decline in rates.
How that's impacted things? Well if you remember Jason I gave it reluctantly because it's a chumpy-lumpy business.
And that's what it looked like at the beginning of the quarter and then as interest rates moved around and with the volatility we were able to close a $167 million in the quarter.
The pipeline as we look forward is very strong.
We have seen an uptick in loan opportunities for the fourth quarter.
But at this point and at this time I think it's really I'll say inappropriate for me to give any real guidance on numbers just because we're only 30 days into the quarter and it's a very volatile business.
But I will tell you that we're seeing opportunities continue to increase.
And then if listened and wrote notes correctly it sounded like you said you were building a portfolio for your second floating rate transactions but it sounded like you still had some funding capacity left in 2013-FL1 is that right? And if so could you give us an idea of how much was left on that one? That's correct.
As of now we have about $20 million and we expect that to be funded within the next couple of weeks.
And we are actually working underwriting on loans that will be aggregated now for the next securitization.
And that will probably be a 2014 event correct? At this point it probably will be yes.
One other question and then I'll jump back into the queue.
The fee income and other income line items excluding the gain on sale from the loans originated and sold.
Was there any other one-time items' or moving parts to that one item? No there wasn't Jason.
And then could you give us just the number of loans originated and carried over the quarter so originated but not sold that you would sell in 4Q if there are any? It's a small number and that's why our cash balance was so large at the end of the quarter because there was a securitization that happened right at the end of the September that we sold most of the loans into at that point.
I don't know off-hand the number of loans but we can get that for you.
Your next question is coming from the line of David Walrod from Ladenburg.
A quick housekeeping question and then one more conceptual.
On the housekeeping the other income expense line was about $4 million.
Can you give us some color as to what went through there this quarter? That was expenses that were accrued relative to the IRT business when it was a non-traded REIT.
And since we changed direction into the IPO and listed the shares we decided to write-off those accrued expenses in the third quarter.
And then more conceptually you added a piece of property in your real estate portfolio.
Can you talk about your desire to grow that in the RAIT vehicle? And how the decisions are made as far as to put properties into RAIT or into IRT? IRT will be the third-party acquisition multifamily vehicle going forward.
RAIT will not be out bidding on unrelated multifamily assets.
The assets that RAIT did acquired during the quarter were all assets that RAIT had an interest in already either a preferred equity interest or some other type of loan interest where the borrower told us that they were interested in selling the property and we were able to negotiate a purchase price that we felt was attractive at the time and keep the property from going to market.
Your next question is coming from the line of Brian Gonick from Senvest.
Can you tell us what cash flow per share was in the quarter? It was $0.23 per share Brian.
It was $0.23? $0.23 yes.
So there was basically $0.10 of non-cash items is that right? Between AFFO of $0.33 and $0.23 yes.
So do you expect that Q4 will be sequentially higher because your guidance is $0.90 to $0.95 for the year right on cash flow per share which will imply a range of $0.25 to $0.30 for the quarter? We're comfortable with the guidance that we've given Brian.
And 60% on the dividend payout ratio or would it be higher there because this quarter it looks like its 65%? Well it's been 65% for a couple of quarters.
And as I say on every conference call that it will be up to the board as a whole to determine what we do in the fourth quarter.
But I believe it has been at 65% for at least a couple of quarters now.
And the IRT expenses the $3million in change the other expense you had in the quarter that's a non-recurring item right.
Did that impact cash flow in the quarter or was that a non-cash write-off? It was a non-cash write-off of which expenses that we had incurred and we had capitalized to accrued I guess capitalized starting in 2011 when we started with the IRT as a non-traded REIT.
There are no further questions.
And now I hand the call back over to Scott Schaeffer for further closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thanks for joining us today.
And we look forward to discussing our next quarter's progress with you after the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you very much Mr.
Schaeffer.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
And thanks for joining.
Have a very good day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2013 RAIT Financial Trust earnings conference call.
My name is Glenn and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav Managing Director Corporate Communications; please proceed sir.
Thank you Glenn and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com.
There will a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 98992922.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.raitft.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report another solid year of growth.
Our results this year when compared to 2012 demonstrate the strength and effectiveness of our commercial real estate platform.
I would like to start with some highlights.
Total revenues for the year increased 23% to $247 million.
Operating income increased to 113% to $65 million.
Fee and other income increased 125% to $29 million and AFFO for the year increased 64% to $88 million.
We are reporting growth in all revenue categories; net interest margin rental revenue and fee income.
This growth when combined with stable credit performance within our existing portfolio remains the key drivers of our performance.
Gross loan production was up over 60% in 2013 as we met our goals for generating over $600 million of loans $170 million was funded during the fourth quarter.
As you look forward we expect loan origination volumes especially in our shorter term floating rate bridge landing business to increase significantly from 2013 levels.
Our goal for 2014 is for total loan originations to exceed $1 billion effectively doubling 2013’s loan production.
At this point we expect to originate more floating rate bridge loans in 2014 than fixed-rate conduit loans.
We recently announced the new facility with UBS to support the growth in our floating rate bridge lending business and we are currently aggregating loans for our second floating rate securitization which should close early in the second quarter.
We then expect a follow-up with another floating rate securitization in the third quarter of this year.
We currently have in excess of 250 million of loans consisting of 206 million floating rate bridge loans 53 million fixed-rate conduit loans and $2 million mez loans which should close by end of first quarter.
During 2013 we sold 407 million conduit loans into ten different CMBS transactions generating $18.4 million of fee income.
Looking forward and as expected competition in the fixed-rate conduit lending at securitization market has quickly increased.
We expect this competition will resolve in tighter splits and lower profitability than we historically experienced on a loan-by-loan basis.
In response to this additional competition we are focused on increasing loan volumes in our floating rate bridge lending business well risk adjusted returns remains long.
Our own real estate continues to provide stability to the overall portfolio.
The multifamily properties continue to perform well and experienced year-over-year same-store rent growth 5%.
Our subsidiary independent Realty trust and apartment property equity REIT which we externally advice and consolidate recently completed a secondary offering of common stock racing gross proceeds of $67 million.
We expect to deploy all of the capital from this offering by the end of the first quarter.
RAIT currently owns approximately 7 million shares representing 39% of IRTs outstanding common stock.
As a result of the performance across our core businesses in 2013 RAIT's board announced our sixth consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.16 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013.
During 2013 RAIT declared $0.56 of common dividend per share representing a 60% increase from the 2012 common dividend of $0.35 per common share.
The stock also performed well in 2013 increasing 59%.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
AFFO for the fourth quarter was $0.34 per share or $24.1 up $7.3 million or 43% from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Revenues increased $12.7 million quarter to quarter as lending continue to grow and we continue to grow our rental income additional property ownership and occupancy and rental rate improvement.
This revenue growth was offset by $5.9 million of additional expenses leading to operating income growth of $6.8 million quarter-to-quarter a 60% increase over 2012.
We did report a GAAP net loss for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $134.5 million or $1.90 per share due primarily to $144 million of non-cash fair value adjustments in the legacy Taberna portfolios.
‘ Now let’s turn to the annual results.
For the year AFFO was $87.7 million up $34.3 million or 64% from fiscal year 2012.
AFFO per share increased 17% to $1.29 for 2013 up from $1.10 for the year ended December 31 2012.
Compared to 2012 investment interest income was up $17.4 million due to increased loan production while investment interest expense was down $2.3 million primarily due to reduced hedging cost offset by increased interest expense associated with other lending activities.
During 2013 we reentered the securitization market and completed a RAIT sponsored floating rate CMBS securitization and issued $101 million of investment grade securities to finance $135 million of floating rate bridge loans.
RAIT retained $34 million of equity in this transaction.
We also installed $407 million of loans into 10 different CMBS transactions.
For 2013 our loan production was $603 million as compared to $375 million of loan production in 2012.
As we discussed previously the interest rate hedges in our RAIT one and RAIT two securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR period we expect to see $3.9 million of reduced hedging cost this year as compared to 2013 as hedges continued to expire according to their terms.
From a portfolio perspective our credit statistics are stable with our non-accrual loans at approximately $37 million or 3.3% of our loan portfolio.
This is a decrease of $32 million or 46% since 2012.
Our current loan loss reserves are $22.9 million or 62% or our non-accrual loans and we believe that we’re adequately reserved for any future potential losses.
Rental income increased by 10% of $10.4 million in 2013 as compared to 2012.
This increase is a result of; one $4.3 million of four properties we acquired during 2012 $2.6 million from three properties acquired during 2012 and present for full year in 2013 and $3.5 million from continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across our real-estate portfolio.
With respect to our portfolio home multi-family occupancy at the end of 2013 was 92.2% up from 90% at the end of 2012.
Average office and retail occupancy was stable at approximately 73% at year-end.
Rental rates also continue to improve with multi-family rates increasing to $756 per unit per month at the end of the fourth quarter 2013 a 4% increase since the fourth quarter of 2012.
Lastly fee and other income is up $16 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to the sale of $407 million of conduit loans which resulted in $18.4 million of profit during 2013.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note; interest expense for 2013 is down $2.1 million compared to the 2012 due to lower outstanding debt in 2013 as compared to 2012.
Property operating expenses for 2013 increased by $4.4 million as compared to 2012 this increase is a result of $1.9 million associated with four new properties acquired during 2013 $1.7 million from three properties acquired during 2012 and present for a full year in 2013 and $900 000 of increases in the existing properties primarily for utilities real estate taxes and property insurance.
Overall the net operating income of our real-estate portfolio was $53.3 million in 2013 an increase of $5.9 million or 12% from 2012.
Combined compensation and administrative expenses are down to approximately 17% of total revenue in 2013 as compared to 19% of total revenue in 2012.
We continued to manage our expenses effectively as we grow our business.
Loan loss provisions increased to $3 million in 2013 from $2 million in 2012 as our portfolio of balance sheet loans increased in 2013.
For 2013 operating income was $64.9 million a 113% increase over the 2012 operating income of $30.5 million.
That is a $34.4 million increase year-to-year.
As with prior results we reported a GAAP net loss for 2013 of $308 million or $4.54 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $344 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of the negative changes and the fair value of our financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during 2013.
The effect of which narrows that gap between our adjusted book value and our GAAP book value.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our indicator of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDO we continue to meet all the overcollateralization test.
CRE I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 115%.
CRE II reported an OC test of 119% above the required level of 112%.
These OC test results are largely unchanged compared to year-end 2012.
As of the year end we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investments.
We ended the quarter with $486 million of capital available for investment comprised of $89 million of cash on hand $219 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse lines $143 million of availability under our bridge loan facility and $35 million of remaining commitment from Almanacs affiliate.
In our continuing effort to maintain adequate capital for investment we access the capital markets three times in the last 90 days.
First in December 2013 we completed $125 million 4% convertible debt offerings.
We used these proceeds in this offering to repurchase $80 million of our 7% convertible debt.
Second in January 2014 we completed a 10 million common share offering and raised net proceeds of $83 million.
All of these proceeds are being used to fund our pipeline of loans.
Lastly in January 2014 Independence Realty Trust our consolidated subsidiary completed an 8 million common share offering and raised net proceeds of $63 million.
We have already deployed approximately 29 million of these proceeds into an apartment property in Waukegan Illinois and expect to acquire additional private properties in the near term.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator let’s open the call up for questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
Please proceed.
On the sixth conduit business I was just hoping if you give us a little bit more color about what’s going on in the competitive dynamics of the market there if its loan structure size borrower demand that’s causing a little bit of shift in expectations for volume there?  It is additional competition from loan originators and funders.
The borrower demand remains strong but there are more players in the marketplace today and there appear to be more coming in everyday.
And what that’s doing is it’s driving down the spreads because it’s just a more competitive marketplace supply and demand theory and as you drive down the spread it means that obviously when you go to sell a loan the profitability is lower.
So what we are indicating is that based upon the same volume you will see going forward lower profitability although we do believe that we can increase volume from prior years.
Right.
And it looks like in the fourth quarter if I can hear this correctly the gain on sale margin for conduit was still on the high 3% range so not much degradation in margin yet but what you are saying is we should expect that to occur in 2014 or is my math off?  Yes that’s correct.
Okay.
And then direct real estate lending there is a line in the release that just talks about opportunistic acquisitions.
And I know in the past it’s been if you can buy a property from some owner that you have an interest in already that’s been the strategy is that that strategy going forward or you are thinking you will make more direct open market acquisitions of direct real estate?  No it’s the strategy as you laid it out that where we see an opportunity to acquire property off market typically where we already have some relationship with the seller that’s what we are looking to do.
We are not out actively within RAIT out actively seeking to acquire properties.
IRT is out seeking to acquire multi-family properties but that’s Independence Realty Trust that’s not RAIT.
Got it.
One last one and I will jump out.
I know you typically provided some guidance at least last year and it’s been very helpful for folks is that something that you expect to give investors guidance on this year for cash flow?  We do we are just tightening up our numbers based upon the competition in the conduit space and the increase in bridge on balance sheet lending.
We want to make sure that the assumptions that we are using are accurate and we expect to have something available in the near term.
(Operator Instructions) At this time we have no further questions.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer CEO for closing.
Thank you.
We continue executing on our gross strategy and look forward to sharing our progress with you in the next quarter.
And thanks for joining our call today and your continued interest in RAIT.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Emily and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to hand the call over to Andres Viroslav.
Please proceed.
Corporate Communications</strong> Thank you Emily and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s first quarter 2014 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 10523484.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
We are pleased to report a quarter of significant growth in loan production and continued growth and stability in our portfolio of owned real estate.
Our results this quarter as compared to the quarter ended March 2013 continue to demonstrate the depth of our commercial real estate platform.
As usual let’s start with some highlights.
Total revenues grew 15.4% to $67.3 million for the quarter ended March 31.
Net interest margin from our loan portfolio increased 17% to $27.8 million.
Rental income from our property portfolio increased 29% to $35.2 million and net operating income increased 34% to $17.1 million.
Cash available for distribution or CAD is a new performance measure increased 58% to $17.2 million.
As we have previously discussed on our calls we are growing our on balance sheet floating rate bridge lending business.
Though it’s more capital intensive than our fixed rate conduit loans for sale business the bridge lending which is RAIT’s historical core business offers attractive risk adjusted returns and a stable recurring stream of interest income.
During the first quarter we originated $224.5 million of new loans $175.6 million were bridge loans which surpassed the $130 million of bridge loans that we produced for all of 2013.
We also closed $46 million of conduit and $3 million of mezzanine loans during the first quarter.
In addition since the end of the first quarter we closed an additional $93 million of loans and have $240 million of loans in our pipeline which are targeting to close before the end of the second quarter.
Of course the actual amount of loan closings during the quarter may change as we continue the underwriting and due diligence process.
In order to support this growth we entered into a new warehouse facility with UBS this past January.
We closed two capital raises one in January one in April and we completed our second RAIT sponsored floating rate CMBS transaction in April.
In our second floating rate CMBS transaction we match funded $196 million of first lien bridge loans with non-recourse financing by selling $156 million of investment grade bonds that can fulfill the loans with RAIT retaining the $40 million residual interest which should generate return in the high-teens to RAIT.
The liability is priced at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 179 which is an improvement from the LIBOR plus 185 pricing of our first floating rate CMBS securitization which closed in July of last year.
We also increased the advance rate to 79.5% from the 75% advance rate on our first securitization.
We expect to continue to use CMBS transactions like this to finance our bridge lending business going forward.
Our own real estate continues to provide stability to the overall portfolio.
The multi-family properties continue to perform well and experienced year-over-year same store average rent per unit growth of 4.2%.
Our subsidiary Independent Realty Trust and apartment property equity REIT which we externally manage and consolidate acquired seven properties during the first quarter totaling 2180 units for $127 million of purchase cost and now owns 4970 apartment units.
RAIT currently owns approximately 7 million shares of stock representing 39% of IRT’s outstanding common stock.
On the asset and property management side of the business we expanded our property management capabilities and now control a retail focused property manager named Urban Retail Properties based in Chicago.
Urban currently manages 62 properties with 16.7 million square feet in 26 states.
With the addition of urban RAIT commercial real estate platform includes the ability to offer property management services for multi-family office and retail properties for us and third party property owners across the country.
Including Urban’s properties RAIT’s asset under management increased to $5.1 billion at March 31 2014.
As a result of this performance across our core businesses RAIT’s Board announced our seventh consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.17 per share or approximately 75% of cash for the first quarter of 2014.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Jim to review the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
Historically we have reported the key operating metrics to further clarify our earnings without the effect of the legacy Taberna securitization we are introducing cash available for distribution or CAD as a key performance measure.
For the first quarter CAD was $0.22 per share or $17.2 million.
This is a 58% increase over Q1 2013 where CAD was $10.8 million.
Compared to Q1 2013 investment interest income was up $3.7 million due to increased loan production while investment interest expense was down by $300 000 primarily due to reduced hedging costs offset by increased interest costs from our warehouse lending on floating rate loans for the first quarter.
For the first quarter our loan production was $225 million as compared to $95 million of loan production in the first quarter of 2013.
As we have discussed previously the interest rate hedges in our RAIT loan and RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see $2.9 million of reduced hedging costs over the remaining portion of this year when compared to the 2013 run rate as hedges continued to expire according to their terms.
From the credits perspective our non-accrual loans declined to $28 million and represent about 2.3% of our loan portfolio at March 31.
Our current loan loss reserves are $14.3 million or 51% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that we are adequately reserved for any future potential losses.
Rental income increased by 29% or $8 million in Q1 2014 this increase was primarily a result of the $7.1 million of rental income associated with properties acquired since March 31 of last year with $853 000 of increased rental income due to continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across the remaining properties.
Lastly fee and other income decreased approximately $2.9 million in Q1 2014 as profitability in our conduit loan sales declined when compared to Q1 last year.
We expect that profitability will normalize throughout the remainder of 2014 in the 2 to 4 point range.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note interest expense for Q1 2014 is up $1.9 million compared to Q1 2013 due primarily to $1.5 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance the real estate properties we acquired since the end of the first quarter last year.
Property operating expenses for Q1 2014 increased by $3.7 million as compared to Q1 last year this increase is the result of $2.9 million of operating expenses associated with properties acquired since March 31 last year and $480 000 of one-time real estate tax catch-ups for 2013 increased utility costs and other severe weather-related items that occurred in the first quarter of this year.
Without these one-time items property operating expenses on the historical portfolio increased $291 000 or 2.1%.
Overall the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $17.1 million in Q1 2014 an increase of $4.3 million from Q1 2013.
Combined comp and administrative expenses increased slightly to approximately 96% of total revenue in Q1 2014 as compared to 18% of total revenue in Q1 2013.
We did increase our loan loss provision to $1.0 million in Q1 2014 from $500 000 in the first quarter of last year.
This increase is a result of our increased production of on balance sheet loans in 2014.
We are reporting a GAAP net loss for Q1 2014 of $14.6 million or $0.18 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to the $24 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments.
The primary driver of those negative changes was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during 2014 the effect of which narrows that gap between our adjusted book value and GAAP book value.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of CAD is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all the over-collateralization tests.
CRE I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116%.
CRE II reported an OC test of 119% above the required level of 112%.
These OC test results are largely unchanged compared to year end 2013.
As of quarter end we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investments.
We ended the quarter with $486 million of capital available for investment comprised of $110 million of cash on hand $228 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse lines and $148 million of availability under our two bridge loan facilities.
We accessed the capital markets twice as we started the year.
First in January we completed a common stock offering of 10 million shares and raised $83 million of net process.
In April we completed a $60 million of 7.65% senior notes ands raised net proceeds of $58 million.
We also drew the remaining $35 million of availability under our $ 100 million commitment from Almanacs at quarter end.
All these proceeds are being used to fund our pipeline of loans.
Lastly in January 2014 Independence Realty Trust our consolidated sub completed an 8 million common share offering and raised net proceeds of $63 million.
All of these proceeds have been deployed in eight properties acquired by IRT so far in 2014.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thanks Jim.
I think at this time operator we would like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Okay.
Your first question comes from the line of Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Scott I was wondering if you could give us some more color on the competitive environment in the conduit origination market I mean I think can you give us some color on gain on sale but in terms of volume what are you seeing there? Is that still an opportunity to think that you can to get any cash flow this year or is it becoming too competitive for the return you are giving? No I don’t think it’s becoming too competitive.
I think it’s clearly more competitive than it was in 2013 especially in the space that we play which is in the smaller loan category.
The first question is always unique.
It’s always the weakest quarter for loan production.
Float rate I think a lot of it has to do with the loans that you close in the first quarter or many of them are sourced in the latter half of the fourth quarter which is it just happens to be a slower time in the world.
What we are seeing going forward is we are seeing loan volumes that I would assess that will be similar in volume for us on the conduit side of speaking as 2013 but the increased competitiveness has resulted in a reduced spreads or profitability.
So while we were getting 5 6 7 points of gain on sale last year you are seeing what Jim referred to is normalizing at 2 to 4 points.
We kind of always knew this would happen.
Clearly it happened a little more quickly than I anticipated but we still see it as a part of the business.
We still think that we will be able to clearly maintain the volume that we have generated in the past and hopefully increase it but for the rest of 2014 anyway I think pricing will be lower and result in that 2% to 4% range.
Yes.
And I guess that’s what happens when you amortize 60% 70% ROEs on the business people start to (cramp through) right? Yes it’s one of the downsides of being successful.
That’s helpful commentary.
And if you think about that in the bridge business are you seeing banks other lenders start to enter that product as well or is that still pretty (indiscernible) up? Well it’s really not that unique per se but it’s something where for us the market is much larger.
We still are – we are a non-recourse lender where most banks are not.
Banks still do not want to be at the 75% loan to value range especially not non-recourse.
So what we are seeing is tremendous growth opportunities on that side of the lending business.
We really jumped into it in earnest at the middle maybe in the middle half of last year because that’s when we were able to put the warehousing in place.
Now we are seeing increased warehousing capacity.
We have other banks coming to the same pools but as warehouse those loans for you we are able to match fund them through the floating rate securitizations.
So what I see going forward is real growth in increased volumes and good stable recurring net interest or growth in net interest margin from those floating rate loans.
It makes sense.
And then in terms of the provision how are you guys looking at the provision I mean obviously the more you prune balance sheet I think everybody would assume you have to think about provision then how should we look at that? I mean are we supposed to model that out over expected loss over the life of this product or is this rolling forward 12 months type provision that we should be thinking about? I think it’s a rolling forward provision.
Right now we have been adequately reserved for the legacy issues in the portfolio and we have increased it.
I think we put aside $1.5 million in the fourth quarter just because we had been at $0.5 million for the first three quarters of 2013.
And for 2014 based upon the production as we see it it shifted general provision of $1 million.
No specific analysis as to problem loans in the portfolio.
It’s just with the increased – with the increased production when we are comfortable with $1 million a quarter going forward.
The reserve represents just over 1% of the loan book which is relatively consistent with our industry practices.
Okay.
So as you grow by 1% number will be a fair number to model? Yes correct.
Okay.
One last one and then I will jump back.
The CAD number can you give us what the CAD would have been for the – or was for the fourth quarter? CAD was $0.27 for the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Alright thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you Jason.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Weiss with DSW Investment.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
In terms of the growth in assets under management and was that an acquisition the property manager or in Urban Retail Properties? It was a company that RAIT made a preferred equity investment in a number of years ago and we made the decision late in the fourth quarter that we were not comfortable with the direction of the company and under the rates afforded us in our previous investment we took control.
But is that a positive – does that positive substantial implications affected you are now the owner? I think it is.
Yes I think it will generate a recurring stream of management fees net profit management fees to RAIT and it’s had 62 properties that it manages which you will never know opportunities that will arise from being close to those assets the financing and/or otherwise.
And we think that the company in the current environment has a lot of future potential.
So we decided that I guess one way to say this we didn’t like the direction of the company at the time and that since we had the rights if they control we did.
Is it possible to give what your current overall fee base is on your assets under management? I will get that number for you and get back to you.
Okay.
On the – on your own portfolio just looking at your trends in retail obviously it’s going quite well on multi-family but if the retail occupancy trends have been headed down over the last year or so could you comment on that a little bit? Yes.
Occupancy is down a little bit.
Rental rate is up a little bit.
I am seeing her smiling because we are in the process of changing management companies on our own retail properties from the third-party that’s interested fee generating management companies that we were using that we have no interest in they were just managing for us because we didn’t have the capability.
So now we are going to turn them over open.
We are in the process of doing that.
I am hopeful that we will see some increase in performance but the retail properties that we have had difficulty and we are working them.
And I think in the better economic environment in the future they will obviously do better.
There was some repositioning involved and occupancy issues relate to the side effect I should say of that repositioning but I am thankful that it’s not worse.
And we think it will get much better under now that we can manage them ourselves or have the capability to manage them ourselves.
Okay.
And then just to follow-up a little bit on the prior question on the conduit loans versus bridge loans.
So I guess what my takeaway is that the sequential – some of the sequential decline in distributable cash reflects the absence of those higher margins on conduit loans.
And if that’s the case I guess my question is this is a good kind of base level looking forward through the rest of the year where that there won’t be additional drag from further changes in your issuance volume on conduits? I think it is a good base level.
I think you will see clearly growth from this point forward clearly in the – on balance sheet lending.
And I do think that the final three quarters and again this is a forward-looking statement without much to back it up other than looking at our pipelines and talking with our originators that the final three quarters of this year will be better from a conduit lending perspective than the first quarter was.
But having said that the conduit lending is a lumpy business the gain on sale some quarters are good some quarters are bad we had a good quarter in the third quarter and fourth quarter of last year.
And the first quarter clearly was not nearly as good.
That was one of the reasons that we talked about changing the strategy a little bit and focusing more on the on balance sheet bridge lending which yes you are not generating 3 4 5 point profit after holding a loan for three weeks and having levered it 3 to 1 but you are generating a 17% 18% return on your equity recurring with match funding.
So there is – we are not taking any interest rate risk.
It’s a more stable income strain.
And I think that we are going to be much more comfortable at a 75% payout ratio like we were in the first quarter on dividends makes upon that more stable income stream than we were with the lumpy stream relative to the conduit business.
What the bridge business also does for us is it’s a feeder pipeline if you will for the conduit because these are three to five-year loans transitional properties.
The borrower does this work increases his cash flow and his income and then looks to put permanent financing loans while we have the relationship and we have really for lack of a better term a last look at doing that permanent financing.
So it’s good recurring high-teens income net interest margin and then it becomes a feeder for the conduit business going forward.
On – then on your book value calculation and I think you – I think there was some commentary on this early on the call but I didn’t quite follow it but in regards to Taberna the Taberna adjustment has come down quite a bit.
Does that reflect a revaluation up of the Taberna liabilities or a revaluation down of the Taberna assets or some combination of the two? It’s a smaller increase in the value of the Taberna liabilities than what we have experienced in the past.
And I think I am answering your question in the prior quarters we had much larger market value increases in the liabilities and that’s why the GAAP losses were greater.
At some point these liabilities really can’t go any higher.
And I am – I believe we are getting near that time and that’s why it was a $24 million increase in liability expense in the first quarter.
And it does affect our GAAP book value but since we eliminate that for the adjusted book value calculation that’s why that spread is narrowing because GAAP book value was coming down but it doesn’t affect adjusted book value.
So again that GAAP becomes smaller each time.
I guess what I am asking is if on the chance that there eventually is some value to Taberna I am just curious why that value has reflected in your book value adjustments has come down so much? The book value – the Taberna effect in calculating adjusted book value effectively record our interest in Taberna at zero.
So if there is some improved value that is a nothing but a good guide from an adjusted book value standpoint.
Okay.
Then last question just on your land holdings I am just curious what those are more specifically and if there is – if those are something you might sell at some point? They are something you might sell at some point.
For sure they are largely beachfront parcels in Daytona Florida that were hotels.
The hotels were damaged in a hurricane in the mid 2000s.
And while the borrower was fighting with his insurance company he kept fighting up into the great recession and ended up filing for bankruptcy we had mezzanine loans.
We got first mortgage loans and we ended up taking the parcels back and closing down the properties that were on it because they had never been repaired through the – from the hurricane damage.
We are – what we are seeing in Daytona is we were a very small piece of a large – of a company that had large land holdings.
So when they went down we ended up with this 20 some acres it’s all beachfront but they probably had 120 acres of beachfront.
So the other banks that were involved were Wachovia and some of the larger banks they have over the last three or four years have been on a systematic selling program of selling the parcels that they took back from this company.
We have decided that we would be better off being the last group to sell rather than the first group to sell.
We are now starting to see some development on those parcels.
There is a hard rock going up.
There is some overseas developers who have put a lot of money into the area and are talking about building new hotels.
We think that we are well-positioned with the parcels that we hold were in the middle of some of the development that’s happening.
And that over time our value will be better than it is today but I do think it’s something in the relatively near-term when I said that two years or so that we would be disposing of this land.
It’s not going to be a long long long term hold for us.
Do you have any sense of what the other owners have been selling that parcels for? We certainly do but I don’t as I am sitting here.
Okay.
Alright well thanks for all the answer and all the questions and look forward to talk to you more.
Thank you for your question.
I would now like to turn the call over to Scott Schaefer for closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us today.
Our plan is to continue executing on our strategy of growth and we look forward to sharing our progress with you at the end of next quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you for joining in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2014 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Alison and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Alison and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s second quarter 2014 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 35898971.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by the law.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
RAIT is a multi-strategy commercial real estate company with a vertically integrated platform focused on lending owning and managing commercial real estate related assets nationwide.
We are pleased to report another quarter of solid loan production with continued growth and stability in our portfolio of owned real estate.
Our results this quarter as compare to the second quarter of 2013 demonstrate the strength and depth of our commercial real estate platform and our ability to drive revenues materially higher.
As usual let’s start with some highlights.
Total revenues grew 25% to $73.3 million for the quarter.
Net interest margin from our loan portfolio increased 13% to $27.1 million.
Rental income from our property portfolio increased 41% to $39.2 million and net operating income increased 51% to $19.5 million.
Cash available for distribution or CAD increased 66% to $19.7 million.
During the second quarter loan production continued ramping up with $246.3 million of newly originated loans consisting of $112.8 million of bridge loans $119.7 million of conduit loans and $13.8 million of mezzanine loans.
This production was partially offset by $67 million of commercial loan repayments and $47 million of conduit loan sales during the quarter.
During the first half of the year we originated over $470 million of loans and as expected the origination for waited towards floating rate bridge loans which create recurring quarterly interest receipts and more stability to our earnings.
In April we closed our closed our second floating rate securitization which provides match funded non-recourse financing to our on-balance sheet bridge loans.
We are ramping additional bridge loans for our third floating RAIT securitization which we expect to close towards the end of the third quarter or possibly early fourth quarter.
In order to support the increase in investment activity we’ve added more personnel.
We now have over 30 professional dedicated to originating underwriting and securitizing loans.
On to our portfolio of owned real estate the portfolio continues to perform well.
Rental income continues to climb through rental rate growth and property acquisitions in the multi-family portfolio.
The apartment portfolio experienced year-over-year same store average rent per unit growth of 4%.
In addition we are now seeing an uptick in leasing activity on our office and retail properties.
Our subsidiary Independent Realty Trust and apartment property equity REIT which we externally advise and consolidate acquired two properties during the second quarter totaling 372 units for $41.8 million and now owns 5342 apartment units.
RAIT currently owns approximately 7.3 million shares representing 28% of IRT’s outstanding common stock.
Now as a result of the performance across our core businesses RAIT's board announced our eighth consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.18 per share or approximately 75% of cash for the second quarter of 2014.
And at this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to go the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
For the second quarter CAD was $0.24 per share or $19.7 million.
This was a 66% increase over the second quarter of 2013 where CAD was $11.9 million.
Compared to the second quarter of 2013 investment interest income was up $3.4 million due to increased loan production while investment interest expense was up $245 000 primarily due to increased warehouse lending for our floating rate loans in the second quarter of 2014 offset by reduced heading costs.
This quarter our loan production was $246 million as compared to $171 million dollars of low production in the second quarter of 2013.
As we've discussed previously the interest rate hedges in our rate RAIT I and rate RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see $2 million of reduced hedging costs over the remaining portion of this year when compared to the 2013 run rate as hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
From a credit statistics perspective our CRE non-accrual loans declined to $30 million and represent about 2.3% of our loan portfolio at quarter end.
Our current loan loss reserves are $15.3 million or 51% of our non-accrual loans and we believe we’re adequately reserved for any potential future losses.
Rental income increased by 41% or $11.3 million in Q2 2014 as compared to Q2 last year.
This increase was primarily the result of $10.6 million of rental income associated with 16 properties that we’ve acquired since June 30 of last year.
Rental revenue increased $500 000 due to continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across the remaining same store properties.
Lastly fee and other income increased approximately $100 000 this quarter as compared to second quarter last year.
While CMBS profitability on our condo loan sale business declined compared to last year.
This decline was offset by $3 million of property management and leasing commissions associated with our retail property manager over retail this quarter or $5.9 million year to date.
With respect to some of the expenses interest expense this quarter is up $3.2 million compared to second quarter last year due primarily to $1.9 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance the properties we acquired since second quarter of last year and $1 million of interest associated with our $60 million 7.625% senior notes that we issued in April this year.
Property operating expenses this quarter increased by $4.8 million as compared to second quarter of last year.
This increase is the result of the 16 properties we’ve acquired since June 30 of last year.
The property operating expenses in our same store portfolio was largely unchanged compared to second quarter last year.
Overall the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $19.5 million this quarter an increase of $6.6 million from Q2 of last year.
Combined composition and administrative expenses remained flat at approximately 17% of total revenue this quarter as compared to the second quarter of last year.
We are reporting a GAAP net loss for second quarter 2014 of $25.7 million or $0.31 per share the GAAP net loss was attributable to $25 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments adding $7.7 million loss from the sale of an asset within the legacy Taberna securitization.
The primary driver of the negative change in the fair value of our financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during 2014 the effect of which narrowed the gap between our adjusted book value and GAAP book value.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments and the $7.7 million loss from the sale of the legacy Taberna securitization asset are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of CAD is more indicative of our financial performance.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all the over-collateralization tests.
CRE I CDO reported an OC test of a $127% above the required level of a 116%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of a 120% above the required level of a 112%.
These OC tests are relatively unchanged compared to year end 2013.
As of quarter end we continue to maintain good liquidity in capital available for investments.
We accessed the capital markets again this quarter through a $60 million debt offering of 7.625% senior notes and raised net proceeds of approximately $58 million.
Additionally Independent Georgia Trust our consolidated subsidiary completed a recent $8 million common share offering and raised an additional $73 million of net proceeds.
RAIT externally manages IRT an currently owns approximately 28% of IRT’s outstanding common stock.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thanks Jim.
Operator this time I think we’d like to open up the call for questions.
I think at last disclosure you indicated $93 million of loans closed with $240 million in pipelines.
So based on this quarter’s originations I think that suggests about $87 million remained in the pipeline.
Can you just discuss the status of those loans and the overall pipeline today and whether any have fallen through as well as if you’ve added to the pipeline?  Sure and thanks Jade.
Yes there were a number of loans that were scheduled to close by the end of June and just through timing and due diligence the latest that they have been pushed into the third quarter.
The pipeline continues to grow.
I don’t believe as I sit here that we have lost any loans that we expected to be funding.
It’s just timing and some get done before quarter end and some don’t.
Okay based on the conduit loan sales and the net income you disclosed I think the implied margin is 6%.
Do you think the outsize margin is attributable to the relatively modest volume of loan sales this quarter or do you believe that conduit margins have recently increased? I think during in the second quarter spreads on the cost of the liabilities compressed.
So the loans that we had priced and funded became more profitable when we sold them but of course the market is very competitive and I don’t believe that we will continue with a 6% profit on sale for the third quarter.
Do you think that 2% to 3% is reasonable to assume or are you running higher than that? I think 3.5 is a good gate.
Okay.
And just lastly on the $7.7 loss in the sale to need Taberna asset can you confirm there’s no actual economic impact to RAIT? Absolutely.
This was a loan on that is held in one of the Taberna securitization that we consolidate that -- which the CDO was under water.
So if the loan had paid off in full it would not have benefitted rate and the loan with the loss doesn’t hurt rate.
It was just a decision that we made the collateral manager that it was a very long dated piece of paper that would not have been recovered for many many many years into the future and we made a decision to sell it now take the cash and reduce the CDO liabilities at this time.
I have a quick question.
Despite the rather large increases in revenue quarter and year-to-date operating income has declined for both those period density [ph] and again that concludes a very resizable increase in the NOI of the operating properties.
Can you comment on that? Richard this is Jim Sebra.
The reason that you see kind of a flattening if you will or a slight reduction operating income is because the depreciation and amortization line item has been growing.
It was $8.6 million in the second quarter of last year and its $13.4 million in the second quarter of this year.
Okay.
And that’s included in the near operating income? Yes.
That’s included in the operating income line of the financial statement.
On the $67 million of repayments can you give us just some idea of what portfolios those came out of specifically? Were any in the bridge lending business? Yes.
But the majority of it were in the old legacy CRE CDO RAIT I and II.
$20 million of it was from our first loading rate securitization.
And upon an early repayment because I think that would be well before the original term do you receive any exit fees on that? Yes.
The strategy of either exist fees or that we provide the permanent financing and then we would waive the exit fee but presumably we’re selling it currently at a 3.5 point profit.
Okay.
And in this case would you care us to tell us now if you got the permanent financing or this is one of the reasons you took the exit fee? We’ll get back to you.
There was one that we did the permanent financing on it might have been in the third quarter it relatively small.
I think that the $20 million in the second quarter we took we got paid on our exit fee.
Okay.
Got it.
And on the loans originated of the conduit but not sold could you give us the balance that was carried over at June 30? Hey Jason.
This is Jim.
I don’t have the number handy.
Let me get it and get back to.
Okay.
And then when we're thinking about the securitization at the end of 3Q perhaps early 4Q is the sizing similar to the last securitization or you contemplating something larger? Something larger.
Okay.
I’ll tell you at this point I expect it to be $250 million versus the $200 million or $198 million or $199 million it was -- the second floating rate deal was.
This one we're looking to $250 million.
And similar structure would have include some prefunding potentially? No.
And the second one didn’t have any prefunding either.
The first one did.
Okay.
Got you.
So $250 million okay that’s perfect.
And then one last one sorry on the urban and some of the retail repositioning that urban’s working on for you any update on how that’s looking? It looks like the numbers have started to trend higher in terms of retail rent per square foot and occupancy.
Anything -- is that due to the urban engagement which I think happen earlier this year? It did happen earlier this year but it hasn’t been that long I like to think that some of it is due to the urban involvement and we are seeing increased leasing activity or traffic if you will in most of our office and retail properties.
I think the market just is generally getting a little bit better in those areas and we’re going to benefit from that.
Thank you and thanks everyone for joining us today.
We continue executing on our growth strategy and look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter.
Thanks everyone and have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2014 RAIT Financial Trust earnings conference call.
My name is Liam and I will be your operator for today.
(Operator Instructions) And now I'd like to turn the call over to Andres Viroslav.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Liam and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust third quarter 2014 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 88214660.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres and thank you all for joining our call today.
We are reporting a quarter of continued growth in revenue net interest margin rental income and net operating income.
Cash available for distribution or CAD was a loss of $395 000 for the quarter as a result of the previously announced $21.5 million charge related to the settlement agreement reached with the SEC pertaining to Taberna Capital Management.
Excluding this one-time settlement charge CAD would have been $0.26 per share for the quarter.
We are updating our previously issued CAD guidance to a range of $0.71 to $0.76 per share for the full year of 2014.
RAIT's board declared a third quarter common dividend of $0.18 per share and issued guidance on the fourth quarter dividend of at least $0.18 per share.
During the third quarter we funded $256 million of newly originated loans consisting of $102 million of bridge loans and $154 million of conduit loans.
This volume was partially offset by $46 million of commercial loan repayments and $120 million of conduit loan sales in the third quarter.
During the first nine months of the year we originated $727 million of loans with more than 50% of these originations weighted towards floating rate bridge loan which create recurring quarterly interest receipts and more stability to our earnings.
Fixed rate conduit loan sales during the quarter of $120 million contributed $3.5 million to our quarterly fee income.
In the beginning of October we sold an additional $96.5 million of fixed rate loans which generated $3.1 million of income at the start of the fourth quarter.
Yesterday we closed FL3 our third and to this point largest floating rate securitization.
FL3 is a $219 million floating rate CMBS transaction that provides match funded non-recourse financing for our own balance sheet bridge loan investments.
We issued $181 million of bonds at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 1.75% which represents an 82.6% advance rate.
RAIT retained $38 million of the subordinated interest.
FL3's advance rate and weighted average cost both improved from FL2 which was closed this past April.
Since entering the floating rate CMBS market we financed $550 million of first mortgage bridge loans and participations.
Going forward we'll continue to access the source of non-recourse financing for our balance sheet bridge loans.
And we've already begun ramping our fourth floating rate securitization FL4.
Our owned real estate continues to provide stability to the overall portfolio.
Rental income grew through increased rent rates and property acquisitions primarily in our multifamily portfolio.
The multifamily portfolio experienced year-over-year same-store average rent per unit growth of 6.6%.
We also acquired two retail assets in Michigan which were sourced through our retail focus property manager Urban Retail.
We expect to opportunistically acquire more retail assets which when financed will generate an immediate double-digit return on our invested equity.
Our subsidiary Independence Reality Trust an apartment property equity REIT which we externally advise and consolidate acquired three properties during the third quarter and now owns 6 470 apartment units.
RAIT currently owns approximately 7.3 million shares representing 28% IRT's outstanding common stock.
Before I turn the call over to Jim I'd like to update you on the settlement with the SEC.
As previously announced we have reached an agreement in principal to resolve a non-public SEC investigation concerning Taberna Capital Management RAIT's investment advisor subsidiary.
We expect to follow written settlement to occur on or before December 31 2014.
We recorded the associated $21.5 million settlement charge in the third quarter and we've begun the process of selling the remaining Taberna legacy business and are also targeting a yearend completion for that process.
We look forward to beginning 2015 with these matters behind us.
And at this point I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to go through the financial results in more detail.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
For the third quarter CAD was a loss of $395 000 which included a $21.5 million dollar charge for the previously announced settlement with the SEC.
This settlement charge had a $0.26 per share impact to CAD.
Therefore CAD excluding the effect of this one-time charge was $0.26 per share.
The $21.5 million settlement charge is recorded in the line item called other income and expense in our consolidated income statement.
Compared to the third quarter of 2013 net interest margin was up $1.2 million due to increased loan production while investment interest income decreased primarily due to reduced hedging cost and reduced interest expense from lower outstanding debt during the year.
As we have discussed previously the interest rate hedges of our RAIT I and rate RAIT II securitization are continuing to burn off.
Based on current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see $1.1 million of reduced hedging cost during the fourth quarter when compared to fourth quarter of 2013 as hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
When looking forward based on current one month LIBOR forward curve we are expecting to see additional hedge savings of $8 million in 2015 when compared to the 2014 hedge cost.
From a credit perspective our CRE non-accrual loans increased to $40 million and represent about 3% of our loan portfolio at quarter end.
The increase resulted from one $10 million mezzanine loan that entered to workout during the quarter.
Our current loan loss reserves are $15.7 million or 39% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate for future losses.
Rental income increased by 43% or $12.6 million in Q3 as compared to Q3 last year.
This increase is primarily a result of $11 million of rental income associated with 20 properties acquired since September 30 2013.
The remaining $1.6 million increase is due to a continued improvement in rental rates across the same-store properties.
Lastly fee and other income was $7.8 million in the third quarter of 2014 and was comprised of the following items: $3.5 million of CMBS loan sales profitability; $3.6 million of property management revenue; $308 000 of asset management fees; and $349 000 of other general fee income.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense this quarter is up $3.8 million compared to third quarter last year due primarily to $2.2 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance the 20 properties we acquired since September 30 2013.
The remaining increase in interest expense of $1.6 million resulted from our issuances of $132 million of senior unsecured notes during 2014.
Property operating expenses increased by $5.4 million this quarter compared to the third quarter of last year.
This increase is the result of the same 20 properties acquired since September 30 2013.
Overall the net operating income of our real-state portfolio was $20.9 million this quarter an increase of $7.2 million from Q3 of last year.
On a same-store basis NOI this quarter increased 5.3% from the third quarter of last year.
We are reporting a GAAP net loss for Q3 of $23.3 million or $0.28 per share.
The GAAP net loss was attributable to $10 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments and the non-recurring charge of $21.5 million settlement with the SEC.
The primary driver of the negative changes in the fair value of our financial instruments was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during 2014 the effect of which narrows that gap between our adjusted book value and GAAP book value.
Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments are non-cash.
As such we believe that our presentation and discussion of CAD is more indicative of our financial performance.
As previously disclosed we are actively engaged in exiting the legacy Taberna business and have a goal of completing it before yearend.
This will remove the volatility in our net income created by the changes in the fair value of financial instruments associated with Taberna.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all over-collateralization tests.
CRE I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of 120% above the required level of 112%.
These OC tests are largely unchanged compared to the yearend 2013.
As of quarter end we continue to maintain good liquidity in capital available for investments.
We accessed the capital markets again this quarter through a $72 million offering of 7.125% senior notes and raised net proceeds of $69 million.
Additionally Independence Realty Trust our consolidated sub completed an $8 million common share offering and raised additional $73 million of net proceeds in the third quarter.
RAIT externally manages IRT and currently owns about 28% of IRT's outstanding common stock.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Thank you Jim.
Operator at this time we'd like to open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we have a question from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
I was wondering if you could discuss recent market volatility the competitive outlook and whether you've seen any spread widening or increase in loan yields.
And if possible if you could distinguish between the CMBS conduit market in which you participate as well as the transitional loan market? I would be happy to and thank you.
There has been volatility as we all know.
We were very fortunate in that our program to securitize loans with multiple partners relatively quickly after we close them put us in a good spot because when the volatility hit and spreads widened early in October we had securitized or sold all of our fixed rates loans all but one at that point.
So that spread widening that happened in early October really didn't affect us at all.
Really what it did was it gave us a little bit of support in increasing our own spreads on the asset generation side.
But since then spreads have come back down somewhat and we feel that we're in a good spot going forward with the loans that we have closed and that are in our pipeline to close over the next couple of months.
As far as the floating rate program goes again spreads widened a little bit there but not anywhere near what the volatility was.
In the fixed rate program the 175 overspread on our liabilities that we just issued is within a few basis points of where we had targeted as when we were generating the loans.
I mean its all-in going to provide a 20%-plus return in year one on our remaining $38 million.
While there was a little bit of spread movement not anything significant that we were concerned about.
But again things have come down but you never know what the next month or two will bring.
Did I answer your question or was it another part.
On the B note side and mezzanine lending side can you comment on that execution whether you view those products as attractive? And also if you've any pull back from funds or specialty lenders in that space? No we haven't seen any pull back.
For RAIT I don't find them particularly a good investment.
The returns that are available in the marketplace today I don't think again for RAIT are commensurate to the risk.
And we're doing mezz lending but only as an add-on to our senior loan production.
We're not out doing any standalone mezz.
So we'll do it if it helps us win a senior loan that we like but that's the only way.
Can you also comment on your current investment capacity following the securitization as well as how you approach issuing capital and also how you view parameters around financial leverage? Sure.
We want to issue capital obviously as needed in the best way for the company and in a non-dilutive way.
It's one of the reasons that in the third quarter we accessed the baby-bond market and did a debt offering because we felt that the yields on the debt that were available to us made sense rather than going out and issuing more common at that time.
Our capacity is we feel we're good through the end of the year to fund the pipeline that we have.
Obviously FL3 and then the securitizations on the fixed rate side at the end of the third quarter and early in October in the fourth quarter helped our capital position greatly.
So as we look forward we think we're good for the next couple of months.
Obviously if the pipeline grows dramatically we'll have to reassess that but that's where we are.
On financial leverage just what are some parameters to think about? We have a variety of credit facilities available that maxed our leverage at 80%.
We certainly don't plan to go too close to that but that's the kind of what we think about in terms of total cap.
And your next question comes from Jason Stewart from Compass Point.
If we could just talk about FL3 and I think in the release you said the total return or net yield was pretty similar to FL2.
And I'm just trying to think through the way that your assumptions are working there because we did obviously have leverage tick up a bit which is great to see.
Should we think that you're expecting to see quicker prepayment activity slightly lower yields in that and will it get you to the same type of return that you had in FL2? Well I believe the return is greater in FL3.
I don't know that we said that it was the same as FL2.
We said it was double-digit return.
Again the overall IRR will depend on the term that these loans on the asset side stay outstanding.
But the year one the loan is full.
We believed they will stay out for at least the first year and we're targeting a 20% plus return on that equity again for year one.
The securitization market is an interesting place.
Obviously we want to leave enough dollars out on the subordinated side that we hold to make it meaningful.
I have no interest in having $1 million invested at 50% I'd rather have $38 million invested at 20%.
So it's always a balancing act.
And you take the pool to the rating agencies; they tell you where the different charge is cut.
You go out you talk to the bond buyers and they say we'll buy some of the AAA if we can get some of the single A and you work through it in order to get the best execution.
And in FL3 that meant that we would sell down to a 17% give or take 17% subordination level.
But we're very comfortable there.
Its match funded there is no triggers there is no mark-to-market.
And again it's generating a healthy return on a meaningful amount of rate investment.
So again we think it was a better execution from the bond side than FL2 just because spreads were a little bit lower and we have a little bit more but not dramatically more leverage.
So the structure that's benefiting you is going to drop to the bottomline that's not being offset by lower yield.
No.
It is dropping to the bottomline.
And then on FL4 I'm guessing since you've already start funding there was no pre-funding for FL3 but does that give you any sense there that we should be thinking about timing for FL4 or if you want to give us volume guidance I'd take that too? No.
I don't want to give you volume guidance because I'm always wrong.
We're looking to the end of the first quarter to do FL4.
And then just a bigger picture question.
Scott when you're thinking about being opportunistic in the Retail Center acquisition.
Could you just give us a little bit more color? I think you mentioned you expect it to be double-digit return at purchase.
Does that mean that's the cap rate or you think you're buying these below market to the point where -- just some more context about how you're thinking about the return and maybe the size of that opportunistic strategy? Well I never want to say that we're buying below market because we have intelligent savvy sellers that we're dealing with.
But we're buying off market.
So these were not assets that were out listed with a broker and widely marketed it.
It's a relationship that we've had for a long time with the seller and were able to put together a deal that we felt made a lot of sense for RAIT.
We're very high on the Urban Retail platform.
We think there is a lot of value there in just a historical knowledge and relationships.
And that there are assets in the retail space that you can acquire and it's very similar to what we've done with IRT.
We can acquire assets at cap rates that make good sense 8.5% 9% 9.5%.
We're even seeing some in the 10% range because it's not a property type that masses our chasing right now.
And if you do that and you do it intelligently in markets where there's not going to be any new construction no one is building malls or strip centers at this point.
And if you're in a stable residential area where the property will be supported in the future and you can again buy them at those cap rates and then finance them at today's cost of 4.5% or even less in some instances you generate very very healthy recurring returns.
And I've always been an investor-type person that I'm interested in what I'm generating when I go in.
I don't like trying to look out 10 years and figure out what my reversion is going to be and saying that it's a good IRR.
I'd much rather know that I'm getting 12% on the first year and then I can grow that and I'll let the reversion take care of itself in the future.
So that's how we're looking at this.
These are our assets that are well situated in very good stable markets where there is not going to be any new reconstruction.
The retailers want to be there.
And we can acquire mid number or at prices when levered and levered reasonably.
We're talking about 60% to 65% leverage that generate very nice cash-on-cash returns from the get-go.
And your next question is from Steve Delaney from JMP Securities.
So Jason beat me to the retail center question but good for him on that.
I'm going to just take that one level further though and can you comment on the occupancy tells us these are not transitional properties but do you consider them based on like the rent rolls or do you consider these to be like stabilized and kind of optimal at the time or are there things that Urban Retail can do to further enhance the cash flows here say over the next couple of years? On the current portfolio there is not a whole lot that Urban can do because they were managing these before we acquired them.
Got it.
I'd be remised to say that they can do a whole lot because if they could why didn't they do it for the previous owner.
But we have identified a pipeline of additional opportunities that we may or may not move on that there are properties in that pipeline that Urban does not manage that we do feel through some increases in occupancy but more just remerchandising the tenant makeup that there is a real upside in those assets.
So as we continue to move this process forward we will be acquiring properties presumably that there will be some value add associated with it.
And the reason I asked about sort of the property status was to kind of get next step to the $35 million of property-level debt.
And I was curious was that debt that was in place previously that you stepped into or was that new debt that you placed on the property? It was new debt that we put on.
And I don't if you can comment on this but we've seen one other commercial finance company Scott who is both a lender and an opportunistic investor.
And because they were active in the conduit space they are generating some additional revenue by.
They found a property they want to own they will actually write the conduit loan themselves.
And I don't want you to comment on it specifically with this but is that ability since you are both an equity investor and a lender when you look at the overall kind of integrated strategy is it -- or do you guys look at the opportunity to write your own conduit loans on the properties you acquire? Yes we do and we will.
And your next question comes from Brian Gonick from Senvest.
Can you tell us how much the hedge savings will be in Q4 of this year compared to Q3 of this year? Give me one second I'll find that.
You said it was $8 million for next year or like $0.10 a share it looks like? Brian do you have any other questions.
That's it.
It should be about $800 000.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Thank you.
We're excited to continue executing on our strategy and look forward to speaking with you again next quarter.
And thanks for joining our call today and your continued interest in RAIT.
Thank you.
And thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That does conclude the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter 2014 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Katrina and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to you today for today’s call Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Please proceed.
Thank you Katina and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 financial results.
On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our Web site at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 14817520.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres and good morning everyone.
RAIT is a hybrid REIT with a multi-strategy approach to investing based on commercial real estate lendings along with direct ownership and management of commercial real estate properties.
This approach delivers diversification to the portfolio blending the higher yielding lending business with the stability and recurring income stream from owning and managing properties.
Our investing approach is supported by our platform which now comprise of over 725 employees managing over $4.3 billion of commercial real estate assets.
With most of the challenges faced in 2014 now behind us we’re looking forward to continue growth in all aspects of our business in 2015.
We have exited the remaining Taberna business line by selling our collateral managing contracts in the fourth quarter and our residual Taberna bond holdings early in the first quarter of 2015.
Due to the sale of these assets we have deconsolidated the two remaining Taberna CDOs form RAIT’s balance sheet.
This deconsolidation was the primarily driver of the non-cash GAAP loss recorded in the fourth quarter and should result in a more transparent and less volatile financial presentation going forward.
Let me talk about the results CAD for the full fourth quarter was $0.26 and $0.71 for the year a 14% increase over 2013 CAD when adding back the onetime cost of SEC settlement.
During 2014 we experienced progress in our core business lines and our lending business gross loan originations were $983 million a 63% increase over 2013 levels.
As we anticipated competition increased in the fixed rate lending space which when combined with market volatility resulted in lower spreads and lower gain on sale profits on an individual loan basis.
Loan volumes in this business line were up modestly over 2013 to $459 million.
We expect increased volume in 2015 which should mitigate the current lower spread environment.
Even with the increase in the competition yields within this business remain very attractive and more than 30% during 2014.
We’ve made solid progress in our floating rate bridge lending program in 2014.
Organizations increased over 270% to $505 million when compared to 2013.
Unlike the fixed rate originated [sell] program these loans are held on our balance sheet and generate recurring monthly interest income.
The new floating rate bridge loans are financed short term on our warehouse facilities until we aggregate a sufficient size pool of loans which are then financed with long-term non-recourse match funded liabilities.
During 2014 RAIT sponsored two floating rate CMBS securitizations issuing $337 million of investment grade notes collateralized by $415 million of loans.
We retained a $78 million subordinate investment in these two securitizations which we expect will deliver a high-teens return over the life of the collateral.
We expect to increase the volume of our floating rate lending business in 2015 and are working to close our fourth floating rate securitization in the second quarter.
In our property portfolio increases in direct investments and real-estate and properties under management increased 70% to $1.7 billion when compared to 2013.
The majority of the growth came from $497 million of multifamily acquisitions made through Independence Reality Trust during the year.
We also made opportunistic purchases of two retail centers as we see an opportunity to invest in retail property assets using the urban retail platform.
We expect to generate strong recurring risk adjusted returns and create another stable revenue stream for RAIT.
Rental income grew during the year through increased rental rates and property acquisitions.
RAIT's multifamily portfolio experienced year-over-year same-store average rent growth of 4%.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim for the financial report.
Thank you Scott.
As Scott mentioned 2014 was a transformative year for RAIT as we experienced growth in our core business activities and exited the legacy Taberna business.
For the year CAD was $57.5 million or $0.71 per common share.
This included a $21.5 million charge for the previously announced settlement with the SEC.
The $21.5 million settlement charge is recorded in the line item called other income and expense.
From a GAAP perspective we are reporting an overall net loss of $390 million or $3.92 per share for the year ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2014.
This loss is primarily comprised of the $260 million loss we incurred on the deconsolidation of Taberna 8 and Taberna 9 during December 2014.
As discussed during our third quarter conference call we took steps to exit the Taberna business during the fourth quarter.
This included selling the collateral management contracts on Taberna 1 Taberna 8 and Taberna 9.
That sale closed on December 19th and we deconsolidated Taberna 8 and Taberna 9 on that date.
Through December 19th however we continue to account for Taberna on a GAAP basis including the accrue of income and expenses as well as the regular normal fair value accounting for assets liabilities and hedges.
As it relates to the sale of the collateral management contracts we recorded income of $4.5 million net of severance and other costs associated with exiting the Taberna business.
Lastly in January 2015 we sold the various bonds we held related to the Taberna business for proceeds of $20.4 million.
In summary we generated $24.9 million of additional capital from exiting the Taberna business.
In addition to loss of deconsolidation of Taberna our GAAP net loss for 2014 was also driven by the $99 million of changes in the fair value of our various financial issuances.
With the deconsolidation of Taberna this volatility will be removed from our future financial results.
Compared to 2013 our net interest margin was flat.
Here are several reasons for this as follows: one NIM from Taberna was down by $5.6 million in 2014.
Two we had $164 million of loan payoffs in 2014 causing a reduction in NIM of $5.3 million.
Three our 2014 floating rate loan production of $505 million and related financing cost provided or increased NIM by $7.2 million.
And finally during 2014 we had $3.7 million in reduced hedging cost associated with our loans when compared to 2013.
As we discussed the previously the interest rates in our RAIT I or RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off.
Based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see $8 million of reduced hedging cost during the 2015 when compared to 2014 as hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
Keep in mind that our CRE senior notes and related hedges fares both third-party loans and some of our own real-estate assets.
As such the total savings of $8 million expected in 2015 will be seen to an improvement in NIM and reduced interest expense.
From a credit perspective our CRE non-accrual loans decreased to $25 million during 2014 and represented about 1.8% of our loan portfolio at year end.
This decrease during 2014 was related to two loans totaling $9 million that were charged off one loan for $8 million that was deconsolidated with Taberna and that was offset by $5.5 million of net additions from non-accrual status.
Our current loan loss reserves are $9.2 million or 37% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate.
Rental income increased by 42% or $48.1 million in 2014 as compared to 2013.
This increase is primarily the result of $45.8 million of rental income associated with 32 properties acquired during 2014 and those present for a full year in 2014.
The growth in new properties is primarily driven by the growth of Independence Reality Trust.
During 2014 IRT acquired 20 properties for an aggregate cost of $497 million.
The remaining increase of $2.3 million in rental revenue is due to continued improvement in rental rates across the same-store properties.
Lastly fee and other income was $24.3 million in 2014 that was comprised of the following: $9.5 million of CMBS loan sale profitability $13 million of property management revenue $1 million of asset management fees and $700 000 of other fee income.
With respect to our expenses a couple items of note.
Interest expense this year is up $15.1 million compared to 2013 due primarily to $8.7 million of interest associated with mortgages used to finance the properties acquired during 2014 and those mortgages present for a full year this year.
The remaining increase in interest expense of $6.4 million resulted from our issuances of a $132 million of senior unsecured notes during 2014 and the amortization of associated debt issuance cost.
Property operating expenses increased by [$28.7] million this year as compared to 2013.
Of this increase $20 million is the result of the 32 properties acquired during 2014 and those present for a full year.
Operating expenses in the same-store portfolio increased $600 000 primarily because of increased real estate taxes.
Overall the net operating income of our real-estate portfolio was $80.7 million this year an increase of $27.4 million from last year.
On a same-store basis NOI this year increased 3.7% from 2013.
Compensation and general and administrative cost ended the year at $45.8 million or 68% of our total revenues.
While these costs were up $4.5 million they are down from 17% of total revenue in 2013.
With respect to our CRE CDOs we continue to meet all over-collateralization tests.
CRE CDO I reported an OC test of 127% above the required level of 116%.
CRE CDO II reported an OC test of a 121% above the required level of 112%.
These OC tests are largely unchanged compared to the yearend 2013.
As of quarter end we continue to maintain good liquidity for investments.
We accessed the capital markets three times in 2014 at RAIT issuing common equity and to allow the senior unsecured bonds raising gross proceeds of $214.5 million.
Additionally Independence Realty Trust completed three common share issuances in 2014.
In total IRT issued 22.1 million common shares and raised $201 million of gross proceeds during 2014.
All of these proceeds have been invested.
RAIT continues to externally manage IRT and currently owns 23% of IRT's outstanding common stock.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thank you Jim.
As we look out over 2015 we see opportunities to continue growing both fixed rate and fixed rate and floating rate loan origination volumes with a goal of originating 1.2 billion to 1.6 billion during 2015.
We also expect to continue adding multifamily IRT's portfolio and to make property acquisitions through the urban retail platform.
Additionally we have begun marketing a number of RAIT owned properties for sale with the focus on the multifamily portfolio and as we see opportunities to generated solid gains in the current environment.
And operator at this time I'd like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney representing JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning guys and congratulations on the Taberna Exit and let's say the year-end balance sheet is certainly easier on the eyes than the September one.
Just to touch on the Taberna Exit I just want to make sure I understand what happened in January you sold -- you had already sold the management contracts but you sold the residual interest did you sell all of the residual interest in that transaction or do you still own some bonds? We sold all the bonds we still hold the preferred equity class and they will be disposed off early in 2015.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks for clarifying.
Sort of from a value standpoint there is no value there.
Okay.
And the proceeds of 20.4 million did that simply recover your carrying value or was there possibly a gain related to that transaction? Well the carrying value was [as I stated] the carrying value was -- the base side of bond was significantly higher than 20.4 million.
Correct yes.
Let's say in other proceeds the sales proceeds roughly was roughly equal to where you were carrying those at fair value? Correct yes.
Okay.
Got it.
But it did you made the point I believe that you freed up 24 million 25 million of actual capital out of the transaction.
That's right.
Okay.
And related to that I know that you were through the holidays and all this year trying to work with the folks at the SEC just to finalize your Agreement with them that you entered into in September.
Can you comment as to whether that has been finalized at this point? It has not been finalized at this point.
We are at the mercy of the SEC they will be providing the first draft of the settlement agreement and they have not provided to us at this time.
I will tell you however that all of the changes that we made within RAIT exiting the Taberna business the exiting or separation with the two officers all of that has been communicated to the SEC as it was happening and they had no comment.
So they are fully aware of what we've done we're just waiting on them to provide the settlement agreement.
Got it okay.
Thank you for that Scott that's helpful.
And just one final thing from me Jim you mentioned that your ownership at IRT is 23% for modeling purposes for at least for 2015 should we just assume going forward the IRT’s multifamily assets will continue to be consolidated onto the rate balance sheet? Through 2015 correct yes I would.
Your next question comes from the line of Lucy Webster representing Compass Point.
Please proceed.
Good morning it’s Jason here.
A couple of questions Scott if you could elaborate on the property sales I am assuming these are the properties financed via CRE CDO 1 or 2 what happens to the proceeds when you do sell a property in then those portfolios? There are three properties that we’ve identified it’s a 1000 unit.
They all have senior debt that is not held by rate that is maturing in the near term and there is some minor amount of rate mezzanine debt still held in the CDOs so the proceeds obviously will go to pay off the CDOs and it will reduce or pay off CDO bonds a 100% relatively to that mezz debt.
The senior loans will be paid off to the third parties and then the value in excess of those debt balances will be held by RAIT.
Okay so you do get the excess that does not go pay down any addition CDO debt? No because the CDO liabilities will be paid in full relative to the CDO exposure.
Got it and you’ve showed three properties of 1000 units is that I guess near term event we should expect and is it something that that could continue throughout the year or is this more of a strategic push or just opportunistic near term? We are looking towards a second quarter transaction.
It is opportunistic relative to the market environment that we’re in but we were -- we are expecting this to be the first of a number of sales.
Right thank you and then and do you have -- when the trends in terms of occupancy and rent growth were particularly strong in the fourth quarter specially in the office and retailers how much of that trend should we expect to continue I know it can be able to bumpy but that certainly was much stronger than we had modeled anything you can give us to think about how that should trend going throughout the year? I think it should continue to trend well.
It takes a little bit longer as we’ve always said to stabilize the office and retail portfolio rather than the multifamily but we’re making good progress and we think that the properties are well positioned to continue to experience higher occupancy rates and hopefully lease rates rental rates.
Great one last one for me and I’ll jump out in the conduit business was there any particular loan that depressed to gain on sale or was it -- and at sometimes you can have timing because of spreads or is that really a good run rate for where the competitive environment is pushed at margin? I think first let me just say that we were a victim of our own success really our spreads were much wider than the market as a whole previously because the market wasn’t focused on smaller loans.
So what we’ve seen is spreads on those smaller loans come in as more and more competition moved into that space.
As you now it is somewhat volatile the spreads changed almost daily.
Right now we’re seeing a little bit of an increase spread environment here in the first quarter leading into the second quarter then what we saw late in the fourth quarter of last year but if anyone’s guess that spread environment will continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani representing KBW.
Please proceed.
On the competitive environment for lending beyond the conduit market that you had cited where are seeing the greatest amount of competition and where do you think you continue to have a niche or an advantage? Well I think the competition is across the Board clearly in the conduit space the originate for sale program there is a more competition just because it’s less capital intensive but let’s be clear there is competition everywhere.
Our niche really is the relationships that we've developed and maintained over 18 or 19 years and just the reputation of being able to deliver and as you can see we had a big increase in volume last year and we expect another sizable increase in volume this year based upon our early projections.
So our niche is just knowing what we do there are barriers to entry no one -- you can’t just in to this business you have to have the capital the knowhow in the relationships and we’ve been doing it for a long time.
And we have the capital to continue this growth.
The floating rate business is really our bread and butter.
We see a big opportunity to continue to originate good well positioned and strong credit loans and to securitize them in the floating rate CMBS we were one of the early movers in that space.
We’ve closed three of those deals now it becomes way clock work and as we've said we expect to have our fourth one done in the second quarter of this year.
Regarding the floating rate business have you seen just sequentially any either spread widening or would you say competition has offset that and so perhaps spreads have either remained flat or compressed slightly? Spreads have come in on both the liabilities and on the assets so the -- or I should say pricing so our spread has been -- we've been able to maintain it.
And we expect that to continue.
And regarding the CMBS volatility has there been any notable impact on floating rate issuance do you think pricing on this fourth securitization based on what you know today would be similar to past deals or do you think it would improved upon? I would expect it to be improved upon.
Do you guys plan to continue to report FFO and AFFO? I don’t believe they were disclosed this quarter? We do not plan to continue to present AFFOs simply because that was affected by the Taberna business and included the NIM on Taberna so we're going to removing that going forward and we will certainly reporting FFO when it's published.
And can you disclose FFO for this quarter? Sure it's – fourth quarter was a loss of $2.97 because of the Taberna deconsolidation obviously.
And do you have that excluding the Taberna deconsolidation? I do not have it in front of me but I can call you back.
And then just finally the comment around investment capacity can you -- I mean do you mind just providing some color on kind of investment capacity and also targeted financial leverage? Yes we ended the year with $122 million of cash in the balance sheet and we only had -- we generated proceeds coming up from the bonds as well from the bond sale.
And our currently -- we're expecting continued leverage in the floating rate business of approximately 80%.
Once it's matched [indiscernible] 80% leverage on the floating rate business.
The warehousing advance is 50%.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Eckert representing MLV &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Just had a quick question on the originations in the last two or three quarters there appear to be significantly [kick] back towards the conduit business.
Are you expecting -- what kind of mix are you expecting in 2015 between your floating rate and fixed rate businesses? We're modeling a 50-50 split.
Your next question comes from the line of [Mathias] Capital Management.
Please proceed.
In 2014 you paid out roughly all of your CAD in dividends and that CAD was inclusive of taking a $0.26 charge.
So how should we think about your targeted payout ratio going forward? Previously we've targeted 75% of CAD for the dividend and yes clearly in 2014 that was impacted by the SEC settlement.
The Board looks at the dividend payout every quarter and we really don’t have a formal policy.
We've no further questions at this time I would now like to hand the call back to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.
Thank you Operator.
Thanks for joining us today.
We look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the first quarter 2015 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Krystal and I will be operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav; Senior Managing Director.
Please proceed.
Thank you Cristal and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust first quarter 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our Web site at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 42757358.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as maybe required by law.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thanks Andres.
And thank you for joining us today and welcome to RAIT's first quarter 2015 earnings calls.
We have entered the next chapter of RAIT with a more simplified and transparent business model and presentation.
We've also made progress and are close to finalizing the previously announced Taberna settlement with the SEC and hope to finalize the settlement documentations within the next 30 days.
We are therefore reaffirming our prior disclosure that the amount of the settlement would be $21.5 million which was expensed in the third quarter of last year.
Now on to the quarterly results.
Cash available for distribution or CAD for the first quarter was $0.19 per share which falls within our guidance.
We are also reaffirming our previously announced annual CAD guidance of between $1.02 and $1.20 per share for 2015 which includes approximately $0.26 to $0.32 per share of CAD from gains on property sales.
We expect the second quarter we’ll approximately $0.18 per share of property sale gains in CAD and it dissipates additional gains in the second half of the year.
During the first quarter we originated 17 loans totaling $218 million consisting of $90 million of floating rate bridge loans and $129 million of fixed rate conduit loans.
We sold $93 million of conduit loans during the quarter which generated fee income of $2 million.
We are currently on track and expect to complete our fourth rate sponsored floating rate CMBS securitization appropriately named FL-4 during the second quarter.
RAIT's property portfolio continues to grow and is providing an even larger more stable revenue stream.
The NOI from our consolidated property portfolio totaled $28 million for the quarter as compared to the $16.3 million of NIM generated from our loan portfolio during the first quarter.
The multifamily property portfolio continues to experience rent and occupancy growth as strong market fundamentals remain in tailwind for the portfolio.
There is work to be done in our office and retail portfolios and our property management companies are working diligently to improve the operating performance of these properties.
Our platform is now comprised of over 775 employees with $4.6 billion of assets under management which is up from $4.5 billion at the end of 2014.
This time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to report the financial results.
Thank you Scott.
For the first quarter of 2015 CAD was $15.3 million or $0.19 per common share.
From a GAAP perspective for the first quarter we are reporting an overall net loss of $7.1 million or $0.09 per share which is down from an $0.18 loss a year ago.
When comparing the income statement for 2015 to prior period there are several variances of note.
Though the first quarter of 2015 is the first quarter without any impact from Taberna on our reported results the financial impact of Taberna is still present in periods prior to 2015.
For the first quarter our net interest margin was down $11.4 million as compared to the first quarter of last year.
The two primary drivers of the decrease in NIM were $5.1 million associated with Taberna and $6.3 million of non returned items in 2014 which were both included in Q1 2014 but not present in Q1 2015.
Excluding these items NIM was essentially flat as interest income associated with loan pay-off was replaced with interest income associated with new loans and the reduced hedging cost which we have discussed before.
As we've previously discussed the interest rate hedges in our RAIT 1 and RAIT 2 securitizations are continuing to burn off based on the current one month LIBOR curve we expect to see about $6.2 million of reduced hedging cost during the rest of 2015 when compared to 2014 as these hedges when compared to 2014 as these hedges continue to expire according to their terms.
From a credit specific perspective loan quality remains stable.
Our CRE non-accrual loans decreased to $24.9 million during Q1 2015 and represent about 1.6% of our loan portfolio at quarter end.
Our current loan loss reserves are at $10.8 million or 43% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate.
Rental income increased by 53% or $18.8 million in Q1 2015 as compared to last year this increase was primarily result of $17.3 million of rental income associated with the property that we acquired during 2014 or present for a full quarter -- the first quarter in 2015.
The growth in new properties is primarily driven by the growth in Independence Reality Trust.
The remaining increase of $1.5 million is due to continued improvement in rental rates across the same store properties.
Fee and other income increased 27% to $5.6 million increase Q1 2015 which is up from $4.4 million last year.
During Q1 2015 fee and other income was comprised of $2.0 million of CMBS loan sales profitability and $3.6 million of property management revenue.
During the first quarter we also earned $2 million of asset management and property management fees through our external management and property management agreements with IRT.
While these IRT fees are eliminated for GAAP they are captured in CAD.
With respect to our expenses a couple of items of note.
Interest expense this quarter is up $8.1 million as compared to Q1 last year.
This is primarily due to $4.2 million of interest associated with the mortgage loans that we used to finance the properties that were acquired during 2014.
The remaining increase in interest expense of $3.8 million resulted from our issuance of the $132 million of senior unsecured notes after Q1 2014 and interest on the $76 million of senior secured notes that were eliminated in consolidation prior to 2015.
Property operating expenses increased by $7.9 million in Q1 as compared to last year of this increase $7.6 million relates to the properties that we acquired during 2014.
Property operating expenses in the same store portfolio increased $300 000 primarily because of increased real estate taxes.
Overall the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $28 million this quarter an increase of $10.9 million from Q1 last year.
On a same store basis NOI this quarter increased 8% from Q1 2014.
Compensation and G&amp;A cost ended the quarter at $11.5 million or 15% of our total revenue.
From a balance sheet point of view we ended the quarter with $93 million of cash on hand and $402 million of availability under our lending warehouse facilities.
During the quarter we originated $219 million of loans comprised of $90 million of floating rate bridge loans and $129 million of fixed rate CMBS loans.
In addition we have $17 million of CRE loan repayments during Q1 2015.
We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $516 million or $6.22 per share.
As for the published guidance we estimate our CAD for 2015 to be range in the $1.02 to $1.20 per share.
Excluding the property sale gains quarterly CAD should range between $0.19 - $0.215 per share per quarter.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thanks Jim.
At this time operator I’d like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Jason Stewart from Compass Point.
Please proceed.
Jim I heard you get to the interest income and I just want to go back to that because it increased quite a bit.
I'm sorry -- the interest expense quarter-over-quarter.
And I wondered if you could break this just down a little bit more to what was driving the quarter-to-quarter increase in interest expense? I think I mentioned that the increase in interest expense was $8.1 million quarter-to-quarter.
It’s primarily due to $4.2 million of interest on the new mortgage loans and the remaining $3.8 million is associated with the $132 million of senior unsecured baby bonds we did last year and the $76 million of senior secured notes that we used to eliminate in consolidation when we consolidated Taberna.
The new mortgage loans Jason relate to properties that were acquired subsequent to the first quarter of last year.
Okay.
I am just looking at the total liabilities.
The percentage of increases aren't matching and I'm wondering if I'm missing either number one something that was happening in consolidation or number two that you are just carrying more liquidity that you're going to deploy and you are paying for it in the first quarter.
We certainly have $93 million of cash on hand but which is consistent with the end of the year and previous quarters.
We can certainly talk after this to go through the details further.
Okay.
Second question was just on loans held for sale carried over quarter and if you could just give us a number of what was carried over but not sold? The number that was carried over at the end of the quarter I believe was 127 million.
Our next question will come from the line of Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
So looking at the first-quarter loan production mix on the 219 million it breaks out about 60-40.
Obviously quarter-to-quarter that can bounce around but if we look out for the full year how should we feel about the balance between -- to see the market opportunities today the balance between conduit loans and bridge loans for the portfolio? We still believe that over the course of the year that it will be more on 50-50 ratio between floating and fixed rate.
But it is not as you point on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
And just looking just generally Scott looking at second-quarter pipeline how do you feel about the conduit side of things in the second quarter vis-à-vis the 93 million of sales in the first quarter? We feel very good as Jim just pointed out we have an excess of $120 million of loans held for sale at the end of the quarter on our balance sheet plus production in the pipeline in the second quarter looks good.
So feel that we’re in a good position relative to the second quarter.
Great and we did note that the gain on sale margin at least the way we calculate it jumped up to about 315 from about 170 in the fourth quarter so nice to see that trend.
My last thing is really just strategic big picture as opposed to anything about the first quarter.
I'm just curious when we look at your integrated platform.
Are you looking to acquire any operating companies or businesses that might be nice bolt-ons to the platform similar to what you did with Urban Retail last year? And where I am going Scott is if you -- as you look at what you have in place today are they -- is there anything on your wish list or any holes you have that would just think could make you guys more effective more profitable if you had certain capabilities that maybe you lack now in property services or asset management? We’re always looking at opportunities to acquire assets and companies that could help us but I have to tell you that I believe that our platform is very strong.
We have good leadership at the top of each division and each division is easily scalable.
So as the portfolio sits today and the different property types that we own and manage I feel that the platform as it is well positioned to continue to grow and take advantage of those portfolios.
Our next question will come from the line of David Walrod from Ladenburg.
Please proceed.
Quick question just on your CAD calculation the allocation to non controlling interest was up significantly.
Can you walk me through the details of that? It's just the allocation associated with IRT the third party owners of Independent Realty Trust.
As you know if IRT bought a significant amount of properties in the fourth quarter that’s why you are seeing that rise.
Our next question will come from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed.
Just on the interest expense question quarter-over-quarter can you explain why it increased? I think that the answer you gave was on a year-over-year basis the 8.1 million.
So if you could clarify why the quarter-over-quarter increase in interest expense went up by 3 million that would be helpful.
It's the same discussion that we had before same kind of component it's the interest expense on the new mortgage debt as well as the interest on the baby bonds that issued after the first quarter of last year as well as the $76 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in consolidation.
Jade you referring to fourth quarter to first quarter? Yes.
Again the deconsolidation of Taberna happened at the end of the fourth quarter so the interest on that 76 million appears in the first quarter for the first time.
And we acquired a number of properties many properties at the IRT level in the fourth quarter.
So the first quarter was the first full quarter that we had that mortgage debt in place.
So that’s really the two primary drivers for that.
Just big picture I wanted to get your thoughts on the competitive environment for lending where you are seeing the most pressure from competition and where you think rate has a niche or advantage? We are seeing significant competition in the CMBS space.
I still believe that we have a great niche and advantage in the smaller loan space.
I still believe that there is -- that that's the inflection point of profitability for us within the small loans where we can price them a little wider because there is less competition at that level.
On the floating rate side again it’s a big market and we are a relatively small company and as such we think there is a tremendous room for growth in our originations for those types of loans.
Most of our competitors are chasing the fixed rate CMBS conduit lending type loans because it’s less capital intensive.
Are you seeing new entrants impact pricing and perhaps be a little less disciplined than people who have been doing this for quite a long time? New entrants are impacting pricing in the larger loan size yes and that’s why spreads have come in.
The lending fundamentals from a credit perspective it changes as the market matures but we’re still very comfortable with the credit structures that we are able to put in place and we are not having to stretch to compete full loans in that area.
Okay.
The margins on the CMBS conduit business would you say that they are stable or still under pressure? Right now I think they are stable.
And are you seeing any push toward securitizers having to contribute more of their own directly originated loans to deals and push out smaller loan contributors? No we’re still contributing loans with each of our partners and they are happy to take our assets or loans.
Okay so you’re not -- no pushback because I think that in the media there has been various reports about bond buyers preferring securitizers to originate more -- just I think over 50% of the loan contributions.
Well we’re a meaningful contributor over contributing pools in the $100 million give or take range that’s meaningful and we are a named issuer within the securitization.
So we’re not just blindly contributing loans to somebody else’s pool.
Got it.
Do you think that B notes and mezzanine are attractive at this point? Would you consider increasing or broadening your credit palate to include those? No I wouldn’t.
As I have stated before we will consider a subordinate debt piece where we are doing the senior loan I have no interest in doing subordinate debt behind others.
I just think where rates are today for that type of product I’m much happier doing the senior piece and either securitizing it ourselves if it’s a floating rate or selling it.
So we’re not really looking to build a subordinate debt portfolio.
Great thanks.
And just one last one can you comment on current investment capacity and how you would approach issuing capital at this point and also target financial leverage? As we talked about leverage in the past we have our warehouse agreements in a lot of our lending arrangements limit our leverage at 80%.
We ended the quarter with 93 million of capital on-hand to fund new loans and with 402 million of capacity under our lending warehouses.
We always -- as we kind of put out into our guidance we are expecting to do some capital kind of raising later in the year but that is dependent on loan flow and production volumes quarter-to-quarter.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
One of my questions is already answered.
The other question I have is I see your stake in IRT is down to 23% now.
Do you ever see a point at which your investment in IRT would make it non-consolidatable sometime later this year or next year? Richard this is Jim.
Thanks for the question.
It’s always possibility as you know in our disclosures Independence Realty Trust is considered a variable interest entity.
As a result of the consolidation guidance around it with the external management contract is a very complex set of facts and circumstances.
As our investment continues to decline yes it will eventually lead to deconsolidation although there is no exact fine point as to what that percentage need to get to in order to consolidate.
Okay so this is just from a modeling standpoint.
Can I consider it -- for most of the remainder of this year and next you will be consolidating that entity? That’s a fair assumption.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Jason Stewart.
Please proceed.
One follow-up -- and I think you can tell we’re all struggling with this expense stuff here.
If I calculate the increase in rental income I’m getting about 7 point -- $8.5 million quarter-to-quarter.
But I'm also getting an increase in interest and real estate operating expense of almost a little less like $6 million $6.1 million.
I’m just wondering how much of that -- it sounds like that’s all related to IRT or if there is any one time items in there anything we should back out to look at the increase in operating income? Anything any color you can give us on the way those two line items -- three line items are working would be really helpful.
Sure.
I think we commented on the property operating expense increase from Q1 of last year to Q1 of this year it’s about $7.9 million.
And Jim I think the point that all the analysts are struggling with is not year-over-year; it’s quarter-to-quarter because that’s when the deconsolidation happens so if you could just focus on quarter-to-quarter that would be more helpful to us.
Sure.
Let me get that information we’ll call you back.
Our next question will come from the line Jade Rahmani.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Just a follow-up on IRT how do you think about the management structure of that company and whether to internalize? Most equity REITs are internally managed.
You yourselves are internally managed and that would be a way to capitalize the management fee stream and thereby increase book value.
The management contract between IRT and REIT has a four year term.
It’s non-cancellable I guess both parties could agree but outside of that it has a full year term that automatically renews for one year period after the first four years.
We are about two years into that four year period so I think for the next two years at least that contract will probably stay in place.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in queue I would like to turn the call back over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Thank you operator.
Thanks for joining our call today and we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that conclude today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference to your host for today Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Lisa and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's second quarter 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davidson President; and Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 93207351.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with reflect to future events and financial performances.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for facts that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under investor relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres and thank you for joining our call today.
And welcome to RAIT's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
We had a solid second quarter as net interest margin rent income property NOI fee income and cash available for distribution all increased on a linked-quarter basis.
We continue to see good opportunities to deploy capital into the real estate market and remain focused on growing our assets under management.
Our asset management platform is now comprised of over 775 employees focused on commercial real estate lending as well as owning managing and servicing commercial real estate assets.
We ended the quarter with $4.8 billion of assets under management a 6.7% increase from December 31 2014.
Cash available for distribution or CAD for the quarter was $0.37 per share comprised of $0.21 in base CAD up 10.5% from quarter one and $0.16 previously disclosed gain from the sale of property.
CAD per share was up 95% quarter over quarter total revenues were up 4.6% and net interest margin increased 1.2% over the same period.
During the second quarter the lending business originated 24 loans totaling $219 million consisting of $95 million of floating-rate bridge loans $118 million of fixed-rate conduit loans and a $500 million mezzanine loan.
During the first half of the year gross loan originations totaled $437 million.
Our pipeline is strong as we're seeing a pickup in potential lending opportunities.
We've spent time building a strong reputation in both the fixed and floating rate lending markets supported by a team of 11 originators and 10 underwriters.
During the quarter we sold $130 million of conduit loans which generated fee income -- or gains -- of $3.7 million.
In total we've sold $223 million of conduit loans during the first half of the year.
We remain credit focused and disciplined effectively selling every fixed-rate loan we've originated.
We also closed on a $223 million RAIT sponsored floating-rate CMBS securitization RAIT's fourth floating-rate securitization.
We retained $41.8 million of the below investment grade and subordinate interests which generate an 18.5% return for rate.
Clearly this continues to be a segment of our business where we will continue allocating capital.
We're now in the process of accumulating loans for FL5.
Our property portfolio remains anchored by our multifamily properties which continue to deliver stable and growing returns as fundamentals remain very positive.
We're also seeing improvement in the operating performance of our office and retail portfolios.
We've begun selling our landholdings.
In July we sold two small land parcels in Daytona Florida for approximately $3 million realizing a $500 000 gain on the sale during the third quarter.
We anticipate more land sales during the fourth quarter of the year.
Before turning the call over to Jim just a quick update on the status of the SEC settlement pertaining to Taberna.
As of this call the RAIT Board has signed off on the final settlement documents and we're waiting for the SEC's formal approval.
The settlement amount remains $21.5 million which was previously expensed in the third quarter of 2014.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results.
Jim.
Thank you Scott.
Cash for the second quarter was $30.3 million or $0.37 per common share.
This $0.37 includes $0.16 of property sale gains and $0.21 of base CAD which increased 10.5% from the first quarter of 2015.
From a GAAP perspective for the quarter we're reporting overall net income of $19 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
During Q2 there were several transactions of note.
First we completed our fourth RAIT sponsored floating-rate securitization which we refer to as FL4.
We replaced $181 million of investment grade bonds which financed $223 million of first mortgage loans we originated and previously held on warehouse.
The weighted average cost of the bond is LIBOR plus 184 basis points and their weighted average coupon in the mortgage loans is 5.2%.
As a result the cash-on-cash return to RAIT is 18.5%.
Second we completed the sale of two real estate properties generating a GAAP gain of $17.3 million and a CAD gain of $13.1 million.
And lastly IRT which we externally manage announced its $650 million merger transaction with Trade Street Residential.
The benefit of this transaction for RAIT is increased assets under management and increased asset management and property management fee revenue.
The transaction is expected to close in Q3 2015.
Onto the income statement.
First we will discuss year-over-year highlights.
When comparing the year-over-year results please remember that the financial impact of Taberna is still present throughout 2014.
Comparing net interest margin year over year it decreased by $10.6 million.
Of this decrease $5.4 million was associated with Taberna and $4.3 million of non-routine items existed in 2014 which did not exist in 2015.
While our interest-bearing loan has increased over the last 12 months that additional interest was offset by loan repayments which aggregated $198 million since June 30 2014.
Consolidated rental income increased year over year by $16.3 million.
Of this increase $11.2 million relates to the growth of IRT.
The remaining $5.1 million relates to the growth and improvement of the RAIT-only property portfolio with $3.5 million associated with additional owned real estate since last year and $1.6 million related to the improvement in occupancy and rental rates across the portfolio.
Property operating expenses increased by $6.7 million in Q2 as compared to last year.
Of this increase $4.7 million relates to the growth of IRT.
The remaining increase of [Technical Difficulty] dollars relates to the RAIT-only property portfolio of which $1.4 million resulted from the increase in owned real estate since Q2 of last year and $600 000 associated with RAIT's same-store property portfolio.
Regarding the RAIT's only same-store portfolio we expanded the information in our press release regarding occupancies and rental rates for IRT and RAIT separately.
As such RAIT's same-store property portfolio only includes the multifamily office and retail properties it owns.
RAIT's multifamily portfolio includes 5 911 units and its office and retail portfolios total more than 4.3 million square feet.
Year-to-year NOI performance of RAIT's only same-store properties was strong with an 8.5% improvement primarily driven by increased occupancies in RAIT's office portfolio and 8% increases in the rental rates in its multifamily portfolio.
Year-over-year interest expense was up $6.5 million primarily due to $3.6 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance a property acquired during 2014 and interest expense resulting from our insurances of $132 million of senior unsecured notes during 2014 and interest on the $74 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in consolidation prior to 2015.
Now turning to some key financial highlights when comparing our current results to the first quarter of 2015.
Net interest margin increased by $200 000 sequentially as a result of the growth in our loan portfolio.
Rental income increased sequentially by $1.5 million as IRT acquired a $25.3 million asset during Q2 along with additional revenue from continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates in our -- in RAIT's only office and multifamily portfolios.
Fee and other income increased $1.8 million sequentially to $7.4 million on larger CMBS gain on sale volumes.
During Q2 2014 fee and other income was comprised of the following $3.7 million of CMBS loan profitability on $130.4 million of growing sales; $3.4 million of property management revenue; and $300 000 of some other income.
During the second quarter we earned $2 million of asset management and property management fees through external management and property management agreements with IRT.
While these fees are eliminated for GAAP they are captured in CAD.
We expect both the asset and management fees and property management fees we generate from IRT to increase to $3.3 million per quarter after IRT closes on its previously announced merger with Trade Street Residential.
With respect to some expenses there were no notable changes sequentially as compared to Q1 2015.
Lastly during Q2 we sold two real estate properties at -- $17.3 million on one property and deferred a $3 million gain on the second property pursuant to the installment sale method.
As discussed previously these sales were opportunistic and provide us with the ability to recycle capital into our lending business.
From a credit perspective we maintained our $2 million quarterly provision as we're originating more floating-rate on balance sheet loans.
Our CRE nonaccrual loans represent 1.6% of our loan portfolio quarter and our loan-loss reserves were $12.8 million or 52% of our nonaccrual loans.
From a balance sheet point of view we ended the quarter with $105 million of cash on hand and $497 million of availability under our lending warehouse facilities.
During the quarter we originated $219 million of loans comprised of $95 million of floating-rate bridge loans a $5 million mezzanine loan and $118 million of fixed-rate CMBS loans.
In addition we had $113 million of CRE loan repayments during the second quarter of 2015.
We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $520.1 million or $6.27 per share.
With regards to interest rates RAIT's current portfolio is well positioned for a rising RAIT environment.
The portfolio is match funded which insulates its cash flow from higher interest rates.
With respect to our CAD guidance for the third quarter we're currently expecting CAD per share of approximately $0.26 to $0.27 which includes approximately $0.06 to $0.07 of gains on the sale of real estate properties.
Scott this concludes the financial part.
Back to you.
Thank you Jim.
Lisa at this time I would like to open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And your first question comes from the line of Ben Zucker with JMP Securities.
Please proceed First this is more housekeeping.
I hear your 3Q CAD guidance of $0.26 to $0.27.
So does this mean that the full-year $102 to $120 million range that's still a good range for us to be working off of? Yes it is.
And then just secondly as you guys are starting to realize some of the gains in the real estate portfolio which seemingly in a good place based off of the recent sale we saw I was just wondering what you guys felt was the best use of these proceeds in available capital going forward.
Because obviously this is one of the more diversified REITs that has some optimality.
And I was just curious what you're seeing out there would you guys like if it's the floating-rate bridge loans or maybe more aggressive push into conduit lending as those margins have shown some pretty substantial improvement year to date.
Or maybe even a property acquisition.
And then that's it for me so thanks guys.
Right now we feel that the lending business generates the best return on equity and that's where we're allocating the majority of the capital that we're generating from -- or will generate from property sales.
As we said the floating-rate business generates an 18.5% return once we securitize the loans.
And we all know that the conduit business is still in the 20%-plus return space.
So that's where the money is going to be allocated.
Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Please proceed.
Just wanted to ask your view of the current real estate cycle.
Have you seen any changes in how borrowers and sponsors are approaching the market given the high levels of competition we're seeing how strong pricing has been as well as the prospect of rate increases? I think borrowers are -- a couple of things.
One I think many folks imagine there is going to be a rate increase so I think as you would expect folks who can borrow now are borrowing now.
And I think you are likely see that continue for the next 6 to 12 months i.e.
the foreseeable future.
Second as you said there are a lot of folks out there a lot of options that borrowers have.
And I think that depending upon the type of financing whether it's an acquisition or a refi they are choosing lenders depending upon their comfort with that lender as well as the terms that are offered.
CMBS terms have become pretty consistent lender to lender.
It's a well-defined market and I think in some way the advantage that we have in the floating-rate side is that much of that is acquisition-related activity.
You have to trust and imagine that the lender that you do business with is going to actually close and live up to the commitment that they put on the table the proceeds that they suggested to you at the outset of the loan amount.
And if you looked at our last floating-rate securitization you'll see that a very high percentage of those borrowers were repeat borrowers of ours because they've gotten very comfortable with our ability to act and do as we say we're going to do.
So it's a competitive environment but I feel like at least from our perspective our market position is pretty well defined and we're doing well within that market.
And just a follow-up.
In terms of the way borrowers and sponsors are thinking about the cycle are you seeing deal flow migrate to secondary markets or any other notable changes? You have to remember that we're a small- to middle-market lender and the vast majority of our business is done in secondary markets.
So I don't think there's a noticeable change that we've seen other than the fact that if you take your premise that more folks are looking at those markets that's a strength of ours and a place where we feel particularly comfortable and I think borrowers brokers etc.
know that we're good at operating in those markets.
On the conduit business side can you discuss recent trends? I think there's been articles in the media citing pushback from bond buyers on contributions from smaller conduit participants.
Are you seeing any pressure in terms of your contribution to securitizations? And do you expect to maintain the level of conduit business you've been doing? We read the same articles that you do but I'm not in a position to comment on other folks' business.
I would say that Scott alluded to the fact in his notes we've yet to have the circumstance where a loan that we've originated we have yet not been able to sell.
And our goal is to -- for that to continue the partners that we've been focused on -- as you know Barclays and Citi have been great partners of ours and we look forward to that continuing.
So we haven't seen the pressure that you're describing.
Others may have but we're here.
So I can just tell you that we're not having a particular challenge in that regard.
What was the second part of your question I'm sorry? Well if you're expecting to maintain your volume levels -- sounds like you are.
But also I wanted to ask about volatility that took place in the second half of June and if you could comment on CMBS trends post quarter end.
Sure.
Spreads widened call it I don't know 20 basis points in AAAs maybe a little bit more over the course of the last month.
I think as we've described previously the best hedge one can have against that on a CMBS book is to be constantly and actively in the market selling loans and we continue to do that.
So we've seen spreads widen on the lending side.
That means we've widened the spreads that we've charted to our borrowers and keeping with the market.
And we've been a pretty diligent and effective seller of loans so we endeavor very strongly to never be caught in a position with a huge amount of loans that are subject to a spread widening.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Stewart of Compass Point.
Please proceed.
You guys have been very successful especially in the second quarter of raising capital per se by selling either non-core assets or things that you think might have hit your targets.
But when you've really pulled back how do you weigh your growth especially in the bridge business and the capital needs to go along with that with where the stock is and your ability to generate capital internally? Well Jason we're always looking at how we can generate capital internally.
And we did sell that one property and it was -- in our opinion it had reached its economic potential and we thought it was an appropriate time given the strength in the multifamily market to sell it.
We also sold a number of mezzanine loans that we don't lever mezzanine loans on our balance sheet.
So even though they were yielding 10% 11% or 12% we can recycle that money back through the floating-rate business.
And as we talked about FL4 generate 18.5% or in the CMBS business more than 20%.
So we've done that.
Listen we're an opportunistic user of capital and we're always monitoring our pipelines.
And our model has been to raise capital when we know that we can put it to work quickly and accretively and that will continue.
So do you think there is more -- is there more in the portfolio that can come out that can continue to generate that? Because I mean obviously those returns are pretty high.
And I don't know that -- I guess I want to ask you two different things.
At what point does your ability to generate that capital internally and redeploy it switch to buying stock back? Or run out just in general? Is there a point and what do you do at that point? We're continuing to look at the portfolio and we will -- it's a large portfolio and we will continue to harvest capital from that portfolio as we move forward.
It's always a balance because as you saw in asset and you lose the rental income so we want to do that when we can put the money again to work quickly so that we're generating returns on that capital going forward.
So that is part of our process and will continue.
Okay.
And I think from my perspective your ability to do that has been better than we've modeled.
And I'm just trying to gauge how much -- how many more good surprises are in there.
Well I understand that.
And you have to remember that we're one side of a transaction so it's easy for me to sit here and say we're going to sell out this this and this but you always have to have a buyer on the other end.
So that's our plan; we're confident that we can do it but it still transactional.
I would now like to turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.
Well thank you for joining us today and we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the RAIT Financial Trust Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Samira and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's third quarter 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; Jim Sebra RAIT's Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Davidson RAIT's President.
This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with a confirmation code of 58570092.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performances.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today and welcome to RAIT's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Cash available for distribution per share was $0.27 and we paid an $0.18 dividend for the third quarter.
The performance of our loan and property portfolios combined with the revenues from our asset and property management businesses deliver $0.20 of base CAD and property sales delivered an additional $0.07 of CAD.
During the third quarter market conditions were extremely volatile which impacted the performance of our conduit lending business.
Bond spreads widen by approximately 40 basis points or about 2.5 points of CMBS gain on sale within the conduit lending business.
Our conduit lending strategy has been to sell our fixed rate loans frequently thereby reducing exposure to bond spread volatility and credit risk.
I'm pleased to report that not core that notwithstanding the spread widening we've sold all of our fixed rate loans without any kick-outs and managed to earn $434 000 of gains for the quarter and $6.1 million of gains during the nine months September 30 2015.
Our floating rate lending business remains strong as evidenced by the $173 million of loan origination during the quarter.
This business line is less volatile when compared to the conduit lending and sale business and it delivers recurring interest income.
We are now aggregating loans for our fifth RAIT sponsored floating rate securitization rate FL5 which will be approximately $325 million and expect to close it in December.
Our property portfolio anchored by or multi-family properties continues to deliver stable and growing returns as fundamentals remain positive.
Both average rent and occupancy were up year-over-year by 4.2% and 1% respectively.
We are also seeing improvement in the operating performance of our office portfolio as occupancies and average rental rate were also up nicely during the same period.
We will continue to simplify the business and focus on our core strategy commercial real estate lending.
To do this we are accelerating the rate property sale program in order to recycle capital for reinvestment.
We've identified approximately $250 million of rate-owned properties to sell over the next six months.
The sales will be slightly accretive to CAD will reduce leverage and unlock approximately $50 million of capital to recycle into the higher yielding lending business.
Our asset management business continues to grow as Independence Realty Trust closed on its acquisition of Trade Street Residential.
As IRT's external manager in just over two years we have successfully grown IRT to 50 properties with over 14 000 units and total capitalization of $1.4 billion.
This growth has led to an increasing recurring fee stream to rate for the services it provides to IRT.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results.
Thank you Scott.
Cash for the second quarter was $23.7 million or $0.27 per common share.
The $0.27 includes $0.07 of property sale gains and $0.20 of base CAD.
Year-to-date our CAD was $0.83 including $0.24 of property gains generating an annualized return on our adjusted book value of 16.3%.
From a GAAP perspective for the third quarter we are reporting a net loss of $6.5 million or $0.07 per diluted share.
During Q3 there were several transactions of note.
First IRT completed its announced a merger with Trade Street.
The effects of which are consolidated and RAIT status [ph].
As a result of the merger you will see a large increase in our consolidated real estate assets and non-recourse debt along with acquisition expenses difference in separation expenses and a gain on the merger.
As Scott mentioned the benefit of this transaction for RAIT is increase asset management and property management fees.
Based on portfolio today we expect IRT will pay RAIT approximately $7 million of asset management fees and $5.2 million of property management fees in 2016.
Second we completed the sale of one real estate property in two land parcels generating gross proceeds of $20.5 million a GAAP gain of $7.4 million and a CAD gain of $6.3 million.
Lastly during Q3 we unwound the FL1 securitizations and refinanced the $55 million of remaining loans through our warehouse financing arrangements.
Loan repayments in FL1 decreased the efficiency of the securitization and by unwinding the securitization we increased our returns on the remaining assets.
We are planning to resecuritize the remaining loans in our future FL securitizations to further enhance returns.
We view this unwinding as a positive event and clearly demonstrates the combination of a securitization cycle without issue or default.
Let's move onto income statement.
First we'll discuss year-over-year highlights.
When comparing year-over-year results please remember that the financial impact of Taberna is still present throughout 2014.
Comparing third quarter net interest margin year-over-year it decreased by $9.2 million which was largely associated with Taberna in 2014.
From real estate perspective the property NOI increased $8.6 million to $29.5 million for the third quarter 2015 consisting of $13.5 million of NOI from IRT and $16 million of NOI from the rate owned properties.
NOI at the rate owned properties increased $1.7 million or 12.9% year-over-year driven by improved performance of the office portfolio and same-store NOI growth in multi-family assets of 10.8%.
Interest expense year-over-year was up $5.7 million primarily due to $2.8 million dollars of increased interest expense at IRT $600 000 of additional interest expense from RAIT's August 2014 senior note offering and $1.3 million of interest expense associated with our $72 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in the Taberna consolidation prior to 2015.
Fee and other income decreased $4.4 million sequentially to $3.1 million on lower CMBS gain on sale volumes.
During Q3 2015 fee and other income was comprised of the following; $434 000 of CMBS loan sale profitability on a $116 million of loan sold $2.6 million of property management revenue and $58 000 of other income.
From a credit perspective we reported a provision for loan loss of $1.9 million.
Non-accrual loans increased by $15.6 million this quarter related to a first mortgage loan which had a major tenant vacate their space in September 2015.
As a result we've taken appropriate reserves for this loan.
At quarter end our non-accrual loans represent 2.5% of our loan portfolio and loan loss reserves of $14.6 million or 36% of our non-accrual loans.
From a balance sheet point of view we ended the quarter with $93 million of cash on hand and $391 million of availability under our lending warehouse facility.
During the quarter we originated $238 million of loans comprised of $173 million of floating-rate bridge loans and $65 million of fixed-rate CMBS loans.
In addition we had $39 million of CRE loan repayments.
We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $584 million or $6.43 per share.
So towards the quarter end we've continued to use our cash on hand in warehouse availability to fund loans.
Since the quarter end we funded floating rate and conduit loans aggregating $102 million and currently have an additional $322 million of loans under wrap and working towards closing in Q4.
This fourth quarter loan volume should bring our total 2015 loan productions to approximately $1 billion.
Based on this long production volume we are currently expecting fourth quarter CAD per share of approximately $0.22 to $0.23 which will include approximately $0.03 of gain on sale of real estate properties.
Scott this concludes the financial report back to you.
Thank you Jim.
At this time operator I'd like to open up the call for question.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everyone and thanks for taking the question.
So first Jim you talked about the unwinding of FL1.
It remind me what is the actual trigger in that structure that gives you the right to call it unwinding? Hi this is Scott Davidson.
It's basically two years after issuance we have the right to call the security.
Got it.
So that would have been issued back 2013.
And did you say it was about $50 million of residual loans? $55 million.
$55 million of residual loans.
Okay great.
And I apologize Jim Sebra when you were making your comments about the - I wanted to ask about the non-accrual loans.
I apologize I was writing furiously and I believe you said it was a single loan.
Would you mind repeating the specifics in that increase in non-accruals? Sure.
It's $15.6 first mortgage loan.
It's on two office properties just outside of Houston.
One on non-accrual from a major tenant at the end of September 2015.
We have taken some reserves and are cooperating well.
Okay great.
Thank you for that.
Okay so single loan and office in Houston got it.
And then Scott Schaeffer your comments I think I got the bulk of it.
It sounds like you've had the success obviously harvesting gains and the legacy on real estate portfolio.
Do I hear you right that you are going to accelerate that process here over the next several quarters? I believe you mentioned a figure of $250 million of properties? Yes Steve that's correct.
We've had success selling properties and we believe that it's the right approach now for rate relative to the values within the real estate markets in general and also it allows us to recycle that capital back into the lending business because we will not be selling common shares at this price level.
I totally understand and appreciate that and I think obviously you've got great momentum in this core middle market floating rate senior bridge loan business and I think frankly investors are going to reward you more for the success of that business going forward than the legacy.
I couldn't recall if commented it sounded like the $250 million that we should not expect material gains relative to some of the larger gains you've booked here in the last two quarters did I hear you right on that? Yes it's more about a return of capital and then recycling that capital into the lending business than booking gains.
There probably will be some gains but it's not going to be something that is really that meaningful and it's really not what we're focused on we're focused on.
We're focused on again redeploying the capital or recycling the capital out of the property business at this time in the market.
Got it.
So $50 million would probably allow you to put another $200 million of loans on the portfolio? Approximately.
Okay.
Thank you all for your comments.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Steve.
And our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Your line is now open.
Yes hi and thanks for taking the questions.
Just stepping back the volatility in the market that was experienced this quarter.
How much of it do you think relates to building concerns about where we are in the commercial real estate cycle? You know frothiness in terms of pricing and loosening underwriting standards on the lending side.
This is Scott Davidson again.
I think that more of it - it flows right to question maybe into two portions.
The first is what is really behind the general widening and I think that's much more related to macroeconomic events interest rate policy things that are going on in China just general bond spread widening that you see across multiple asset classes not just CMBS or commercial real estate related.
So that's - and by the way I think the CMBS indices is an easy way for financial folks to hedge some of those macro events and as a consequence can be pushed around a little bit in pack and bond spreads.
I think what you are seeing though in response to sort of part of your question the relates to credit concerns in loans is we're starting to see significant differentiation in transactions.
So when once CMBS deal comes to market and the collateral is agreed by the market to be better you'll see it accommodate significantly tighter spread than transactions where collateral is perceived by the market to be a little bit worse.
So what the market is starting to do is transaction by transaction make a judgment about the transaction and put a price on it.
Based on that however all of those transactions were materially wider in this quarter than in prior as there was a general market widening.
And in terms of the market differentiation what would you characterize as the major points of difference between various CMBS deals.
Is it just property specific stories that the market doesn't like or is it certain lenders or is that concentration risk.
How would you characterize that? I think it's different transaction by transaction I think what's interesting or unique about the CMBS deals the deals are not homogenous.
So one deal you might see a large loan that folks like less that colors the way they feel about entire transaction.
And next you might see - and that's a reason that that deal might trade wide.
And the next transaction you might see an average LTV or average debt yield that is viewed poorly by the market and the next one you might find an average LTV that's lower and a higher debt yield that the market likes.
So it's not as if you could point to one factor it really is a transaction by transaction and loan by loan.
And of course I think what we all like about the real estate market is we have to think both commercial real estate markets as it's not homogenous you got to take loan by loan you have to think about specific markets.
I wish I could tell you this is what it is and then we could all manage around that but it's really deal specific.
I think the macro team of course is that leverage continues to increase and as we get later into the cycle folks generally no more concerned with leverage today than they were two years ago.
In terms of the conduit business one question is have you had any loan kick outs? And two is have margins reset to a more normal levels since I think about 60 to 90 days post the spread widening - margins should be back to the natural level.
As we sit here today we don't have any kick-outs and in terms of - we've been fairly consistent overtime in a way that we price our loans.
So what we've tried to do in this recent widening and what we've seen others do is take accounts where you think the market is at natural level of spread.
We haven't seen others increase spread relative to that increased volatility.
And so - I think there was a period during the widening where nobody knew where the market was and it was hard to price alone.
I think that we - the market stabilized and we have a good sense of where spreads are.
I wouldn't describe the current profit environment as being the one with access profit but it's certainly one where I'll call a normalized profit environment.
Okay.
And then just in terms of how the environment plays to your favor are you seeing any changes in the market that would allow you to price higher loan yields on your bridge-lending book and our borrowers coming back to you more often because other potential lending sources that have been maybe more looking at this is a trade or stepping back a bit.
Is there any of that type of activity going on? I think so I mean we've gotten some feedback although we don't know it firsthand from a couple of borrowers our folks who have pulled out of the floating rate lending market obviously we haven't obviously it's something that we've been doing for a long time and we look forward to continuing to do for a long time.
We have a high number of repeat borrowers across the business and that continues to grow because folks have gotten comfortable that we not only do we do what we say but we close loans as agreed.
So I think the market additions continue to benefit us - the way they benefit us is we're pretty consistent through the market conditions and over long periods of time that works quite well.
So in terms of credit we've maintain a pretty consistent line again in terms of our credit policies and parameters.
And there may have been a moment earlier in the summer or in the spring when other folks were a little bit more aggressive they've become a little bit more chastened and we've been consistent.
And I really do believe that consistency over a long period of time is a winning strategy.
Thanks.
And then can you just provide some color on the Garden City impairment? Certainly this is Scott Shafer.
This is an asset where we had a mezz loan that went into default.
A couple of years ago we took over the property the senior lender sold the loan that was ahead of us.
We felt at the time that there was value in the property and accordingly started working with the new senior lender to try to resolve the whole debt structure.
And we came to the conclusion recently in the fourth quarter of this year that we were not going to try to restructure or payoff the first mortgage or acquire it.
And that we were going to just give the property back to the senior lender.
So even though that is happening in the fourth quarter since we had - we knew about it before we were reporting in third we're taking the charge during the third quarter as an impairment.
I didn't believe that in this time in this environment that it was the best use of rates capital to try to - in effect recapitalize this office building on Long Island.
So that's why we decided to just let it go.
Okay thanks for taking my question.
You're welcome thank you.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 and Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Mr.
Andres Viroslav.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Ileana and good morning to everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust’s fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 financial results.
On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davidson President; and Jim Sebra RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.
This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com.
There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today.
The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with a confirmation code of 38442508.
Before I turn the call over to Scott I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call.
These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views with respect to future events and financial performances.
Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.
Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.
Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call.
A copy of RAIT’s press release containing financial information other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.rait.com under Investor Relations.
RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.
RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.
Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer Scott Schaeffer.
Scott? Thank you Andres.
Thank you for joining us today and welcome to RAIT’s fourth quarter and 2015 year-end earnings call.
Before getting into the financial results I would like to visit [ph] the Board’s decision to reduce the common dividend this past December and then comment on the broader capital market environment.
The decision to reduce the dividend and retain capital while difficult was reached given the volatility in the capital markets.
Throughout the second-half of 2015 CMBS AAA spreads widened from 85 basis points in June to a 140 basis points at year-end and as high as a 170 basis points this year as liquidity declined and investors reduced exposure to risk.
With this backdrop coupled with RAIT’s use of the capital and securitization markets it became clear that the market had dramatically changed and we would not have access to new capital for some period of time.
Accordingly we sized the dividend to $0.09 per quarter which is covered by our expected 2016 and 2017 CAD while still selectively funding new loans and opportunistically reducing corporate leverage.
Today we continue to have the same view as the markets have remained volatile and spreads have yet to normalize.
So while 2015 was a solid year operationally for RAIT with just under $1 billion of loan production and CAD coming in within our expected range our results were more than overshadowed by larger macroeconomic concerns.
It’s uncertain how long these concerns will continue to impact the capital and securitization markets.
So what does this mean for RAIT as we look into 2016? We have an extremely flexible platform that can adjust to market conditions.
Accordingly we have right-sized the platform and are reducing expenses for the current environment.
We will continue to raise capital through the sale of non-core assets and allocate an appropriate amount of capital to support our lending platform.
As Jim will discuss in more detail we’re providing 2016 CAD guidance of $0.85 to $0.95 per share inclusive of $0.35 per share in CAD gains from property sales.
Now let’s talk about our 2015 results.
In 2015 CAD per share totaled $1.11 and CAD without gains when property sales was $0.78 per share.
Gross loan origination were $996 million.
Our floating-rate bridge loan securitizations performed extremely well in 2015 with no credit issues.
We continue to believe that first mortgage transition laid lending generates very good risk adjusted returns.
We closed our fifth floating-rate securitization in December and anticipate closing more floating-rate securitizations in 2016.
Our CMBS loan sale program unlike many others was profitable in each quarter of 2015 as we effectively managed originations through a volatile securitizations market.
In 2016 we will continue to originate in sale loans to the extent we’re comfortable current pricing will generate appropriate risk adjusted returns.
Net operating income from our owned property portfolio continues to grow and our asset and property management business has continued to deliver stable returns supported by the recurring fee streams we generate for managing Independence Realty Trust.
During the fourth quarter we had two legacy loans and mezzanine loan on an industrial portfolio and our first mortgage loan on an office tower transition into REO.
The industrial portfolio consists of 10 properties aggregating 1.6 million square feet.
We have a plan in place to improve the operating performance of the properties and then anticipate selling them individually.
We have characterized the office tower for redevelopment as we are in the early stages of a plan to develop one-third of the property into a mixed-use live/work urban style property which includes partial conversion into apartments.
Looking forward our 2016 and 2017 debt maturity profile is very manageable as the only unsecured corporate level maturity is the potential $30 million put this April associated with our 7% convertible senior bonds.
We are currently expecting bondholders will put the bonds back to the company and we are planning to retire them with available cash.
It’s also worth highlighting that we do not have capital markets based margin co-provisions in our various warehouse facilities and our banking relationships remain strong.
As we allocate available capital this year we will continue to assess new loan originations against the opportunistic repurchase of our securities.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results.
Jim? Thank you Scott.
Before discussing the numbers I’d like to point out that supplemental package we published for the first time this quarter.
The supplemental contains additional portfolio and capital provision information as well as operating performance metrics and consolidating financial information.
This supplemental package is available on our website rait.com in the Investor Relation section.
CAD for the fourth quarter was $25.7 million or $0.28 per common share.
This includes $0.09 of property sale gains resulting in $0.19 of base CAD in Q4.
Year-to-date our CAD was $1.11 including $0.33 of property gains base CAD was $0.78 for 2015.
From a GAAP perspective for the fourth quarter we are reporting net income of $1.8 million or $0.02 per diluted share and $0.08 for the year ended December 31.
In our lending business during 2015 we saw net loan growth of $231 million.
New loan originations were $996 million loan repayments were $291 million and CMBS loan sales were $425 million.
Net interest margin declined in 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to the deconsolidation of the Taberna CDOs in late 2014 which were not present in 2015.
On a linked-quarter basis net interest margin increased due to increased loan production and reduced amortization of deferred financing costs.
From a credit perspective we increased our provisioning for loan losses to $2.4 million on higher loan volume and an increase in our watchlist loans.
While our non-accrual loans decreased to 2.2% of our loan portfolio we did see an increase in our watchlist loans related to our first mortgage loans collateralized by seven properties totaling $74.8 million that matures later this year.
We’re actively working with the borrower as he seeks to sell the assets.
We do expect the full recovery of our loan.
As at year-end our loan loss reserves were $17 million or 1.1% of our $1.6 billion loan portfolio.
We continue to see improvement in our real estate portfolio as well.
The supplemental package provides same-store portfolio results quarter-by-quarter and year-by-year.
All of our same-store categories saw an increase in net operating income with a 7.1% increase in the fourth quarter of 2015 and a 11.7% increase in 2015 when compared to the similar period in 2014.
As Scott highlighted we converted two loans to own real estate in Q4.
The first loan and a $11 million mezzanine loan on 10 industrial assets with 1.6 million square feet was converted in October of 2015.
We took control of the property after one property became vacant and the borrower decided not to invest additional equity for leasing and tenant improvements.
We expect full recovery of this investment.
The second loan at $57 million first mortgage on a 769 000 square foot office tower and 429 space apartment drives in downtown Cleveland was converted in December 2015.
We’ve identified a redevelopment plan to take 252 000 square feet approximately one-third of the building and convert the floors to 184 multifamily units.
The potential for significant upside exists in redeveloping office space to multifamily through higher per square foot rents increased NOI per square foot and a lower cap rate valuation.
Lastly during the fourth quarter we sold five properties and generated a gain of $19.1 million.
Three of these properties in multifamily and two were office properties.
Before discussing 2016 guidance I’d like to address adjusted book value.
As you see it is missing from our disclosures this quarter.
We adopted ABV in mid-2012 when our GAAP book value exceeded $13 per share due to the vagaries associated with the consolidation of the Taberna CDOs.
The primary purpose of ABV was to give investors a real book value without Taberna.
It’s been a year since we deconsolidated Taberna and after multiple discussions with the SEC staff regarding ABV we have agreed to remove it from our reported results for Q4.
We will also remove it from our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Before handing this call back to Scott let’s review our 2016 guidance.
Given current market conditions we are taking a relatively conservative view with our 2016 guidance.
As stated in our – in the earnings release we are guiding to 2016 CAD of between $0.85 to $0.95 per common share which includes $0.35 of gains in the sale of real estate assets or a base CAD of $0.50 to $0.60 per share.
This guidance assumes loan originations of between $200 and $500 million no projected CMBS gain on sale income and no new capital raise.
The decrease in our 2016 base CAD from the $0.78 of base CAD in 2015 is driven by reduced loan production estimates and the associated origination fees.
No projected CMBS gain on sale income in 2016 versus $7.2 million in 2015 and $10.5 million of less property net operating income associated with property sales in 2015 and 2016.
For Q1 we are expecting CAD between $0.12 and $0.14 per share.
Scott this concludes the financial report.
Back to you.
Thank you Jim.
At this time operator I’d like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good morning everyone.
I want to talk a little bit about some of the volatility that we’ve seen obviously in the CMBS market.
How are you thinking about that in terms of your expectation for the own – your own kind of I guess conduit into this year? Is it kind of just going to be somewhat irrelevant or you’re going to maybe try to push a little bit harder now the spreads just kind of gapped out so much further? All right.
Hi this is Scott Davidson.
It’s clearly and as Scott Schaeffer alluded in his discussion point it’s been a very difficult market as spreads have been widening and pretty much only move in one way.
At the same time that the residual interest buyer – these buyers continued to exercise greater caution with regard to loans if they’re comfortable with.
So it’s been a very difficult market and the one that I think the only way you can rationally approach is with a great deal of caution.
You need excess margin.
You need to make sure that the loans that you’re closing at an easy and evident sale exit.
And it’s never smart to set in front of a moving train or catch a falling knife or whatever the ray analogy is.
So we like the market over a long periods of time because we think over a long periods of time it produces excess returns.
At the moment though the risk return doesn’t seem to be great.
And we’re exceedingly cautious because we’ve managed to do relatively well in the recent performance period and we want to make sure that we continue to.
So I would describe that as we like the business long-term but we’re really cautious right now.
And Dan that’s exactly why in our guidance we are being conservative and saying that we are not projecting CMBS gains.
We still are in the market.
We are – still are looking at loans.
We’re just began as Scott said we’re being very cautious relative to the pricing.
We’ve had no credit issues whatsoever it’s all about the pricing.
And our next question comes from the line on Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and thanks – appreciate you taking the question.
We touched on the new issue CMBS market and understand your pasture there.
And as I hear Scott’s comments of Scott Davidson that is that it sounds like you are going to step back and be very cautious but I don’t want to put words in your mouth.
But I heard that you’re going to try to keep your optionality in place and the event that that market does come back.
Did I hear you correctly there? You’ve heard us certainly correctly.
We like the market long-term.
I think it’s difficult at the moment but have faced that over long periods of time their excess returns that it can be drawn from it.
Great and thanks for clarifying Scott because we have seen some press reports or some companies that have actually officially thrown in the talent and shutdown.
So it’s good to know kind of where you guys stand with the longer-term view.
But on the other side of securitization in December you did your fifth floating-rate deal seem to be on fairly good terms like 75 advance rate LIBOR plus 2.60% something like in that neighborhood.
I’m just curious if you’re in touch with that market I have not seen much printed anyway in the press about new floating-rate CLO type financings.
I’m just curious if you think that market is viable for you in 2016 and tying that into the comments that your assumptions on your modeling are that you will have no access to additional capital? Are you including floating-rate CMBS in the definition of what you would consider access to capital? Thanks.
Well so there’s a multipart question there.
And as it relates to… Yes it was.
…right and Jim has sort of model capital usage going forward.
I’ll ask him at the end to sort of comment on that with his models and he is clearly on top of capital.
As it relates to the market you did note and you were right we did a deal in December and we were proud.
And in the middle of a relatively difficult market as investors looked at the quality of our collateral and we tried hard to structure the transactions more in a very straightforward manner and make them look more like sequential pace CMBS transactions and less like CLOs but there was greater response.
Okay.
We felt like there was great response for that transaction in the market and we were very happy that it’s not only got done but got done in a way that produce good economic returns for us.
And in some respects I believe and it’s my opinion that further validates the model because we could do it in that market I think we can continue to do it through other market.
So we like the exposure to the first mortgage loans.
We think that pricing is probably better and easier to achieve in this type of market then in the one that we saw previously.
It is hard to know as you correctly point out because there are a few deals done and not very many deals when they are done look exactly like ours whether that’s because they’re not as margin as whether that’s because it’s slightly different credit collateral characteristics whether that’s because there are different structural features in the transactions themselves.
There are therefore perfect analogies to our transactions and we become a little bit behold into the market at the time that we seek to enter it.
The good news is we don’t have to enter the market or we don’t plan on entering the market in the short-term.
And the long-term we feel [and so if] [ph] we’re able to get the deals done in December when it’s our turn to come we’re going to get our next deal done as well.
We’ve made plans for the execution – the bond execution being a little bit worse and we of course hope and we will try it very hard to make sure it’s a little bit better.
But notwithstanding that again over long periods of time we think we can produce really high risk adjusted returns as we like and as all begins and it all really ends in a lot of ways liking the credit quality associated with the underlying loans and the structures we are talking about become an efficient financing vehicle for them as long as we like the credit terms.
Great.
That color is helpful.
Jim? Hey Steve.
Yes this is Jim.
So our assumption around no capital what we mean by that is no equity capital issued and/or no additional recourse debt is issued.
So we do plan for securitization to happen.
Great.
Thank you for clarifying that and appreciate the comments guys.
Thank you Steve.
And our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Your line is now open.
Hi thanks.
This is actually Ryan on for Jade.
First of all I think the supplemental provides a lot of good incremental disclosure especially surrounding the own real estate.
So as it relates to that can you talk about how management views current NAV of the portfolio? And given the amount of property sales you continue to forecast in 2016 can you say what types of percentage gains that those gains are implying on the real estate you are selling? Management’s view of NAV is one where similar to the discussion that we had on ABV there are a number of fee streams within the company that we created.
And as such they are not the underlying or GAAP value does not include any value for those fee streams and they are long-term recurring fee streams.
So the discussion we had with the SEC as Jim spoke about was related to how you mark those fee streams.
And we agreed that we would not continue to publish an adjusted book value where we were marking assets similar to that.
So we have the same difficulty with NAV.
I think you can look at the balance sheet of the company.
You can see the properties that we’re selling and they’re being sold largely with some gains.
And you can look at the fee streams that are generated from the property management and the asset management of IRT and make your own conclusions as to what you think the company is worth.
And we would love to be publishing numbers but we just feel it’s again pursuant to the discussions that we’ve had that we should stop frankly.
Great.
That’s really helpful.
And then just regarding management’s overall view of the market and the cycle just given the larger amount of scrutiny that CRE has been getting across the board from regulators.
Can you talk about management’s view of the current environments and particularly as it relates to the balance sheet business how the volatility is impacting underwriting standards and structures for the new loans that you are originating? Well we all know that the environment is driven largely by the capital markets has become more difficult.
However from an underlying credit perspective unless you’re focused on regions that are currently that are experiencing difficulty related to some event in that region whether that’s energy related or something specific to another location.
We really haven’t seen fundamental credit performance at least from my knowledge change particularly dramatically for the commercial real estate generally.
So we’re in the happy circumstance of being able to look and analyze real estate credit in the fundamental way that we always have ground up bottom up lease by lease location by location while at the same time given the capital markets dislocation being able to be as firm as we ever have been with regard to credit terms with regard to leverage with regard to the structures that we’re providing to individual borrowers.
And in some sense it probably feels a little bit like the markets likely to come to us.
That is to say 12 or 18 months ago we may have being willing to make a loan and found that perhaps that others in the market might on the margin be more aggressive as it relates to credit terms.
We didn’t sort of move ours to match and maybe lost loans on the margin as a consequence.
Today it feels like if we want to make a loan at our credit terms we’re able to and then the discussion becomes what’s the right price.
And we’re not really losing loans because someone is being more aggressive on credit.
I think our view of credit has been stable and it’s probably more has always been more in line with where the market is today.
The challenge comes to somebody who wants to do something.
It’s not economic from a place perspective and it also doesn’t feel like it’s a good environment to be usually aggressive from a pricing perspective regardless of whether that’s a fixed rate CMBS loan or a floating-rate loan.
So I don’t know if that answers your question.
but it definitely seems like the credit terms we’re able to get in today’s market are relatively advantageous and more consistent with the market that we would like.
Great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR.
Your line is now open.
Hey thanks.
Yes I just want to ask kind of a follow-up As I think about the right side of the balance sheet as we go into 2016 I was wondering how are you viewing kind of like the current leverage of the company and thoughts maybe to potentially or if there are opportunities maybe take that down at all and maybe there’s some debt that’s coming due some converts coming due and so forth? We view the right side of the balance sheet probably the same way as you do Dan.
We would like to bring the leverage down.
It’s our intention to do so.
Part of the capital allocation analysis that we went through at the end of last year was recognizing that we have – we put on the 7% convertible bonds coming this April and we wanted to make sure that we had sufficient liquidity to just write the check frankly and pay that off when it comes.
But we’re also looking at our other unsecured debt and where it’s trading and recognizing that that current levels that could be a good investment as well.
Okay.
And then maybe just also thinking about it towards the end of the year I think you all executed another securitization I guess when you did it but were you happy about with the execution and the pricing regard? And I guess if you were to go back in some market today for a new deal what do you think pricing looks like or is that market maybe closed? Your first question we’re happy with the transaction at December we were.
For a host of reasons most importantly we were able to get it done in a very very difficult environment at terms that we thought provided strong economics.
Whether or not if your question is is the market open today I believe that if we had a transaction to bring that was similarly structured that there would be a market for us and our investors would probably be quite interested in it.
What the spread might be is – and the execution is anybody’s guess since December generally the credit markets have gotten worse.
The markets are more difficult.
And the conversation I would suspect if I were a bond investor I would ask for wider spread and of course if I were at RAIT I would argue that we’ve got the best credit quality collateral of our loans.
We’ve done more deals than anyone else and investors would be lucky to buy our bonds in a tighter spread and we have a discussion between those two pools I’m sure.
But having said that we are recognizing as Scott says that the bond investors might be looking for wider spreads.
And we take that into consideration as we’re originating new floating-rate loans on the asset side.
Yes.
And again that’s a great segway just my last question.
I mean how fast can you maybe adjust the rate card or as you’re monitoring what’s going on in CMBS land or CLO land how fast can you react to where the capital markets are pricing when you go out to folks and think about trying to lock-in a new loan? The only thing that we can’t do is adjust the coupon on loans that are already closed.
Absent that we can and do react on a daily basis with regard to where we think spreads are and prices are.
So as long as loan isn’t closed we avail ourselves of the ability and do change spreads according to market.
Okay thanks.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Dan.
And our next question comes from the line of David Walrod with Ladenburg.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning David.
Given your new CAD guidance and your modeling for 2016 I know a lot of this can change.
But at this point you would envision that you will need to adjust the dividend again to meet current operating requirements or do you – is that and that’s the thing you’re looking at this point? No and thank you for the question.
To clarify that’s what I said in my earlier remarks that at the $0.09 the dividend is covered through 2016 and 2017 assuming no new capital raises and zero gains from CMBS sales.
So we’ve taken a conservative view relative to loan production and profitability and the dividend at $0.09 is still covered for the next 24 months.
Great.
And then also Scott you briefly commented in your opening remarks about potential for a share buyback.
Can you address that please? Well I said securities.
And we’re always looking at it and we’re always discussing it with the Board.
At this time we’re looking at where the liabilities are trading and recognizing that lower leverage in times of stress is better.
That’s really where we’re focused at the moment.
But we are constantly discussing all securities with the Board.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I’d now like to turn it back over to Mr.
Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
And we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes today’s program.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.