Good day everyone.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call for Transocean Ltd.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn this conference over to Mr.
Gregory Panagos Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Anna.
Good morning and welcome to Transocean's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
A copy of the first quarter press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company's website at <a href="http://www.deepwater.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.deepwater.com</u></a>.
We've also posted a file containing four charts that will be discussed during this morning's call.
That file can be found on the company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint Charts.
The charts included cover first average contracted dayrate by rig type out of service rig months operating and maintenance cost trends free cash flow backlog and debt maturities.
The Quarterly Toolkit also has four additional financial tables for your convenience covering first revenue efficiency and other revenue details daily operating and maintenance costs by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me on this morning's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Ricardo Rosa Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Ihab Toma Executive Vice President Global Business; and Terry Bonno Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I would like to point out that during the course of this conference call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results and the prospects for the contract drilling business.
As you know it is inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand and operational and other risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
As I indicated earlier you will find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally in order to give more people an opportunity to ask questions please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow up.
Thank you.
That concludes the preliminary details.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steven.<br> Thanks Greg.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Our reported first quarter earnings were $0.96 per diluted share.
After adjusting for discontinued operations and the other items noted in our press release diluted earnings per share would have been $0.53.
This compared to $0.67 for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Adjusted earnings per share were down $0.14 sequentially primarily driven by an increase in our effective tax rate partially offset by lower depreciation and increased interest income.
Revenues and cost with the exception of depreciation were essentially flat quarter-to-quarter.
Ricardo will walk you through the change in our effective tax rate and the details of our financial results shortly followed by Terry who will provide some color on the market.
First though I want to make a few comments.
Looking at the market globally sustained high crude oil prices are contributing to increased interest across oil rig categories.
During the first quarter we were pleased to see this increased interest manifest itself and our ability to sign $2.5 billion worth of contracts which Terry will talk more about shortly.
Driven primarily by Petrobras’ urgency to fulfill their immediate needs along with increased tendering activity globally we’re beginning to see the near term availability of the ultra deepwater rig diminish.
It’s also very encouraging to see that we’re already discussing contracts that would commence in 2012 and beyond.
The deepwater and mid-water markets which had been soft until recently are beginning to show signs of a pick up in the second half of this year.
While the deepwater market may be in the earlier stages of its ramp up mid-water tendering pace is noticeably accelerating.
As the supply tightens in both the ultra deepwater and mid-water markets we expect to see the deepwater market follow suite and tighten as well.
This dynamic should lead to increasing day rates as we move into 2012.
On the Jack up side strong demand for high spec continues.
At the same time the limited supply of such rigs relative to increasing visible demand indicates the standard jack ups should begin to see more opportunities as well.
During our last quarter call I talked about our disappointing revenue efficiency.
Our reported revenue efficiency in the first quarter was 90% slightly higher than the 88.7% we’ve reported in the fourth quarter of 2010.
However fourth quarter efficiency was understated by 2.3% because of a customer dispute.
During the first quarter all rig categories performed at or above our expectations and historical levels in terms of revenue efficiency with the exception of our ultra deepwater and deepwater rigs.
While more work needs to be done and it will take time to get where we need to be.
I believe we’ve turned the corner and are beginning to see some improvement in this important area.
If we continue making progress I think we would be back to normal levels by the end of this year.
To do this we are focused on a comprehensive program of equipment reliability which involves total inspection by Transocean and third-party experts to understand the baseline condition of the equipment standardize maintenance plan to ensure the equipment meets Transocean’s high standards and regular testing to make certain the equipment performs as required.
Our India and Middle East division where this program began in mid 2010 continues to report excellent results proving that our program can deliver sustainable results globally.
Recognizing the critical role our subsidy equipment vendors play in providing us with quality equipment in a timely manner we have also taken a significant step in placing Transocean personnel in over 45 vendor facilities around the world assisting our vendors with demand planning and quality control in order to help them cope with an unprecedented surge in activity.
I continue to believe that our internal focus on equipment reliability along with the enhanced external support we are providing to our vendors will deliver improved revenue efficiency results during 2011 and beyond.
demonstrating our commitment to invest in a disciplined manner in that component of our fleet as well.
Our world-class fleet combined with the operating strength and expertise of our people puts us in a competitive position that is second to none.
Disposing of non-core assets could take the form of one-off asset sales as you have seen us do with the Trident 20 and the Mercury or transactions involving packages of asset.
While I cannot commit to a timeframe for any possible action we will continue to explore all possibilities.
We recently filed a supplement to our proxy updating you on some potential political and legal challenges to the Swiss tax laws governing dividends out of APIC.
As we indicate in the supplemental information while we believe that the possibility of these challenges could affect the tax withholding status of our plan 2011 dividend is remote.
We want to be sure our shareholders are aware of any potential challenges to the dividend no matter how remote the possibilities may be.
What if any impact these potential challenges may have on our future cash distribution in 2012 and beyond is too difficult to speculate on right now.
We will continue to monitor the situation and work to preserve liability to return cash to our shareholders in as flexible and tax efficient manner as possible.
Regarding the Macondo.
We recently honored the lost men in their family at a Memorial Service held on the first anniversary of the accident.
We continue to make progress on our internal investigation but we are currently awaiting the results of further testing of the Deepwater Horizon BOP to incorporate into our findings.
Delays in these results will affect the timing of our report which we now expect to release in June assuming that the additional BOP testing data is made available soon.
The Coast Guard recently released their interim report which was critical of all parties involved with the Macondo well.
Specifically it was critical to Transocean in three respects the material condition of the Deepwater Horizon and emergency preparedness the vessels do command organization and our safety management systems.
It is important to note that the Coast Guard had inspected the Deepwater Horizon only seven months before the accident and at the time of the accident the rig was in compliance with all applicable Coast Guard regulations.
I think it is also significant that none of the critics in the Coast Guard report are related to the cause of the explosion nor do they point the negligence or gross negligence.
In addition directly contradicting speculation regarding our internal emergency risk response and safety management systems is the fact that 115 out of 126 crewmembers survived the accidents.
In keeping with the court’s deadline for filing claims related to the Macondo incident on April 20 affiliates of BP and others filed claims against the company for cost associated with the Macondo oil spill and we also filed claims against BP and other parties to enforce our indemnification rights.
These filings were in response to the courts deadline that all claims must be submitted by April 20 or claimants lose their to right to sue.
Although we are disappointed at the prospect of legal actions with an important customer like BP the claims by BP and others were expected.
I want to assure you that we remain confident in our belief that the cost associated with the Macondo well incident are the responsibility of BP.
And nothing in recent investigations has changed that belief.
We fully expect BP to honor its agreements and meet its contractual indemnification obligations as spelled out in the BP Deepwater Horizon contract.
Lastly I would like to thank the 18 000 plus Transocean employees for their dedication and hard work maintaining our focus on constantly improving our performance.
With this great team as well as the world-class fleet Transocean remains uniquely positioned to continue to lead the off shore drilling industry.
With that I will turn the call over to Ricardo to take you through the numbers.
Ricardo?  Thank you Steven and hello everyone.
As Steven has mentioned we reported net income of $310 million or $0.96 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2010.
Excluding the four items highlighted in our press release which I will discuss in more detail.
First quarter net income was $0.53 per diluted share compared to $0.67 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2010.
Compared to the prior quarter adjusted first quarter 2011 results were generally flat with a few exceptions.
Our annual effective tax rate of 19.3% mainly reflects the change in the mix of operating locations.
In addition we recognized a tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2010 which was the result of the redeployment of certain rigs.
The change in the annual effective tax rate alone which totaled $88 million accounted for a $0.28 drop in adjusted earnings per share in the first quarter.
Partially offsetting the higher annual effective tax rate was a $27 million decrease in depreciation due to the impact of the prior quarter impairment charge against the carrying value of the standard jack up fleet.
As highlighted in our press release and in line with our continuing efforts to disposal of non-strategic assets we have classified as discontinued operation the oil and gas properties of Challenger Minerals our exploration and production business as well as our Caspian Sea contract drilling operations.
The $176 million of income generated by these operations in the quarter was due almost entirely to the gain on sale of the subsidiary earning the Trinidad 20 our sole rig operating in the Caspian Sea.
We expect to close on the sale of the Challenger Minerals properties in the second half of this year.
We do not expect recurring net income in future quarters to be significantly impacted by the disposal of these operations.
Contract drilling revenues decreased $59 million from the prior quarter due to lower utilization level mainly impacting deepwater ands mid-water floaters.
Lower utilization was due to higher shipyard time in particular the Prospect and Falcon 100 the stacking of the Sovereign Explorer and Richardson and some unplanned downtime impacting the Sedco 702 and 706.
Rig time in shipyard increased by 10 months compared to the previous quarter.
The increase was almost entirely due to reactivation work on jack ups approximately six months and about four months of new contract prep work on floaters.
A $75 million improvement in revenues from drilling management services more than offset the decline in contract drilling.
The increased cost in this low margin business offset declining cost in contract drilling and resulted in higher operating and maintenance expenses in the quarter.
Our guidance for 2011 operating and maintaining expenses remains unchanged between $5.4 billion and $5.7 billion.
However we currently expect these costs for the full year before at the higher end of the range mainly as a result of increased drilling management services activity where we expect cost to increase from $450 million to $580 million.
Other revenues are expected to increase by similar amounts.
Wage pressures in high growth countries such as Brazil and globally to certain specialized positions offshore adverse foreign exchange movements due to continued weakening of the U.S.
dollar and most significantly increases in estimated time and expenditures in shipyards mainly in the second quarter has reflected in the updated chart 2 of our website tool kit.
The 14 rig months increased in out of service time during the second quarter compared to our previous second quarter estimates is partly driven by the reactivation and contract preparation activities that I highlighted earlier.
It is also partly impacted by delays encountered in obtaining MPL-5 or similar recertifications of subsea control systems from capacity constraint vendors and stringent industry expectations with respect to equipment condition.
In short while we expect to move toward the upper end of our operating cost guidance range much of the increase is positive longer-term because it reflects increased drilling activity and reactivations.
Macondo well related expenses at $23 million net of insurance recovery incurred during the first quarter was slightly below the prior quarter.
And our guidance for these expenses remain unchanged is $100 million for the year.
Our 2011 guidance for capital expenditures remains unchanged at $1.1 billion.
Net interest expense is expected to remain unchanged at $570 million to $590 million but we have revised our forecast annual effective tax rate upwards from the 17% to 19% range to the 19% to 21% range.
This adjustment for our annual effective tax rate reflects a forecast change in the geographic mix of our income in 2011 and changes in timing of shipyard.
Operating cash flows generated in the first quarter at $390 million were $406 million low than the previous quarter mainly reflecting an increase in working capital with collections from customers returning to normal levels.
Our cash balance of $3.8 billion at the quarter-end combined with our projections of continued positive operating cash flows and lower capital commitments position us well to continue executing on our capital structure strategy and reinvesting in our business.
Assuming the applicable resolution that are approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May we expect to distribute in four installments $1 billion of the dividend from APIC additional paid-in capital.
We also expect to reduce our gross debt balance by approximately $1.7 billion to the repayment of the remaining Series B Convertible Notes assuming there are footprints at the end of the year.
At this point I will hand over to Terry to provide you some commentary on the state of the markets.
Thanks Ricardo and hello to everyone.
While I cover specific market I would like to make a few general comments.
As we stated in our previous conference call we believe that 2011 is going to be an exciting year.
It has certainly been successful thus far for Transocean from the contracting perspective as we had executed contract worth over $2.5 billion since the beginning of the year and we expect more positive news to follow as we move through the next quarter.
With the additional backlog we have reversed the downward trend that we have experienced since the fourth quarter 2008.
For tendering pace in worldwide ultra deepwater market over the past quarter has been brisk.
Previously available ultra deepwater units have been snatched up by customers who are anxiously secure capacity for the upcoming programs.
The rush to contract available fleet has been nurtured by the stable and now raising commodity price coupled with Petrobras’ urgency to fulfill their immediate needs.
We expect more awards to be announced shortly as the 2011 supply of ultra deepwater unit gets fully committed.
Even in a timeframe as near term uncertainty in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Contracting activity in the deepwater market has been light but we expect to see more opportunities in the second half of 2011.
While we are seeing some idle capacity in the near-term especially for the Motley the lack of available ultra deepwater units should improve the deepwater market going forward.
The mid-water market outlook for the second half of ’11 is also positive as tendering activity has been very highly in the U.K Asia India and West Africa with our available mid-water fleet being there on multiple tenders.
In the end high-spec jack up market continues to improve resulting in anticipated demand outpacing supply for high-spec units in the second half of 2011.
The significant demand increase is recently announced in the Middle East in addition to active tendering in Mexico Southeast Asia and U.K.
will create more opportunities for the standard jack up fleet.
I’ll now go to the various markets and will begin with a discussion on the ultra deepwater market.
The sentiment in the worldwide ultra deepwater market has further improved with the expectation as Petrobras disclosed the finalizing commitments on three ultra deepwater units.
The other reason the contracting activity in this market there is very little availability remaining for 2011 and we’re barely into May.
Reflecting this positive trend we are very close to finalizing an agreement on the Sedco Energy our only available ultra-deepwater unit in 2011.
Additionally we executed the following fixtures since our last earnings call.
Discoverer India five-year extension at 508 000 a day in India Sedco expressed one well at 490 000 a day plus another contract for 90 days at 470 000 a day in Israel.
GSF Explorer 90 day’s extension at 510 in Indonesia.
U.S.
government recovered permanently and is showing improvement with 11 permits awarded thus far and 36 permits ready to be approved.
In Brazil we expect Petrobras to retender that 1 500 meter opportunity and contract at least two units.
As the years goes on we have created more opportunities where we pursued with a pretty solid plan.
We regard these as prime opportunities to further increase our market share in this important market.
Our outlook is optimistic for the ultra-deepwater market and we are now in discussions for opportunity beyond 2011 further supporting our belief in the long-term ultra-deepwater market.
Turning to the Deepwater market our contracting activity has been a bit light over the past quarter we were able to secure a 210 day extension on the Jack Ryan at 380 K in Australia bringing the total awards for 2011 for the global rig fleet since the start of the year and we contracted to those fixtures.
We continue to look for opportunities to return our deepwater units to the market and believe that the demand picture will improve for the second half of 2011.
Moving onto the worldwide Midwater Floater market the tendering and contracting activities continues to be very active resulting in some two of our units returning to work the Sedco 701 for one well at 210 K in Gabon and the Sedco 135 for five months at 264 K in Nigeria during the last quarter.
Additionally price options have been exercised on the Transocean prospect and the Sedco 704 in the UK.
We are also in advanced discussions on multiple Midwater unit with our customers in the UK West Africa Asia and Australia and expect to capitalize on these opportunities shortly.
We expect a positive demand picture in the Midwater market and continue to provide opportunities for our Midwater fleet.
Available Deepwater units will continue to compete in the Midwater market and so we see a bit more Deepwater demand in the second half of ‘11.
Moving to the Jackup market demand continues to build for High-Spec jackup and we expect that the contracting pace will pick up shortly with a number of active tenders being evaluated.
Our discussions regarding opportunities for the Transocean Honor are encouraging and we expect to have some positive news regarding the placement of this high spec newbuild.
We had a very active contract imperial for our high spec in Standard Jackups resulting in the execution of six contract for the work rates ranging from the high-80 with the high-140s in the last quarter.
With the anticipated tightening of the high spec fleets driven by increasing demand over the next few quarters we expect more contracting opportunity for our Standard Jackups and based on our current engagement with our customers we remain positive about the opportunity to secure programs for our active unit and to put a few of our stack unit back to work.
In conclusion 2011 is leading us to our high expectations with a robust level of commodity pricing and the increase in tendering and contracting activity across most markets.
We remain very positive in our long-term outlook and believe the transition with its unique three portfolio is well placed to benefit from this improving market environment.
With that I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thank you.
Anna we’re ready to open up the Q&amp;A in taking questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
Keegan &amp; Company Inc</strong> Yes good morning.
Good morning Roger.
Keegan &amp; Company Inc</strong>  Good afternoon I guess in case.
It is afternoon in (Inaudible) Keegan &amp; Company Inc</strong> Yes.
They will spread out.
If you look at this number one thanks for the in depth review of the market conditions here I was trying to reconcile one thing one of the other calls earlier in this earning season that was talk away contract tender in Brazil that they ended up pulling the high spec equipment bid on it yet it was a they were happy with the standard type deepwater rig lets say I suppose to ultra deepwater.
And there were a lot of rigs that bid on that contract I’m just trying to reconcile that with what appears to be a much more tighter market as you all are looking at kind of what may be it was a timing issue when that contract began but trying to put the two pieces together there?  Hi Roger this is Terry.
The 1 500 meter tender was cancelled though it has several reasons for that but I think basically Petrobras wanted to test the market and wanted to see where the market rights are going to be offered and I believe that they saw that at this time the rights that were offered were higher than their expectation.
And then there was some procedural issues also that just to say that they’ll be back in the market and we’ll see how they put the new tender forward.
It could be a reduction in the rate I mean I am sorry a reduction in the water debt and maybe a reduction in capability.
But we’re hearing both things we’re hearing it could be a higher spec it could be a lower spec.
Again the important thing to remember is they’re going to come back out for a tender we’re going to take two more rigs off the market.
Keegan &amp; Company Inc</strong>  Okay thanks.
And then the other question I had was on the operating cost side the last conference call the range was given it’s in your higher end of the range assuming you bring rigs back into the market.
Obviously that looks to be the indications here.
Is that the only thing driving that in the drilling management cost the only thing driving into the higher range or is there anything else? I mean other than the items you mentioned Brazil and so forth it's pushing on the higher cost side? I think that I gave a pretty comprehensive list of the items that will impact our operating expenses.
As I said earlier it’s largely as a result of the additional shipyard time and some wage pressures.
We will see potentially depending on where the rigs are deployed geographically some cost upside while the cost increases as a result of the location where they likely to operate.
But the main drivers are the ones that I mentioned in my prepared notes.
Keegan &amp; Company Inc</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Urban of Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good afternoon.
Hello Mike.
I wanted to dig into your comments about some of the kind of the differed; I guess divergent trends in the floater market.
It makes a lot of sense; you’re seeing that tightness in the ultra deepwater market.
I was a bit surprised to hear that the mid-water market at least from a tendering standpoint kind of tightening so rapidly without really commensurate improvement in deepwater.
I would normally kind of think of it as a progression downward from a specs standpoint.
What’s driving that dynamic there? Good morning Mike.
As we look at what's happening in the market a lot of the mid-water opportunities the demand has been there.
But now with the high price the demand is really coming out very strong.
And I understand what you're saying you're saying that the deepwater competes down into the mid-water.
And until that market tightens we’re still going to see capacity in the mid-water arena.
But we can see with the buildup that in mid 2011 that we believe we are going to see a lot more opportunity.
So that means that the market tightens completely now.
I think we’ve got a lot of capacity before we get to that stage.
But each asset class has to move up through where it is fit for purpose.
So the Deepwater has to move back to working in the Deepwater.
And then the Ultra-Deepwater has to tighten a bit more so that each asset class is working in the segment that they were build for.
So that’s what we see the increase in demand is pretty prolific and we expect again to see a positive picture by mid 2011.
So what is the function of kind of where the projects are located for like capability and water depth standpoint that’s kind of the driver?  Yes.
Okay.
And then as you do see the market tighten up how would you view un-stacking some of the capacity that you have stacked right now and kind of the timing of that? Do you still need to build up a significant amount of backlog on the existing rigs do you need to see pricing go up how you’re thinking about stacking that item capacity right now?  In both Ricardo’s comments and Terry’s comments we indicated that we’re in the process today of shipyards related to reactivation.
And so as an incremental project comes in we look at the opportunity in terms of the economics that might justify reactivating additional capacity.
So we’ll continue to do that Mike.
We think demand is going to tighten.
We think that the outlook is good and we think that should present opportunities to us to think about further reactivation.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And next we’ll hear from Scott Burk with Canaccord.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Hello? How are you? Hey.
How is it going? I want to also ask about the Midwater rig to bring taking out the stacking.
Previously you’ve given some ranges about how much it’d cost for a certain percentage of your fleet although I think those are more focusing of your Jackup fleet.
Can you talk about how much would cost to bring out the remaining five or six rigs that are currently stacked in Midwater fully? But then Scott the way I’ve described it for the Jackups is probably analogies to the way I would describe it for the Floaters.
That’s probably a third of those rigs.
One or two of those rigs could come back well relatively easily probably $30 million or so in terms of reactivation expenses.
There’s probably another one or two that would cost in excess of $60 million or $70 million and there is a couple that we are not contemplating reactivating because the costs are simply prohibited.
Okay.
And when you look at the rates that they are receiving this 210 000 260 000 down is to reactivated rigs.
Are those the kind of rates you anticipate towards the second half as this demand continues or do you see up sight to those rate levels? Yes Scott.
This is Terry.
What we’re seeing now it’s been stable for quite some time.
We are seeing a little bit of movement in the U.K.
market but you would expect that because it is extremely tight.
So I think stable – I’d say stable to improving.
We still got out some capacity out there and that’s how I would view it.
And then on those two rigs that just came out of stacking the contract was relatively short if I’m looking at the right ones.
I assume that you anticipate some additional work after those contracts are up or you wouldn’t bought them out of service what do you anticipate after this current contracts?  Well there is numerous opportunities out there that we’re currently tendering.
And then if you look at India alone has got 12 rig years.
Those are four separate opportunities.
And I like our chances and there is quite a few more opportunities out there.
So I think that with given the active tendering pace we like what we see.
That sounds terrific.
It is very good color.
And then one other question about revenue efficiency if you look back at 2008 revenue efficiency was almost 95%.
With the various levers that you guys are doing the increasing inspections and what not.
Can you get back to those levels of revenue efficiency or should we anticipate that first quarter levels are kind of be where we stay.
Scott I will be pretty frank with you.
I’m not happy with the first quarter revenue efficiency particularly in Deepwater and Ultra-Deepwater.
And I have said I think we can get back to historical levels.
We are already there with the other asset classes with the exception of Deepwater and Ultra-Deepwater.
And I think the programs that we have in place the efforts that our people are going through I think are going to help us return to that historical level of revenue efficiency.
All right thanks.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah thank you thank you very much.
Sort of little bit more on the structure of the company.
We are starting to see quite a few I wouldn’t say stock ups but fuel play Deepwater companies.
How do you see your company competing and positioning itself over the medium-term given your array of assets from kind of the low-end to the very very high-end.
Do you see any benefits in potential during what you did with quite a few years ago and spinning out some of the older assets and may be leaving them as an asset player on the really strong market while focusing the core company on the more narrow asset base and more modern asset base? That is an excellent question.
It speaks to strategy we have been talking publicly about for quite awhile now.
We are focused on increasing our exposure to high spec assets.
Both high spec floaters and high spec jackups and decreasing our exposure to low spec of commodity class assets.
So we’ve just come out of our 10 rig ultradeep water new build program and I really like all position in the ultradeep water and the high spec Floater fleets.
We’re in the process today of building three high spec Jackups so we’re finding opportunities.
Our marketing people are doing an excellent job in finding opportunities for us to reinvest in high spec Jackups in a disciplined manner.
We’re going to continue to look for those kinds of opportunity.
So I think the company has done an excellent job in pursuing that increased exposure to high spec assets for Jackups and Floaters.
We have seen a couple of asset sales in this first quarter that have continued to execute on our stated strategy of decreasing our exposure to commodity class assets.
We’re going to continue to do that.
We will look at one by one asset transactions and we’ll look at packages of assets if we can put all like that together.
And if we’re successful and I think we would be if we’re successful in executing on this strategy I really like what would be.
I saw that you have a very strong modern core.
My question was more if you look at the average please you’ll have a nice profile and average age profile which will be very different to say some of the more recent entrance into the market.
Do you see any benefit in may be doing what you did with the TODCO and separating Transocean into two units?  Well you have to bare in mind that the TODCO transaction was a geographic transaction what that did is it got us out of the shallow water Gulf of Mexico market.
And we’re not in that market today so we might consider disposing the package of low spec assets similar to the deal we did with TODCO.
But the end result of that deal would not be to get us out of the Jackup market.
I intend to stay in the Jackup market and remain competitive that’s why we’ve got the three new build constructions projects going on today.
And I think that makes a lot of sense but my question was whether you’ll you’d see (inaudible) which has been the older assets to shareholders and give them may be an opportunity to participate in the tail end of the bid? Yes its one of the alternatives we’re considering.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Scott Gruber with Bernstein.
Yes good morning.
The internal equipment review and upgrade program appears just there’s so many key to improving revenue efficiency number.
I assume this program that you’re executing today which was started mid point of last year was an enhancement of your legacy review process.
I think you said too the timing of the step up of risk is just in reaction to the drop in revenue efficiency or has there also been a marked increase in the equipment performance standards of clients and if so does this in your reflect the new rigs that have come into the market over the past few years?  I don’t think it’s necessary the reflection of the new rig.
I think that’s an interesting question.
We started down the path in challenging ourselves on our revenue efficiency a year and a half ago and in response to some trends we saw as we started to deliver our Ultra-Deepwater new builds we recognized that the conventional component of our deepwater fleet.
The performance there started to deteriorate.
So we stepped up our gain initially in response to that.
I think the more stringent industry expectations are more our reflection of the post Macondo world we all operate in rather than necessarily a result of the new equipment that come into the marketplace.
Okay that makes sense.
And then during this enhanced review process do you expect your maintenance CapEx here to rise materially.
I think it’s just made around $650 million today? Yeah not materially no.
We suffer a little bit in 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico fleet in terms of an increase in capital spending so that’s because we had to bring significant number of rigs to a new standard almost immediately.
So on the Gulf of Mexico fleet in 2010 I think we spent an incremental $25 million over what we had anticipated.
I don’t see having that kind of an impact over the global fleet because we’ll able to do it kind of more on our own timeframe rather than the acute timeframe constraints we are under in the Gulf of Mexico in response to increased regulatory requirements.
And does the incremental cost spent virtually over at this point and is that $650 million figure fair for this year in terms of maintenance?  Scott this is Ricardo.
We kept our capital expenditure guidance unchanged for this year and it takes into account any incremental expenditures associated with the up price that Steven was discussing.
Okay excellent.
Thank you.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
And next we’ll hear from Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Yes thank you.
Steven I just want to go with the projection for the out of service retirement in the second half of the year which is quite low and of course the first and second quarter got revised upward very substantially from what you estimated at the beginning of the year.
For good reasons it sounds like for good reasons and bad reasons and reactivation of rigs of course being the good reason but what’s the possibility that your current estimates for the third and fourth quarter meaningfully increase either for good or bad reasons? Robin hello this is Ricardo.
I’ll attempt to answer your question there.
I think this is a good one.
And the best way of expanding it is to give you an insight into the methodology that we apply in determining whether or not to include a shipyard in our out-of-service time a project in our out-of-service time data that we reflect in our fleet status report.
Essentially we have to have a very high degree of confidence that that shipyard is going to be executed upon and often that’s driven by the renewal or the confirmation of a contract.
In exceptional cases we make a commitment to take a rig into shipyard even without the necessary contract coverage and you can detect those items by reviewing the fleet status report.
But in general we don’t reflect shipyard that we are still considering whether or not to execute upon.
As a result of this approach there is a tendency all the time for shipyard out-of-service periods to increase in the out of quarters that we display on our (inaudible).
Right.
Again I guess especially at a time when you are reactivating idle rigs.
That is correct Robin.
So that clearly reactivation would be driven by contracting opportunities and we have to have a high degree of confidence that those opportunities will crystallize before we commit to the shipyard.
This one is required.
Okay.
Then my other question was on Brazil.
Could you update us on the statutory of the 3 000 meter? I understand that was not a tender but kind of a market inquiry and you had previously offered this Sedco Energy and express under the 1 500 meter tender.
But what is your expectation on the timing of the 3 000 meter?  Really here it could be today or it could be next week to have a weekly board meeting to a previous type of thing.
The 3 000 meter was a direct negotiation type tendering process to where it’s not their formal protocol.
The 1 500 meter was the formal protocol.
So it’s an opportunity in the expression of interest to be able to be a bit more flexible.
The 1 500 meter protocol requires that you comply 100%.
And with our two rigs we knew that we were not going to be compliant because of being able to get through one-way items.
We couldn’t deliver the rig in the timeframe but we wanted to participate anyway and show our interest in Petrobras.
We expect to be able to participate in the next tender that comes out.
And your rough estimate of the number of rigs they could hire imminently under this 3 000 meter inquiry? Well I mean I said in my notes the market is heavy on the rumor side same as three.
Okay.
So we’ll see if that’s true.
As far as putting the number out there what we believe that they could contract for this year.
In the last earnings call I said four to eight.
So I hope its more but we'll see.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Hi I just had a follow-up question on the a kind of more strategy question.
Steve it seems that it’s obviously been interesting last few years and the company is at a point now from a balance sheet perspective certainly more dry powder.
A more bullish outlook on the market and still a very disciplined approach I would say to new builds.
So I guess if we think about all that put together if you were to monetize some assets what do you do with the cash? If you are not going to be building new assets should we think about more dividends or is it acquisitions? I mean just more strategic how do we hydrate the fleet further as it relates to kind of your cash situation? So this is a kind of two questions embedded in that Collin.
One of them is how do we think about cash and whether the cash comes from asset sales or from operating cash.
We think about it as cash and we take a disciplined approach to how we make use of that cash.
Our first preference is to reinvest in our business.
So we will continue to challenge our marketing people to help us find opportunities that make sense.
And I think so far they have done an excellent job this year in identifying strategic opportunity for us to redeploy capital in our business.
We are going to remain disciplined about that.
We won’t build on specs.
We look for opportunities to add to our high spec position in routers and jack ups.
And I think we will be successful in doing that.
Second priority when we think about our cash is the quality of our balance sheet.
We want to remain in investment grade quality balance sheet.
We've done a good job at that and we are comfortable in our position particularly as it relates to have a rating agency think about us.
Third alternative then is to give it back to the shareholders.
And I think we’ve demonstrated a historical track record of discipline in doing that.
And so that’s the way we think about it going forward.
Collin we want to reinvest in our business.
We want to maintain an investment rate quality balance sheet and we want it to be shareholder friendly and how we think about our cash.
Okay.
And maybe just drilling down a little bit more.
Seems to me in your disciplined approach and not building on spec you’ve been very adamant about that.
And the market as it stands today based on [what] it seems to be that building a rig is done on specific markets not really offering a lot of contract back to new builds.
Do you anticipate that changing over the next year? And if not does that put you in a position where you’re more focused on the M&amp;A market from a new rig point of view?  Well I think if you I had this conversation six months ago Collin you probably would have told me that it would be impossible to get a contract that would support building and Jackup.
There’s just too many Jackups available too many Jackups being build on spec and yet our marketing team was successful in landing opportunities for us to do that.
Broader level we want to rule out the possibility of our talented marketing team who’ll find more opportunities for us to do that.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Then the last one for me.
It seems we got OTC going on and I think some of the scuttlebutt coming out of it is renewed vigor on the BOP restrictions and possibly that’s kind of making its way across the globe.
You have seven rams on the deepwater stack.
I guess my question is how many meaningful is that to the industry? If we think about the industry there’s a lot of old assets out there that may or may not be able to handle that capability of a BOP.
And if you see a lot of these customers have standardized on that type of BOP is there a tightening mechanism there? Is there an obsolescence factor in some of the industry’s older rigs that can’t handle the new BOP standards? Collin I hear a lot of discussion about that and I’m always a little perplexed because of the historical creativity of this industry.
If you come out and said for any rig to operate on a well it’s got to have x number of ram heated on the well head.
The industry would figure out a way to get that done with the minimal amount of incremental capital without obsolescing a $200 million hull.
So I think the industry will apply their creativity we’ve always applied in figuring out how to accomplish the increased expectations.
That’s excellent color.
Thank you on both questions.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kurt Hallead with RBC.
Hey good morning.
Good afternoon.
Or good afternoon.
I’ve said before.
Sorry.
I think we lost Kurt.
I do show him still connected.
Kurt are you still on the line? I think we lost him.
Yeah.
Maybe we should go to the next question.
Hi hi.
Sorry.
Hey sorry about that.
Hey I’m here.
I don’t (inaudible).
Welcome back.
Archives have technical difficulties here.
Let me try that again.
On the Gulf of Mexico question is how many Ultra-Deepwater rigs do you have currently running and out of the rigs that you do have running how many are at or near the contractual day rate.
As I scramble for the slide Kurt I’ll have to do this in my memory but I think well they are all on a rate and most of them are on operating rates and the standby rate which is very close to the operating rate and I think that two are on no I think that’s it.
Yeah that’s it.
How many so is it 10 or 13.
How many rigs you have on Ultra-Deepwater now actually running in the Gulf of Mexico actually operating? Kurt today there are 12 Transocean rigs in the Gulf of Mexico only one of those is a Midwater rig.
The (Inaudible) is the only Midwater rig left in the Gulf of Mexico Transocean.
Right.
The Ultra-Deepwater rig that you do have I guess I’m trying to get it how many are actually drilling right now.
How many are actually working as we speak?  One of us is going to have to get back to you with the answer to that question.
Okay thanks.
I appreciate that now.
You didn’t’ mention Terry earlier that there somewhat I couldn’t pick it up exactly how many permits did you say were waiting approval right now in the Gulf of Mexico.
36.
36 are waiting approval.
Interesting.
Okay.
And now we have heard some scuttlebutt about there being potential risk of environmental losses to hold up the permits that have actually been approved today and hold up any additional permits that have been that maybe coming down the price.
How do you guys assess that risk? Do you think it is a real risk? Do you think it is one that has low probability? Can you give us some color around what are your thoughts are?  Kurt I can only give you anecdotal color on that as we are not directly involved in the permitting process.
We support our customers in their attempts to secure permit.
So all I can tell you and maybe Terry can add to my comments all I can tell you is what the customers tell me which is they anticipate that there will be some environmental challenges to the permitting process going forward.
But they don’t consider it to be detrimental to their long-term business model in the Gulf of Mexico.
They think it might introduce some incremental administrative burden and some incremental frustration but not a significant challenge to their long-term business.
Okay.
I agree with that Steven.
If we look at the 2011 and the customer base and the progress that they have queued up they are still comfortable that they are going to be able to build continuous work to get through 2011 and that maybe the neo normal or at least this is what we hear from the customers.
We’ll have a neo normal by the end of the year so that there is a normal cycle that they are going through.
But right now they seem optimistic and we even received a permit for our older mid-water fleet I mean our older mid-water floater Amaron.
So we’re heading back to work with that one which we are really encouraged about that.
Okay.
I appreciate that color.
Now you had mentioned earlier too that on the revenue efficiency front there are some bottlenecks or at least I infer from your commentary there are some bottlenecks at the vendor level as you are kind of working through your certification processes.
What do you see from a timing standpoint? How long will it take to work through these bottlenecks? When do you think you’ll have all these certifications done and these rates ready to get back to work? Okay Chris its interesting.
One of our sub sea-equipment vendors told us than in the last nine months they have been presented with more work than they had conducted in the previous five years.
So these guys are completely overwhelmed with the surge in activity.
So we have taken the step of putting some transaction personnel in their shops to help them do simple tasks like demand planing and quality control on our equipment before it leaves their shop.
We feel a lot better about their ability to support us given the assistance we are providing.
Hopefully we are getting to a point where they have ramped up their resources.
We are providing whatever assistance we can and we’ll see this the bottleneck that we have been experiencing over the last year.
We’ll see it start to wind down hopefully over the next six seven seven eight months.
Operator we have time for two more questions.
Absolutely.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next we’ll hear from Lee Cooperman with Omega Advisors.
Thank you very much.
I'm a little confused.
I would appreciate.
Good morning to you and thank you for taking the question.
I'm a little confused about the dividend in a sense and I think it is kind of important.
A $3 dividend were yielding over 4% which is more than twice the yield of the S&amp;P 500 more than any energy-related company I know of today.
And I am just trying to figure out who is trying to get their beak into our business and holding us back? What are the different things that are going to determine the outcome here? And how comfortable are you that this dividend will be paid in May and be paid quarterly as you anticipate? I would just like to understand the issues.
I'm a little confused.
So what happened here Lee is the Swiss voters voted on a referendum in 2008 that changed the tax laws in Switzerland to make dividends out of APIC three years Swiss withholding tax.
So that vote took place back in 2008.
Here in the first few months of 2011 the Swiss authority the tax authorities have come out and made noises about how that tax law change is going to have an effect on Swiss tax revenues.
So you have a reaction done to that kind of commentary coming out of the Swiss tax authority.
It’s a general reaction.
It has nothing to do specifically with Transocean.
We’re not the only company that is making use of this change in Swiss tax laws; there are a number of companies that are pursuing the same path work or so.
Are they looking then to tax dividends paid by the company to their shareholders?   Well what the initial debate has centered around is the possibility of reinstating the withholding tax on dividends out of APIC.
That’s one alternative that has been debated in the parliament.
Okay.
So what form that debate ultimately takes whether it actually ultimately results in any change to the laws it’s pure speculation at this point.
All right if that happens do you have recourse of leaving their tax jurisdiction or that’s not practical?  If things got too painful for us that’s certainly something we would consider.
But I’d tell you today we’re a long way from that.
So what are the other considerations in paying a dividend? In other words they are going not going to stop you from paying a dividend they would just be withholding on a dividend?  That’s correct.
That’s the only impact that we would have is to reinstate the 35% Swiss withholding tax.
Okay.
Are there any other issues then surrounding the dividend?   Shareholder approval on the issue but we’re confident that the shareholders will support us in that resolution.
Well they did last year didn't they?  Yes.
They did.
So then when the shareholders vote then you will have a dividend declaration date for the next date like every other company has? Yes.
Exactly.
Okay thank you for clarifying that.
I appreciate it.
And I assume the dividend was set at a level that you feel constable that it was sustainable going forward based upon your expectation of future earnings.
Yes.
When we engaged our Board in the conversations over the last couple of years as we’ve talked about returning cash we’ve looked at a number of scenarios and obviously since Macondo we’ve had the factor Macondo into that scenario planning as well.
But that's the way we want to think about it is a dividend that we can sustain going forward.
Thank you very much.
Good luck.
I appreciate your answers.
Thanks Barry.
Thanks very much.
I guess two questions actually.
One on the vendor constraint topic again.
I think you made it clear earlier that you have sort of accelerated some of your shipyard projects.
I guess I am -- did you kind of make your vendors suffer a bit greater capacity constraints by accelerating your program?  The only area where we really accelerated shipyards is in the Gulf of Mexico and that was in the thoughts to ongoing conversations with our customers about how to mitigate the impacts of the moratorium and slow release of permits.
Okay.
And so the rigs would have had to go through BOP recertification anyway.
We just chose to do the SPS related work especially our survey related in addition to the BOP recertification.
So we didn't accelerate BOP recertification that was a function of NPL-05.
Sure.
And we had nothing to do with that.
So we were constrained by NPL-05.
We just chose to do some other work in addition to the BOP recertification.
Presumably your competitors did much the same sort of thing.
Is that part of the reason you've got this confidence that over the next six to nine months the bottlenecks are going to relieve because obviously the Gulf of Mexico stuff is a bit kind of one-time?  Yes.
I think we are in a temporary situation where people have scrambled to respond to either regulatory requirements in the case of Gulf of Mexico or customer requirements outside the Gulf of Mexico that have overwhelmed the inability of some of the equipment vendors to respond.
Okay.
I think it is a temporary situation as we work through this over the next six or nine months.
Okay.
My other question has to do with the reactivation.
You kind of gave us on the – both the floaters and Jackups sort of deferred deferred deferred breakdown but based on couple of contracts that you’ve entered into recently it seems that you are willing to go into a reactivation commitment with a contract that’s something less than a full payout correct?  Yes I rely on our marketing people to give me an assessment of their ability to find follow-on work.
So it’s a well-informed decision but it’s not a dogmatic requirement that we return the entire 100% of the reactivation cost with the first contract.
Okay.
So there is no kind of simple rule that you could share with us.
I mean with the newbuild it seems you’re pretty clear that you’re not going to make a newbuild commitment obviously a much greater capital commitments in reactivation.
You’re not going to make a newbuild commitment without some very high percentage contract payout on the initial term.
Is there anything analogous that you can share with us in regards to your decision to reactivate?  Not anything that is as crisply articulated as the 80% simple payback we look for an ultra-deepwater floater in newbuild project.
There isn’t anything that simplistic that we apply to our reactivation decision.
Okay.
All right great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you all for your interest and we will talk to you in the next quarter.
Thank you.
And that concludes our conference for today.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the second-quarter 2011 results call for Transocean Limited.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Liya.
Good morning and welcome to Transocean’s second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our second quarter’s financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company’s Web site at deepwater.com.
We’ve also posted a file containing four charts that may be referenced during this morning’s call.
That file can be found on the company’s Web site by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint Charts.
The charts include average contracts at dayrates by rig type out of service rig months operating and maintenance cost trends free cash flow from backlog and debt maturities.
The Quarterly Toolkit also has four additional financial tables for your convenience covering first revenue efficiency then other revenue details daily operating and maintenance costs by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me this morning are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Ricardo Rosa Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Vice President Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I’d like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results and the prospects for the contract drilling business.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it’s inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand and operational and other risks which are described in the company’s most recent most Form 10-K and other filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of the development which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Reg G.
As I indicated earlier you will find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our Web site at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate on this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you for your time.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
At the outset I’d like to take a second to officially welcome Thad who has taken over the Investor Relations function.
Thad brings with him a wealth of experience while working on the sales side and he is a former Transocean employee who we’re excited to have back on the team.
He’ll beginning to know many of you going forward.
Now on to our results our reported second quarter earnings were $0.48 per diluted share.
After adjusting for discontinued operations and the other items noted in our press release adjusted diluted earnings per share would have been $0.59 which does not take into account the impact of Macondo related items.
This compared to $0.53 for the first quarter of 2011.
Adjusted earnings per share were up $0.06 sequentially as increased revenues more than offset increased costs and a higher annual effective tax rate.
Ricardo will walk you through the details of our financial results shortly followed by Terry who’ll provide some color on the market.
First though I want to make a few comments.
During the second quarter we saw continued improvement in the underlying fundamentals of our business as strong commodity prices supported continued improvements in demand throughout the market.
We built on the first quarter’s strong contracting performance with an additional $1.5 billion in new contracts between our April and July Fleet Status Reports.
We’re encouraged by contract awards and extensions across Transocean’s entire fleet and I expect recent discoveries offshore Ghana Brazil Vietnam and the US Gulf of Mexico will drive global drilling and demand for our rigs.
While Terry will give you more details on the worldwide market and the various asset classes shortly there’re a couple of key fixtures I’d like to highlight.
Reflective of the tightening Ultra-Deepwater market and our continuing strong operating relationship with BP.
BP has exercised their six-month option on the Discoverer Enterprise and agreed on an additional one year extension with the one year extension at a rate of $492 000 a day.
During the quarter the Key Gibraltar went back to work for Chevron in Thailand following her reactivation.
We signed a three-well contract with ONGC in India for the M.G.
Hulme and Rig 141 secured a two year contract with Gupco a BP joint venture in Egypt.
These are just a few examples of returning idle equipment back to work and further support our view of the continuing recovery in the offshore markets.
I’m also pleased to announce that during the second-quarter our revenue efficiency improved to 92.1% two percentage points higher than what we reported in the first quarter.
We have been focused on this area for several quarters now and our comprehensive improvement program is delivering measurable results.
As a reminder of the main components of the program we are focused on continually enhancing equipment reliability which involves thorough inspections by Transocean and third-party experts to understand the baseline condition of the equipment standardize maintenance plans to ensure the equipment meet Transocean’s high standards and regular testing to make certain the equipment performs as required.
As the numbers show we are seeing meaningful progress towards our objective of being back to historical levels by the end of this year.
As part of our plan to strategically position Transocean for the long-term during the quarter we also continued to make progress in our efforts to optimize the competitive make up of our fleet.
Over the last couple of months we have finalized deals to sell three Jackups and a swamp barge with other divestiture opportunities at various stages of progress.
We also exercised an option at Keppel FELS for the construction of a third Super B Class High-Spec Jackups and we’re in advanced discussions with the customer to finalize the contract for this unit.
This brings our high-spec jackup newbuild construction program to four units.
Now to an area that we’ve received a number of investor questions on the past couple of quarters.
As we have said before we remained firm in our belief that building on speculation is not good for the industry or Transocean and that excess supply will have a negative impact on dayrates and asset utilization.
In addition to the impact on the supply and demand dynamic customers have consistently voiced their desire to have rigs built to their exact specifications based on identified future work and operating environments and our preference is to build something that closely meets our customers’ needs and expectations.
Just as important as the assets being built is having the teams in place to run them and we pride ourselves on having the best people in our business.
This depth of expertise combined with our strong balance sheet will provide us the flexibility to take advantage of potential opportunities as they arise in the market.
Finally it’s important to keep in mind that we just completed a 10 rig $7 billion newbuild program that positions us well in the Ultra-Deepwater market for the long term as it gives us the world’s largest high-spec fleet and a true competitive advantage in the marketplace.
We’ll continue to look for opportunities to reinvest in our business while remaining disciplined in how we deploy our capital.
Even with our strict criteria for contract-backed newbuilds we’ve successfully built an unparallel leadership position in our business and I seen no reason why remaining discipline going forward will force us to abandon our leadership role.
In addition to our ongoing reinvestment in our business in June we made our first quarterly distribution of the approximately $1 billion annual dividend our shareholders approved at the May shareholders meeting.
Our ability to continue to invest in our business and return excess cash to our shareholders reflects our long-held disciplined approach to capital deployment underpinned by strengthening market fundamentals.
Before turning the call over to Ricardo I do want to make some brief comments on Macondo.
First in early June we filed a response to the Coast Guard’s preliminary report.
That preliminary report was critical of all parties involved with the Macondo well including Transocean.
In our response we disputed four key assertions made by the US Coast Guard.
Specifically we concluded the following; ignition did not result from poorly maintained equipment.
The BOP was properly maintained.
The engines on the rig did not fail to shut down upon detection of gas and the general alarm did not fail to operate automatically.
We hope that the US Coast Guard will take our recommendations which were supported by the findings of our internal investigation into account for their final report.
Our full response to the Coast Guard can be found on our Web site.
Second on June 22 we released our internal investigation report which confirmed that the Macondo incident was the result of a succession of interrelated well design and construction decisions that comprised the integrity of the well and compounded the risk of its failure.
I’d like to extend my sincere thanks to everyone who contributed to the preparation and delivery of this report.
Finally we continue to believe that through a legally binding contract with Transocean BP agreed to assume full responsibility for the costs and liability of any pollution contamination and environmental damage caused by hydrocarbons that leaked from the Macondo well.
That contract indemnifies Transocean against all such claims.
Let me conclude by thanking the worldwide team of Transocean employees.
Our operating results are improving and we continue to make progress towards our vision of an incident-free workplace.
I appreciate your efforts and focus on safe and efficient operations.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Ricardo to take you through the numbers.
Ricardo? Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
As Steven has mentioned we reported net income of $155 million or $0.48 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2011.
Excluding the $25 million loss on impairment relating to three jackups reclassified as held for sale $13 million of net charges relating to discrete tax items and $2 million in income from discontinued operations our adjusted diluted earnings were $0.59 per share.
This represents an improvement of $0.06 per share versus adjusted earnings in the previous quarter.
Increased revenue from Ultra-Deepwater rigs led to improve its profitability this quarter and largely reflects three primary drivers First higher activity in the Gulf of Mexico with all BOP recertifications now complete the absence of special standby rates and the Deepwater Pathfinder operating throughout the quarter.
Second the commencement of operations of the newbuild Deepwater Champion at 100% efficiency in the Black Sea.
And third a 4 and 6 percentage point improvement in revenue efficiency for the Ultra-Deepwater and Deepwater rig categories respectively compared with the first quarter reflecting the impact of the initiatives that Steven discussed earlier.
32 rig month of shipyard out of service time in the quarter was three months lower than in the first quarter but remain higher than we anticipated due to extended projects impacting a number of rigs including the Deepwater Discovery combined with increased contract preparation work mainly in response to new contracts in West Africa.
Delays incurred by the original equipment manufacturers conducting BOP recertifications are having an ongoing impact.
Total operating and maintenance expenses increased $133 million compared with the first quarter including $104 million related to contract drilling due to the higher maintenance cost on several rigs combined with annual pay rises and contract preparation shipyards.
The remaining $29 million increase was due mainly to higher drilling management services activity.
The non-cash $25 million impairment loss on the three standard jackups held for sale does not signal a pattern of losses on future asset sale.
More importantly it reflects our continued efforts to execute our strategy of disposing of non-core assets.
The second quarter was also adversely impacted by an adjustment to our year-to-date annual effective tax rate to 22.6% up from 19.3%.
The adjustment reflects lower margins in certain lower tax rate and deemed profit locations due in part to out of service time in addition to increased activity in some higher tax jurisdictions.
The increased annual effective tax rate compared to the first quarter impacted diluted earnings per share by $0.05 in the second quarter.
Looking beyond the second quarter revenue efficiency in shipyard related out of service time remained critical factors in improving our profitability.
Steven has already discussed our focus on improving revenue efficiency.
So I will provide some color on future shipyard activity.
As you’ll remember in previous calls I provided some directional guidance on higher anticipated out of service base for certain rig categories including our expectation that the relative mix of out of service time would be more heavily weighted toward our Ultra-Deepwater floaters due to the timing of the 10-year special periodic surveys required by several units.
These and other factors have carried through multiple reporting periods including the second quarter.
In addition to the Special Periodic Survey work we have completed a number of life enhancements conducted BOP related work imposed by NTL-05 and other BOP project as well as rising river holes trust to change out and contract preparation to meet customers’ specifications.
Furthermore as you know we are coming through an exceptional period in which we have felt the impact of a lingering post-Macondo environment driving out-of-service timing costs much of which relate to the Ultra-Deepwater category.
We believe that shipyard work required by our Ultra-Deepwater rig will be reduced in the second half and the focus of our efforts will be more on certain deepwater and midwater units.
Our Web site Chart No.
2 reflects the projected out-of-service time reported in our last Fleet Status Report at July 13th and highlights that we are expecting out-of-service time to decrease in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.
These projections are directionally correct but need to be adjusted for approximately three months of on-through repairs on the Marianas following the unexpected anchor-handling incident in Ghana as well as shipyard expansions totaling approximately five months which impact certain high-specification floaters and will be spread across third and fourth quarters.
The projections do not include any rig reactivations which may result from new contract awards.
Looking into 2012 we currently expect revenue losses from out-of-service days to be lower when compared to 2011 as the mix of Special Periodic Surveys and major shipyards favor non-Ultra-Deepwater rig.
However assuming demand continues to strengthen the number of reactivations is expected to increase and may include certain midwater and deepwater units with higher reactivation costs in jackups.
As a result we believe total shipyard expenditures are unlikely to decline in 2012.
I now would like to provide you with some updates to our cost guidance for the remainder of 2011.
We’re now projecting our operating and maintenance expenses to increase from the upper end of the range of $5.4 billion to $5.7 billion to the range of $5.6 billion to $5.8 billion due mainly to the combined impact of first the cost of previously mentioned shipyard expansion and the planned repair of the Marianas; second wage increases and other inflationary pressures on our in-service rig operating costs in certain countries including Brazil Angola and United Kingdom.
Included in the operating and maintenance expense for the second quarter is $26 million in Macondo well related costs.
We’re prudently revising our 2011 guidance for these costs from $100 million to $135 million in view of the uncertainties surrounding the outcome of the Interpleader filed our excess liability underwriters with a multi-district litigation.
This increase is included in the revised total year range I have just provided of $5.6 billion to $5.8 billion.
Moving down the statement of operations we expect the range of net interest expense to be between $550 million and $570 million compared to the previous guidance of $570 million to $590 million mainly due to recent measures to rebalance the mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Our annual effective tax rate is expected to be in the range of 21% to 23% up 2 percentage points from our previous guidance of 19% to 21% for the reasons I articulated earlier.
Capital expenditures are projected to remain unchanged at approximately $1.1 billion.
Cash flow generated by operations in the quarter was $340 million adversely impacted by a $230 million net increase in working capital.
We expect operating cash flow to improve in the second half of this year with fewer out-of-service days and improving efficiency.
Our cash flow will also benefit from the proceeds of our non-core asset disposals.
Our liquidity remains strong with the consolidated cash balance of $3.4 billion and an undrawn $2 billion revolving credit facility and we continue to pay down our debt obligations in line with our long-term balance sheet strategy.
With that I will hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Ricardo and hello to everyone.
Before I get started I’d like to say that if we had delayed the call by just an hour or so we may have had even more positive news to report.
Because as of today we’ve already received two contracts so it’s been a high level of activity for sure.
I’d also like to say that the contract backlog that I’m going to report is from the period of January 1 through today.
So with that I’d like to make a few general comments.
2011 has been an exciting year thus far with continued successes for Transocean in contracting our worldwide fleet.
Year-to-date we’ve executed over 4.5 billion of contracts with 2 billion executed since the last earnings call.
From ongoing discussions with our customers we expect this positive trend to continue for the remainder of the year.
Tendering and contracting activity in the worldwide Ultra-Deepwater market has been very strong and more than a dozen fixtures in the last quarter.
Petrobras is again in the market looking to fulfill its long-term demand and coupled with the return of the US Gulf of Mexico to a somewhat normal activity level has led to a substantial firming up of this market segment with less than a handful of units being available globally through the end of 2011.
Contracting activity in the deepwater market has picked up slightly from first quarter level and while there is continued rig availability especially more units we believe that as the remaining Ultra-Deepwater capacity is committed utilization and rate should further improve in this segment.
Midwater activity increased during the second quarter with multiple fixtures especially in the U.K.
and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
Based on the outstanding tenders and inquiries received we believe this trend should continue not only in the North Sea but also in India and Southeast Asia.
Saudi Aramco and Pemex continue to the lead the charge in tendering and contracting activity in the premium and standard jackup market segment.
This combined with strong demand in Southeast Asia and the North Sea has led to unfulfilled requirements for certain programs helping to firm out dayrates and creating new opportunities for standard units which could lead to reactivation of some of our cold stacked units.
Let’s now look at the various market segments beginning with the Ultra-Deepwater market.
The Gulf of Mexico Brazil and West Africa continue to be at the forefront of Ultra-Deepwater activity.
In the last few months more than a dozen fixtures have been reported with dayrates generally ranging from 450 000 to 500 000.
Tendering activity has risen sharply with 26 tenders and inquiries currently outstanding.
After securing three Ultra-Deepwater units in previous tender exercises Petrobras has issued another three tenders.
One for 21 Ultra-Deepwater units to be built in Brazil for pre-sell development a second tender for a 1 200 meter unit and a third tender for a 1 500 meter units.
We expect Petrobras to take up to four units from the international fleet for these programs.
We’re also pleased to see an improving view of future opportunities in the US Gulf of Mexico as evidenced by our ability to close the fixture on the enterprise as Steven mentioned earlier.
Demonstrating the continued streams of the West Africa Ultra-Deepwater market we recently executed a contract on the Sedco Energy for two years at 440 000 a day in Ghana.
We’re very bullish on Ultra-Deepwater market and we are now in discussions for opportunities in late 2012 and beyond.
Turning to the deepwater market contracting activity remains wide.
However we expect improving demand in the second half of 2011 with Brazil West Africa and Australia providing opportunities for our available deepwater fleet.
As a reflection of the low level of tendering in deepwater we secured a midwater opportunity for the M.G.
Hulme which as you know is a deepwater unit in India for three wells approximately one year of work at $260 000 a day.
Additionally we have just extended the Discoverer Seven Seas for a 173 days at 295K a day bridging the gap until the upcoming tendering opportunity in India.
Turning our attention to the worldwide midwater floater market the tendering and contracting activity has continued at a brisk pace throughout the second quarter.
We’re seeing high tendering activity in the North Sea India and South East Asia.
There is limited availability in the U.K.
and Norway and demand continues to outpace supply.
After discussions with several customers for our only available harsh environment semi in Norway in 2012 we contracted the Transocean winter for one year at $455 000 a day.
Additionally since our last call we’ve been able to secure the following significant fixtures the Transocean prospect 18 months at 245 000 a day in the U.K.
and this is the first long-term fixture since 2008.
Transocean Arctic four wells that are approximately 240 days at 395K in Norway; Sedco 714 one year at $255 a day in the U.K.; Transocean Amirante five wells approximately 300 days at 247K in Egypt; Actinia two wells are approximately 100 days at 190K in Malaysia.
We’re also in advanced discussions on multiple midwater units with our customers in the U.K.
West Africa Asia and Australia and expect to close on these prospects shortly.
This confirms our belief that the midwater market tendering type will continue to be strong over the remainder of 2011.
Moving to the jackup market as we discussed last quarter the contracting pace in this segment especially the premium market has significantly picked up.
This has not only exerted upward pressure on the dayrate for premium equipment but it has also provided contracting opportunities for the standard jackups.
This positive development is underscored by us being able to secure a significant number of contracts across our jackup fleet adding $684 million in contract extensions during the quarter.
This reflects a total of five rigs returning to active duty for the second quarter 2011.
Based on ongoing discussions with our customers we’re very confident that this trend will continue and we will be able to secure additional contracts for active fleet as well as reactivate some of our stacked units under attractive commercial conditions.
In conclusion tendering contracting and overall demand activity for the first half of 2011 has exceeded our expectations and we believe that strong commodity pricing will continue to provide opportunity for all rig classes for the second half of 2011 and ‘12.
We continue to execute leading edge dayrate in all asset classes.
Additionally our year-to-date contracted backlog of $4.5 billion is representative of 19 countries with a top five countries located outside of the Golden Triangle demonstrating our ability to differentiate with the depth of global offering that meets the needs of our diverse customer base with our focus on service delivery.
Our global footprint versatile fleet portfolio and industry leading position uniquely provides us with the strong competitive advantage to further benefit in this market.
That concludes my overview in the market so I’ll turn it back to you Steven.
Thank very much.
Operator we are now ready to take some questions.
(Operator instructions) And we’ll take our first question from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning.
How are you? Good.
How are you? Thank you.
I’m doing well.
Thanks so much.
I wanted to focus initially here on the revenue efficiency factor.
So Steven you’d reference this as a primary focal point a few quarters back.
You’ve gone from I guess under 90% now to 92% a good progress.
What was the ultimate target that you think is realistically achievable? I think we do a pretty good job with our fleet status reports on our quarterly results of showing you our historical performance in revenue efficiency.
So that’s what I’ve tried to guide the analysts and the investors to think about is getting back to that historical level of efficiency.
Terry from a market standpoint sounded very upbeat you kind of tease us there with a couple of contracts.
They’ve already been signed.
Is there anything that you can expand upon on that? Just to reiterate the fact that it’s been incredibly active for us.
I mean we signed this quarter 28 contracts and that’s from our last earnings call to today.
So for us it’s been an incredibly active and just to give you a little bit of a writedown there 17 of those were jackups.
So we’ve got a lot of opportunity out there.
Customers are urgent and we think it’s very positive as we move forward into the second half of ‘11 and into ‘12.
Then I just was wondering if there is any updates that I guess the Swiss authorities were looking at potentially changing the tax rates over there and how that may impact your dividend any updates on that front? No Kurt we continue to monitor regulatory framework here in Switzerland and what’s happening in the legislature.
There hasn’t been any real movement since what we’ve been talking about over the last quarter or so.
Okay great that’s it from me thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Terry or Steven I wanted to ask you a little bit about Mexico.
You guys sit here with quite a few jackups idle internationally and Mexico has what appears to be a pretty large shortage and they are offering some term.
So the question for you would be why isn’t Transocean participating in some of the Pemex tenders? What we’re doing is we have tried to get into Mexico on a couple of occasions.
We haven’t had the right equipment available at the right time as you know it’s a very specific window to get in there.
So you have to hit a window and we haven’t had a rig that we have been able to hit that window that doesn’t attract significant penalty.
However what we’re seeing and I think it’s very interesting and we’re following closely is that they are now contacting the contractors directly saying “Look with our increased demand we’re looking for ways that we can meet our demands that we need.” So there maybe a little flexibility we’re hoping for that so that we can’t participate in that market.
It’s not that we don’t want to we do.
We very much do because we see it as an opportunity leading into deepwater market.
So we’re looking at it very hard and we hope that we’ll be able to have some success there.
You’ve touched on a key opportunity for us.
Mexico is a big market and we’re not currently present there and so we’ve spent a lot of time evaluating how to get in the Mexico and I think we have a really active and productive dialog with Pemex.
We’ve told them we want to be there and they’ve told us they want us there.
We’re just looking for the right opportunity the right vehicle to get in there.
It sounds like you may be participating going forward.
Second question Steven you know Terry just mentioned that similar leading-edge rates in the Ultra-Deepwater now pushing close to 500 just looking at your valuation relative to some of the Ultra-Deepwater peer such as Seadrill illustrates that you have a very depressed valuation.
So I was wondering if you and the Board are looking at perhaps some more optimal structures where you can capture the value of your backlog and the inherent asset value of your Ultra-Deepwater fleet.
I’m not sure what you have in mind when you talk about optimal structure.
It’s an ongoing dialog with the Board and we recognize that we think there are opportunities out there and our stock price doesn’t reflect what we think the underlying valuation of the company.
It doesn’t reflect the underlying fundamentals.
So there are things that we’re in active discussion with the Board about how to address that.
I mean could this include maybe a spin-off more of the commodity assets versus your really high-spec and frontier kind of assets? Yes I don’t want to hedge the Board in on the wide ranging discussion they are having but we’ve been pretty vocal about our desire to rationalize the Transocean fleet.
We want to be focused on high-specification drilling high-spec floating and high-spec jackups.
I think in the last couple of quarters we’ve demonstrated our efforts to execute against that strategy.
So the Board has endorsed that strategy and what we continue to discuss with the Board are the alternative means of executing that strategy most efficiently.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Ange Sedita with UBS.
Hey thanks and good morning.
I’m trying to get some of your thoughts on rig expectations for the Ultra-Deepwater markets.
Obviously we’re moving a little bit towards 500 but do you think to move to $500 000 or even beyond that we need to see both a pickup of permitting in the Gulf of Mexico and also Petrobras picking up a number of incremental rigs.
Give us your thoughts on our rates leading into the back half of the year and early next year.
Ange thanks for the question.
Good to have you on the call.
If you look at what currently is available out there to pickup in the market I think it’s about seven rigs as they finish up this year and then you’re going to have some more certainly come available in 2012.
Right now with programs out there they certainly can absorb that fleet it’s going to depend on customer urgency.
Now I believe that we’re about to see a $500 000 fixture in the next couple of weeks and I think it’s imminent because I believe that few of our customers need to have some of their programs drilled in a timely manner.
I also believe that there is certainly some demand that needs to be fulfilled in the US Gulf of Mexico and you can certainly see that with as we look at the major discovery that happens in the Gulf of Mexico with ExxonMobil in Hadrian.
That was with a form out rig.
So you’ve got some really really positive news there that certainly the US Gulf of Mexico has great opportunity for the customer base and they are slowly becoming more familiar with the process to get their permits through and I think it’s just going to take a little bit of time and it won’t be the old normal but it will be a new normal and that there is lot of opportunities so I think that it’s looking very positive.
And then as a follow-up to that are you concerned by the slowing of permitting in the Gulf of Mexico as of late? Is there any risk that rigs that are working today could become idle if we don’t see a pickup in permits? Then second you also mentioned reactivating some cold stacked rigs.
Is that focused on jackups as well as floaters? I would assume that’s more of 2012 event as far as large quantity of rigs and specific regions? To answer the first question I can only speak from our customers base and our conversations that we have with our customers and they are confident that we can work through 2011 and the rigs that we currently have on full standby are those that are waiting to go back to work with some permit.
So from our perspective the customers are saying that they are going to be able to get some permits.
And then your second question was about the cold stacked fleet.
We’re looking at opportunity things are picking up and we can see that in the Deepwater fleet that there is some opportunity out there and some long-term opportunity.
So we’re looking at some growth areas where we feel like we can reactivate.
And then into jackups we’ve got some opportunities where are some jackups so we can also reactivate.
So as we said things are really picking up it’s obviously profitable reactivation and we’re very encouraged.
All right thanks Terry.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Hi good morning guys.
Hello Collin.
So I wanted to follow-up on the cost side.
The addendum that you have which is very helpful by the way it looks like daily operating cost like if I just look at high-spec floaters and midwater floaters went up in the quarter.
I guess I’m trying to understand that a little bit does that have to do with labor or is it some of this downtime or kind of the revenue efficiency stuff showing up in the cost line too? Maybe help understand that a little bit more.
This is Ricardo.
As far as the high-specification floaters are concerned I am assuming you’re looking at the schedule on daily operating and maintenance costs.
What it is is a combination of the higher maintenance costs that we saw in the last quarter across the fleet has affected several rigs and is attributable largely to the timing of certain maintenance projects that takes place whiles the rigs are active and there tends to be an uptick in general in the second quarter as compared to the first.
In addition to that what you have is a slight change in rig mix because we are seeing now a greater wake in favor of the Ultra-Deepwater units that are now all active with the newbuilds all commissioned and working.
Of course we have a reduction in the active rig count of the lower-spec deepwater assets.
There are two certain cost pressures that we are seeing and that we had warned our investors about that they would take place in the course of the year and they relate very much to the wage pressures that I highlighted in my prepared comments and that are beginning to flow through our costs effective the second quarter.
I think the question of maintenance and the pressure of wage increases compounded as well with the weak dollar and the exchange rate effect there is being reflected in the increased average daily operating costs for both rig categories.
Just to follow-up it looks like they went up in every rig category of jackups midwater and the floater side or the high-spec side.
Does your new cost guidance assume that those are flat for the balance of the year or are we assuming in that cost guidance that those daily operating costs kind of come back down? In others words is this a one-time issue or is that the new normal in your cost guidance? I have dictated that it’s the new normal.
What you will see however is an uptick compared to the costs that we incurred in the first quarter.
Our cost guidance for the second half of the year takes into account the increased expenses associated with Macondo as I highlighted in my comments and also includes continued relatively high levels of shipyard expenses and increased activity from drilling management services.
So I would say that the in-service cost will have a slight uptick yes but it wouldn’t be significant.
And then the last one for me I want to stay kind of on the income statement.
This might be somewhat of a dumb question but when you reactivate a rig and maybe it cost $20 million for a jackup or $50 million for a floater I’m not sure how much it would be does that cost show up on the operating expense side in the income statement or is that a capital cost that flows through the balance sheet? We have three accounting treatments with respect to the reactivation cost of the rig and it depends on the nature of the costs incurred.
We have upgrade costs where we’re actually improving the specifications of the rig those tend to be capitalized.
We have costs that are specifically attributable to the contract that we’re preparing the rig for and those we refer to as contract preparation costs and they will be deferred over the life of the contract.
Then there is that what I’ve described as catch up maintenance getting the rig ready to go back to work and be accepted by the customer and that will be treated as expense.
Right.
So just kind of setting aside that like in the event that you order reactivate handful of rigs.
It’s now like will we see $115 million or $100 million or like a big spike in operating expenses at a quarter or would it be a little bit more muted as they would be allocated into the various buckets? It’s difficult to give you any firm guidance on that because it really depends on the mix of expense whether it’s upgrade as opposed to maintenance or contract breadth [ph].
What I would say is that there is a tendency when you reactivate a rig to have upfront expenses.
Okay that’s it from me thanks so much guys.
All right Collin.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Thank you.
Steven I wanted to ask you about this issue that’s come up regarding this additional out of service time.
How forcefully can you push your customers in terms of sharing the costs of these enhanced safety upgrades and equipment efficiency standards that we see applying across the board in the case of existing contracts which may not have provisions for this but on new contracts as well? Yes I think that’s an excellent question Robin and it really boils down to a case by case basis.
It depends on the negotiating dynamic.
It depends on what the driver is for the enhancement.
So if we’re operating under an existing contract and the regulator changes regulations and we have a change in regulations pause in the contract we’ve been in a very good position to get our customers to help bear the cost of that.
If it’s a new contract and the customer sets that expectation upfront and we know it going into the negotiations we might not get it covered in the way of a lump-sum reimbursement but we might get it built into the dayrate and so it just really depends on number one what the driver is for those enhancements and number two are we talking about a new contract or an existing contract where is the negotiating dynamics who’s got the leverage it’s difficult to give you a very comprehensive crisp one size that’s how I’ll answer.
Because you cited some cases where an OEM manufacturer couldn’t recertify and do the work on the BOP required so I guess in those cases where you go to zero dayrate then it’s kind of on your dime as opposed to the customer in most case? There are circumstances were in order for us to put the rig to work we’ve got to incur some incremental expenditures that we weren’t planning on.
One other question then on your decision to exercise the option to build a third jackup at Keppel FELS is there another opportunity with Chevron like you did with the first two? Or how did you arrive at the decision to exercise that option? Are there any more options related to jackups at KFELS? On the first part of your question Rob and I’ll give you two perspectives.
Knowing how we feel about building on spec you can take some comfort in the fact that there was a very well developed opportunity there.
The other thing you ought to know about us is that we don’t talk about a contract until it’s done dusted and signed.
So there is an opportunity there and once we get the contracts signed we will happy to alert all of you to it.
There are additional options available at Keppel FELS and as those option dates approach we’ll take into consideration just how comfortable we are we’d be able to execute a contract.
Okay all right thank you Steven.
Our next question comes from Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Good afternoon.
Hi Joe.
Guys I apologize if I missed this.
But Ricardo did you give DD&amp;A and G&amp;A guidance for the back half? No I didn’t Joe.
Would you care to? No the guidance remains the same as it’s given at the beginning of the year.
It remains unchanged and that’s my comment on it.
Fair enough.
When I think about the maintenance work and quality assurance work that’s been going on for the last several months for the fleet.
Are there any takeaways with regards to both what you are seeing in the third-party search in the BOPs and what you are seeing in other areas of repair and maintenance? Are there any general trends or observations you can make? That’s an interesting question Joe.
I think the observation I would make is that the more we can do to help our vendors plan for work and manage work and then deliver work the better off we are.
So in terms of bringing our vendors into our discussions about asset management and fleet planning and our anticipated schedules for major maintenance work and overhauls; the more they know about that the better off they are in terms of allowing for and preparing for their own resource needs.
Once our equipment gets into their shop the more we can do to help them expedite work to make sure that things remain on tract within their work planning streams the better off we are.
If we’ve got people at the back end of their shop when the vendor tells us that a particular piece of equipment is ready to go; if our people have been there and been active participants in the factory acceptance testing then we are that much more confident that when the piece of kit arrives on our rig it really is ready to go.
So that’s a key takeaway I would give you the more we can do to help our vendors plan for execute and deliver quality work the better off we are.
Then this last question here is a little bit of Kentucky vintage but with regards to the tender pipeline you’re seeing today obviously it’s strengthened it’s pretty active.
The market obviously is rolling over here.
I think we’re $90 in crude now.
What price would you anticipate your customers begin backing off tendering activity? Is it $85? Is it $80? Are we there yet? Do you have any opinions on that? I think we probably would have to ask our customers that question.
As far as an opinion we started seeing this increase in activity when they gained confidence in $8 barrel mark.
Once they had a full year of it then the demand started coming out.
So I think it was a confidence boost.
So each customer has a different return that he is looking for and they are all very dependent upon the parts of the world that they’re working as you know.
So I think that the comfort level was $80 for most of them and that’s when we start seeing the demand.
Then Terry this last question is for you.
The Seven Seas you got re-signed for little bit any update on the equipment you had in West Africa that rolled off the Sedneth from 140 to 135? They haven’t rolled off they are still working.
So as of now I mean the 135 is under contract and have been on a five-month contract for a while I don’t have the paper in front of me.
The 140 we are in the process of moving to shipyard and we’re very optimistic of follow-on work and we really can’t talk about it right now but we are optimistic about it.
I’m sorry the 135 rolls off at the end of the month okay.
Yes.
Just to give you a little bit more color there are numerous opportunities out there that we have both of those rigs bid too.
Okay that’s it from me thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Joe.
Our next question comes from Douglas Clifford with Omega Advisors.
Hi good morning.
Steven could you comment on the sustainability of your dividend and how do you look at it as a variable dividend or something that the Board and management place [ph] will be maintained for an extended period? Yes when we went into the discussions about return of cash to our shareholders Doug we wanted to make sure that whatever we did we could stand behind as a sustaining activity going forward.
So when we looked at that $1 billion a year distribution last year pre-Macondo we put it in the context of a wide variety of scenarios and we felt comfortable that it was sustainable under that variety of scenarios.
Now obviously Macondo introduced the regulatory wrinkle here in Switzerland with respect to the commercial registrars blocking our ability to execute the distribution in the form of a par value reduction.
We opted for a different vehicle this year in form of the dividend as additional paid-in capital that doesn’t have any Swiss regulatory involvement.
So we think that’s a vehicle that we can avail ourselves of even in the context of Macondo and we think that under a variety of scenarios it’s a sustainable dividend.
Now that doesn’t remove the discussion from the Boardroom and what the Board will look at as they prepare for making that recommendation on an annual basis to the shareholders is what’s our outlook for the business what are our prospects for reinvestment in our business what does the debt portfolio look like but as we have prepared scenarios for the Board in the context of those discussions Board’s been comfortable with thinking about the $1 billion dividend as they’re recurring sustainable dividend.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker with BOA.
Thanks.
Terry you mentioned the potential for Petrobras to pickup four rigs out of the 1 200 and 1 500 meter tenders.
How much of that do you view as incremental demand versus high grading of some of the midwater rigs? What’s the timing of announcements? Our understanding is that the bids were due yesterday.
They actually extended the tender for a couple of weeks and I think that it’s incremental they need the rigs.
I guess you are alluding to the release as the diamond rigs thinking that that maybe actually actual replacement of some of the other midwater fleets.
But I think that what these units are they are going to be used on the sub-salt wells that they have and that we do believe it’s incremental demand and we also believe that they are going to continue to take more Ultra-Deepwater rigs as their demand arises and I know they’ve just come out with a five-year plan and that’s one of the footnotes is that we will reassess our demands as the situation arises.
So we are optimistic that they will continue to pull more rigs in.
Thanks.
And then Steven do you see the market moving in a way that’s going to require upgrades of four ram BOPs or potentially adding a second BOP to existing rigs to meet new equipment standards or just reduce downtime? I think the question about second BOPs to reduce non-productive time is an interesting.
One in fact Chevron made that decision on the newbuilds that we recently built for them.
The turnaround time for between wells maintenance on the BOPs was becoming the critical path item when you move a dual activity rig from one location to the next.
So it’s possible that our customers could make that kind of a commercial evaluation and decide that it makes sense for them to incur the upfront cost of the capital required to have a second BOP on the rig.
The challenge is do you always have a hole or a rig shape that can accommodate a full second BOP.
So I’m not sure that in every case that’s a practical technical solution just because of the constraints of deck load and deck space on some of the older equipment.
Question about four ram stacks most of the equipment today is four ram and the challenge becomes how you outfit those four rams.
If the customer or the regulator wants to increase the number of shear rams contained in the stack then you’ve got to worry about whether or not you’ve got enough ram cavities available to have the flexibility and redundancy you’d want in normal pipe rams.
It’s not just an ongoing conversation we have with our customers our customers play an integral role at the outset of every contract and almost at the outset of every well making sure that the BOP is kitted out the way they want to kit it out.
Operator we are approaching an hour.
We’d like to have questions from two more callers please.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert MacKenzie with FBR &amp; Company.
Question for you I guess shifting away from operations per se again what can you tell us if anything about where you stand vis-à-vis settling any kind of issues with BP and/or the government recognize your contract indemnifies we’ve seen some of the other parties settle or some payments? Is that something you guys are actively exploring at this point and where would that stand? I don’t want to be too public about the nature of those discussions.
I’ll tell you that there is an ongoing dialog with BP.
I think we have a responsibility as a key vendor to BP and we certainly feel an obligation to them as one of our largest customers to have an ongoing dialog.
We talk about the current operations around the world that we’re conducting with BP and we talk about Macondo.
I don’t want to say too much about exactly what we talk about when we talk about Macondo.
Moving onto another issue permitting in the US Gulf the pace as we see it is less than half of what it would take to sustain 30 plus rigs in the US Gulf.
What are you hearing from your customers and/or the regulators if you’re speaking to them directly about whether that’s going to change anytime soon? Well there has been some interesting articles written about that lately and the fact that you know there will be some more pressure put on the regulators in order to speed up the process because quite frankly we need the jobs we need the revenues and now is the time to do that.
I think the customers going through the process of understanding what’s required in order to get their permits and again I answered this a little bit earlier and what our customers are saying is that they believe they will have the permit to keep our rigs working through the end of this year.
Then we also have some of our other rigs that are on standby that are with BP and they are also working to get their permit.
So we don’t hear a lot of the struggle that we understand some of our other peer groups are saying that they are having with their customers.
So our customer base is getting I think  a bit more comfortable with the process.
No I don’t think it’s going to speed up overnight but I think that as we move along this path that it will become a more efficient process.
Another regulatory question if I may since we’re at the end.
What have you heard about the prospect of regulators perhaps making four ram stacks obsolete or as you mentioned a very difficult to kit out with appropriate pipe rams.
Is that something you think is a high probability low probability? How would you handicap that? I don’t know how to handicap it Rob but what I’ll tell you is that it’s not a move that I see gaining steam.
There is lot of discussion in the US about it but I don’t hear a lot about that from other international markets.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo Securities.
Steve you mentioned early in the call that you don’t think your stock price reflects the value of the company.
I agree.
I mean what are the prospects of dusting off your share repurchase program? Are there any regulatory restrictions preventing you from dusting that off? Matt that’s off part of our ongoing dialog with the Board about returning cash to the shareholders and so as we think about the deployment of cash in our business first thing we’d like to do is reinvest in our business and so our marketing team around the world are scouring for opportunities that meet our financial criteria that give us opportunity to grow our business.
We think that’s the first thing the shareholders would like to us do is profitably grow our business.
Second thing we focus on is the investment grade quality of our balance sheet.
We’re comfortable with the strength of the balance sheet.
We want to make sure we remain investment grade quality.
So we’ll continue to pay attention to that and then third thing we do and we’ve demonstrated our disciplined approach to doing this is returning cash to our shareholders.
Now when we get to the point of returning cash to the shareholders then it’s just a question of the vehicle we opt to do that.
We’re in the process now of executing the approximately $1 billion that the shareholders approved in May; we’ve made the first quarterly installment.
We expect to follow through on the remainder of that and we’ll continue to have the dialog with the Board about opportunity for investment quality of the balance sheet and the vehicles for returning cash back to the shareholders.
Terry now that we’re at the end of the hour have you gotten any updates on those contracts whether they could be disclosed? No my cell phone didn’t ping me but it’s been a great day we had two which is part of the report that we gave so we are happy with the two we got before the bell.
We don’t want any cell phones going off in the midst of our call.
It might distract us.
Okay great thanks guys.
Thank you all.
I appreciate you joining us for our call and the continuing interest in the company and we’ll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s presentation.
Thank you for your attendance.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the third quarter 2011 results conference call for Transocean Limited.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome to Transocean's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
We've also posted a file containing four charts that will be discussed during this morning's call.
That file can be found on the company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint Charts.
The charts include average contracted dayrate by rig type out-of-service rig months operating and maintenance cost trends free cash flow from backlog and debt maturities.
The Quarterly Toolkit also has four additional financial tables for your convenience covering: first revenue efficiency then other revenue details daily operating and maintenance costs by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Please note that to aid you any analysis of our performance we have expanded the table containing daily operating and maintenance costs to include data for each of our six major rig types.
Joining me on this morning's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Ricardo Rosa Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I'd like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results and the prospects for the contract drilling business.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it's inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand and operational and other risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the US Securities &amp; Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of the development which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
As I indicated earlier you will find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you and I'm now going to turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad.
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Let me say at the outset how disappointed I am with the third quarter results.
While there were some real positives on the marketing side of the business we simply did not deliver the operational results we wanted.
For the third quarter we reported a net loss of $0.22 per diluted share.
After adjusting for discontinued operations and the other items noted in our press release adjusted diluted earnings per share would have been $0.03.
This compares to $0.59 for the second quarter of 2011.
When compared with the second quarter the third quarter's adjusted results were impacted by lower revenues higher costs and an increase in our effective tax rate.
Before turning the call over to Ricardo and then Terry let me make a few comments on revenues and costs.
As you will see from the published results revenue efficiency of 89.5% during the third quarter deteriorated from the 92.1% we reported in the second quarter.
While the revenue efficiency trend was favorable through August we suffered a significant setback in September.
Among our ultra-deepwater rigs we had five rigs that significantly underperformed during the quarter: The Deepwater Expedition which we have elected to take out of service to overhaul the BOP control system the Jack Ryan which is undergoing significant maintenance to its BOP control system on location in Nigeria the Discoverer Spirit which generated lower revenues which undergoing mobilization to West Africa from the Gulf of Mexico and also underwent repairs to its BOP control system the GSF Explorer which underwent repairs to its BOP and the Discoverer Enterprise which underwent extensive acceptance testing by BP following an out-of-service project earlier this year.
The Explorer Spirit and Enterprise returned to operating rate in October while the Jack Ryan and the Expedition are scheduled to return to operation in November and December respectively.
As you know we've been focused on the issue of revenue efficiency for several quarters now.
As a reminder of the main components of our improvement program we are focused on continually enhancing equipment reliability which involves thorough inspections by Transocean and third-party experts to understand the baseline condition of the equipment standardize maintenance plans to ensure the equipment needs Transocean's high standards and regular testing to make certain the equipment performs as required.
Based on our performance in the second quarter and the early portion of the third quarter I am confident that we are doing the things that best position Transocean for success over the long term.
That said the recertification of the BOP is oftentimes the critical path for returning the rig to service.
Based on continuing discussions with our key pressured control OEMs I remain concerned about their ability to adequately respond in a timely manner to the changing requirements and the significantly increased workload imposed by Transocean and the rest of the offshore drilling industry.
Even with the additional demand planning and quality control support we have provided in over 45 vendor facilities around the world vendor capacity constraints continue to adversely impact our revenue generating ability while driving higher costs.
We will continue to explore every means available to us to assist these key vendors in coping with the new reality.
However while I remain very confident that we have the correct plan and team in place to address these critical issues and achieve historical levels of revenue efficiency it now seems likely that it will take longer than I originally anticipated to reach this goal.
Regarding the increase in operating costs the third quarter reflected increased spending on BOP maintenance and overhaul activity.
The third quarter was also negatively impacted by a significant increase in effective tax rate which is a direct result of our operating performance in the period.
Ricardo will provide insight into the main drivers for this in his comments.
For the last several quarters we have reported results below results below our and the Street's expectations.
I believe there are two primary reasons for this both of which we are diligently working to address.
The first is of course our disappointing operational performance and I have regularly outlined the steps we are taking to correct it.
The other relates to the challenges the analyst and investor community face in modeling our financial performance.
Recognizing the fundamental role we play in this we have recently made enhancements to the information we disclose to provide more insight into the key drivers of Transocean's performance.
These include out-of-service time revenue efficiency and asset class specific operating cost.
On a more positive note I'm pleased that we have closed the acquisition of Aker Drilling.
And I'll take this opportunity to welcome the Aker Drilling personnel to the company.
The transaction was executed very efficiently by our team and the integration is proceeding smoothly.
The acquisition strengthens our industry leadership position in the harsh environment in ultra-deepwater market.
The two drill ships under construction in Korea are already generating considerable interest among our customers.
We also recently celebrated the naming of the Transocean Honor the first of four high-specification jackups we have under construction in Singapore.
These are concrete examples of our asset strategy which is focused on increasing our exposure to high-specification assets both floaters and jackups and reducing our exposure to low-spec or commodity rigs.
In the third quarter we sold four rigs and divested our interest in the joint venture that owns the research vessel JOIDES Resolution for net proceeds of $106 million.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter we divested certain other oil and gas properties for net proceeds of about $50 million.
Our efforts to divest non-core assets continue and there remains significant interest from third parties to acquire Transocean rigs.
Additionally we are exploring options for larger scale transactions to accelerate the high grading of the fleet.
I won't spend much time on the market recognizing that Terry would give you a thorough review of the each asset class.
But let me say that we continue to see increased demand across all rig classes.
The ultra-deepwater market continues to tighten.
We're discussing with customers opportunities to reactivate deepwater rigs like the Transocean Richardson and the Discoverer 534.
The midwater market remains pretty good and the jackup market including the low-spec standard jackups base is improving.
Finally regarding the ongoing litigation related to the Macondo well incident we recently filed the claim in the multi-district litigation asking the Court for partial summary judgment on the contractual indemnity which BP owes us.
Throughout the incident BP has repeatedly and publicly proclaimed that it will make this right and that it will pay all legitimate claims.
Moreover following the recent BP-Anadarko settlement BP complimented Anadarko for recognizing its responsibilities and meeting its obligations under the Mississippi Canyon 252 joint operating agreement.
Similarly we expect BP to live up to its word and make this right by recognizing our legitimate claim and meeting their obligations under the contracts of the Deepwater Horizon.
With that I'll turn the call over to Ricardo to take you through the numbers.
Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
As Steven mentioned we reported a net loss of $71 million or $0.22 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2011.
Excluding $81 million in certain net unfavorable items the largest of which was a $78 million exchange loss related to the acquisition of Aker Drilling our adjusted diluted earnings were $0.03 per share.
This compares with adjusted earnings of $0.59 per diluted share in the second quarter.
The exchange loss resulted from a forward foreign exchange contract executed to lock in the economics of the Aker Drilling transaction in an environment of high currency volatility during this six-week period prior to acquiring the Norwegian krone denominated shares of Aker Drilling.
During this period the U.S.
dollars strengthened materially relative to the krone generating this loss.
$5 million in other cost related to Aker transaction were also incurred in this quarter.
Remaining net unfavorable items pertained mainly to discontinued operations and to assets either sold in the quarter or held for sale as we execute our strategy to dispose off non-core drilling unit and other assets.
I will now comment on the drivers underlying our disappointing operational performance in the quarter.
The ultra-deepwater and deepwater rig categories both saw a lower utilization and lower revenue efficiency in the quarter.
This combined with an increase of $48 million in operating and maintenance expenses and a higher effective tax rate resulted in the significant decline in earnings compared to the second quarter.
Revenue efficiency was 89.5% compared with 92.1% in the previous quarter resulting in a $50 million revenue reduction.
Steven has already addressed the drivers of the deterioration in the ultra-deepwater fleet's efficiency which fell to 86% from 89% in the second quarter.
The efficiency of the deepwater unit fell 6 percentage points to 88% due largely to the transition rather in Angola and the Sedco 710 in Brazil.
Overall fleet utilization improved 3 percentage points in the quarter to 58% from 55% due to fewer idle rigs primarily four standard jackup; one high-specification jackup and one midwater floater but was lower than we expected as shipyard related out-of-service time rose to 33 rig months from a projected 24 rig months.
This was largely attributable to the haul repair of the Marianas following the anchor handling incident in early July the MG Hulme contract preparation and mobilization to India and the Deepwater Expedition shipyard.
The impact of this additional out-of-service time was approximately $95 million that more than offset the $80 million improvement in revenue that resulted partly from the deepwater Discovery which operated in the entire quarter following an extended shipyard.
The increase in total operating and maintenance expense compared to second quarter resulted in part from an increasing cost for BOP and well control equipment recertification.
These costs were incurred mostly during shipyard projects and largely depend on the timing of the equipment overhauls and the individual rigs involved.
Stringent standards imposed by our customers and vendors to comply with NTL-05 regulation significantly increased the quantity and cost of spare parts required in the process.
These costs are indicative of the higher level of maintenance expense required for such equipment in the future.
The effective tax rate of 212.8% incurred in the quarter compared to 33.5% in the second quarter.
The annual effect of tax rate for 2011 which excludes various discreet items was 82.6% in the third compared to 25.6% in the second quarter.
The increase in the annual effective tax rate is primarily due to reduced profitability in certain jurisdiction where activities are either taxed on the deemed profit basis or subject to lower tax rate.
The third quarter amounts are also impacted by the approximately $60 million catchup adjustment require to reflect the change in the forecasted annual effective tax rate for first and second quarter activities.
The increase in the third quarter effective tax rate is primarily due to the items noted earlier as well as the impact of the $78 million loss on the forward foreign exchange contract which provided no tax benefit.
This adjustment to the annual effective tax rate does not reflect any significant new tax exposure.
Net cash flow generated from operations amounted to $492 million in the quarter an improvement of $152 million compared to the second quarter and is largely attributable to a reduction in working capital.
However cash on hand at the quarter-end diminished by $103 million due to the acquisition of the initial interest in Aker Drilling for $199 million the $78 million settlement of the forward foreign exchange contract and the payment in September of the second installment of the dividend amounting to $254 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $137 million down from $293 million in the second quarter due to the timing of shipyard milestone payments associated with our newbuild construction program and were partly offset by $88 million in proceeds from asset sales.
Cash at September 30 was $3.3 billion but will decline in the fourth quarter due to the acquisition of the remaining shares in Aker Drilling for approximately $1.2 billion.
We have renewed our revolving credit facility effective November 1 for further five years and we expect $1.7 billion in outstanding senior convertible notes to be put towards in the fourth quarter.
And we are evaluating alternatives to fund the repayment.
I would now like to provide you with some updates to our guidance for the remainder of 2011.
Other revenues are now projected to amount approximately $650 million reflecting improved activity for our drilling management services.
Looking at expenses we are revising our pervious guidance of $5.6 billion to $5.8 billion for operating and maintenance expenses upward to $5.8 billion to $6 billion with the increase attributable to the consolidation of Aker Drilling's results and to higher shipyard and daily operating expenses driven in party by well controlled equipment recertification costs.
These expenses are offset to some degree by a reduction in forecasted expenses related to the Macondo well incident which are now estimated to be about $100 million down from $135 million previously forecasted but subject to Court ruling associated with the interpleader filed by our underwriters.
Depreciation is forecasted at the lower end of the $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion range inclusive of the two semisubmersibles acquired from Aker Drilling while general and administrative expenses are projected to fall between $260 million and $270 million for the year excluding Aker acquisition cost.
Net interest expense is now expected to range between $570 million and $580 million with the consolidation of Aker net debt of approximately $1.1 billion.
Effective tax is now projected at between 33% and 35% a 12 percentage point increase from pervious guidance for the reasons I have already highlighted.
Income attributable to non-controlling interest which relates mainly to our TPDI and ADDCL joint ventures is forecast to range between $70 million and $75 million.
Our forecast for capital expenditures is unchanged at $1.1 billion.
With respect to the Aker acquisition we will be incurring certain one-time expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011 which we estimated between $35 million and $40 million.
These expenses include professional fees relating to the transaction as well as certain integration cost and about $30 million will be recorded in G&amp;A.
As explained in the 10-Q certain fair value measurements have not been completed yet and the purchase price allocation remains preliminary due to the timing of the acquisition and due to the number of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Key among the preliminary fair values are current assets at $341 million property and equipment at $1.8 billion other assets at $738 million current liabilities of $205 million including short-term debt of $176 million long-term debt of $1.8 billion and goodwill of $397 million.
The figures for current and other assets that I have mentioned above include $970 million of cash investments restricted to the payment of certain assumed debt instruments.
We would not normally provide guidance on 2012 until next February but given the significant amount of uncertainty in today's challenging post-Macondo operating environment we wish to share some initial insights as to how we're currently viewing the coming year.
Because our budget process is not yet complete I want to emphasize that this is only an initial view and we'll revisit this guidance when we report our fourth quarter and yearend results.
As discussed on our last earnings call we expect shipyard activity to be concentrated on deepwater and midwater rigs rather than ultra-deepwater rigs.
As a result we expect lower revenue losses from out-of-service time even though shipyard expenditures are unlikely to decline compared to 2011.
We anticipate operating and maintenance costs to fall into a highly preliminary range of $6.2 billion to $6.5 billion in 2012 reflecting high utilization a full year's activity for the Aker Drilling semisubmersibles continued well control equipment certification cost Macondo expenses and general inflationary pressures particularly on personnel costs.
As it relates to Aker we are not expecting cash operating expenses of the acquired company to change significantly in 2012.
The operating expenses are mainly complied to the two semisubmersibles operating in Norway and we currently assume no significant synergies or cost savings.
At this time we do not expect depreciation or general and administrative expenses in 2012 to change significantly from 2011.
We currently expect that the annual effective tax rate will fall from the projected 34% in 2011 to the up at 20 in 2012.
As profitability in certain deemed profits and low tax jurisdictions improved.
Absent additional newbuild commitment capital expenditures are expected to stay within the $1 million to $1.5 billion range.
With that I will hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Ricardo and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make few general comments.
2011 continues to be an exciting year for Transocean with the recent Acquisition of Aker Drilling strengthening our position in the Norwegian market and expanding our ultra-Deepwater fleet with two DSME designed drillship under construction.
In addition we executed leading day-rate contract totaling approximately $1.2 billion since our last earnings call and $5.8 billion year-to-date.
Since the last earnings call we've successfully executed three high-spec floater contract 11 midwater floater contract three high-spec and 11 standard jackup contracts.
Even more significant is our ability to build to contract one more newbuild jackup extending one of our existing fifth-generation 7 500 floaters at leading edge rate of 500 000 a day and return three ideal jackups to the market.
Despite the recent uncertainty in the global economy tendering and contracting activity in the ultra-deepwater market has continued to strengthen with customers contracting units at a brisk pace.
With little to no global availability remaining for '11 we are now seeing the available 2012 rigs quickly being absorbed by the market.
Although still our softest segment tendering and contracting activity in the deepwater market is improving with long-term fixtures in Australia and Brazil the Petrobras current 1 200-meter and 1 500-meter tenders are ready to absorb additional units.
Midwater activity increased substantially in the third quarter with multiple fixtures especially in the U.K.
and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
Demand for U.K.
and Norway exceeds available supply and we expect upward pressure on pricing in these markets.
Premium and standard jackups are enjoying an increase in utilization over the previous quarter and strong demand is leading to the reactivation of some of the world's idle standard jackups.
Demand continues to improve in Southeast Asia West Africa Saudi Arabia and Mexico.
Let's now look at the various market segments beginning with the ultra-deepwater.
U.S.
Gulf of Mexico Brazil and West Africa remain the hotbeds of ultra-deepwater activity.
Limited availability in 2011 and '12 is pushing the rates up as evident by multiple fixtures well above the $500 000 a day level.
As outlined previously the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico demand is increasing indicating our customers' intent to implement their delayed exploration and development programs.
This coupled with Petrobras' additional demand as demonstrated in the recent 1 200 and 1 500 meter tenders along with a new 2 000 meter tender further improves the supply and demand balance on a worldwide basis.
Indicative of this positive market sentiment we have been able to execute a six-month contract extension for the Sedco Express 7 500 semisubmersible at $500 000 a day with Noble Energy in Israel.
Based on our bullish sentiment on the ultra-deepwater market we believe we are well positioned to further benefit from opportunities in late 2012 and '13 at attractive rates for the limited number of units that are scheduled to be available in our fleet.
The newest editions to our fleet the 2 DSME designed ultra-deepwater drillships under construction are drawing interest from our customers as they begin to explore their need for 2013 and beyond.
With new discoveries in the Golden Triangle coupled with the emerging markets of Australia French Guiana Sierra Leone Ghana Liberia Tanzania Mozambique and Mexico we remain confident about the future of the ultra-deepwater market and our ability to capitalize on the opportunities.
Turning to the Deepwater market tendering and contracting activity has picked up slightly from the previous quarter with 10 fixtures in last two months with most activity occurring in Australia.
We see demand improving in this segment to the continuing tightness in ultra-deepwater markets.
So Transocean has no active availability in 2011 after extending the Discoverer Seven Seas through the end of 2011.
We are in advanced discussions with multiple customers on our active Deepwater units remaining available in 2012 and are confident to close these out in the near future.
Petrobras' recent tender will also absorb additional global supply further improving the outlook in the Deepwater segment and potentially providing an opportunity to reactivate a few of our idle units.
Turning our attention to the active midwater floater market contracting activity in the North region and U.K.
sectors of the North Sea has further diminished available capacity through 2012 and '13.
The earliest availability of incumbent units in Norway is Q1 2013 providing opportunities to relocate capable capacity which is limited from the outside into this attractive market.
Little supply remains in the U.K.
continental shelf for our 2012 commencement.
We are in discussions with multiple operators to not only secure our remaining active units but also to reactivate one of our two-spec midwater units in the U.K the Sedco 712 during the upcoming year.
ONGC has been the driving force in India thus far taking three midwater unit of which Transocean has been able to secure one the Actinia at attractive terms.
Since our last call we've been able to add and secure additional 5.5 rig gears in midwater class the dayrates ranging from 235 000 a day to 293 000 a day.
Additionally since our last fleet status report we had a further year and half with dayrates ranging from 250 000 a day to 273 000 a day.
Based on our discussions with multiple operators in Norway the U.K West African and South-East Asia we remain optimistic to secure further contracting opportunities through '11 and '12.
Living to the jackup market the tendering and contracting pace for premium and standard jackup remains strong.
As we predicted the undersupply in the high speck segment has caused demand to thrill over into the standard unit causing utilization and market dayrate levels to rise.
In this improved market environment and since our last earnings call we've been able to secure a multiple contracts across our jackup fleet about 8 rig years with dayrates ranging from 63 000 a day for the lower-spec jackup to a 191 000 a day for the premium unit.
Additionally since our last fleet status report we added more than a rig year with dayrates ranging from 63 000 a day for the lower-spec unit to a 130 000 a day for the standard jackup.
Most notably we were able to execute a contract with Chevron in Thailand for delivery of a third newbuild jackup for a three-year term at a 145 000 a day.
In addition we were able execute an extension of the GlobalSantaFe Galaxy II with Galaxy has three wells at a 191 000 a day in the U.K.
We are confident that the additional demand from our customers for premium and standard jackups will lead the further contract execution for our active fleet and provide opportunities to reactivate some of spec-asset.
In conclusion we continue to experience strong demand across all markets segments and all major oil and gas provinces in emerging market which reinforces our view that utilization in dayrate will continue to improve.
Transocean has been at the forefront of this cyclone adding significant contract backlog at market leading rates and putting some of our spec-asset back to work at attractive returns.
The underlying market strength combined with the addition of high specification newbuild jackups harsh environment semis and the ultra-deepwater drillships well position Transocean to provide our customers with the right assets for their future programs and create a positive growth outlook.
That concludes my overview of the market.
So I'll turn it back to you Steven.
With that operator we're ready to open up the lines for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is from Angie Sedita from UBS.
Steven clearly your vendors are behind in ramping up to meet the new industry standards and the demands that the contractors now have out there versus in times past.
Is the way time on vendors as much as 30% to 50% of the issue of what we saw here in the third quarter? I'll tell you Angie it is a significant component of what we saw in the third quarter.
I'm not sure I can be crisp enough to give you a specific percentage.
If we went rig-by-rig which would be way too detailed for this kind of a conversation I could tell you what the issues were on each rig but how did this still that into an overall fleet percentage I think would be a just a bit tough.
It was a significant component.
And then are you incurring any cost or BOP standards on a global basis that your peers are not.
I'm trying to understand why your cost and rig efficiencies could be more impacted than your peers obviously for certain reasons.
But are you taking any actions that you were taking on your BOPs that others may not be on a global basis? From an industrial perspective Angie I don't think the standards are any different.
We may have taken a bit more of a proactive approach taking advantage of opportunities where we had already scheduled a special periodic survey or were already in the process of mobilization rigs from one location to another.
We may have taken advantage and already planned out-of-service period like that to incur the incremental cost of recertifying the BOP.
But as far as the recertification standards themselves that's an industry-wide issue.
And then just one quick for Terry.
Certainly the ultra-deepwater markets are encouraging here.
How much ability do you think the industry has to push for higher rates in 2012? Do you think that rates generally stay here in the low 500s or is there a possibility we could move into the mid-500s in 2012? Look at the availability that it's rumored to be less for 2012.
I think it's only about five units.
I think you are going to see the right thing pushed up.
The demand is clearly out there.
Were in a lot of conversations where the customers simply don't have a rig for 2012 program that they're trying to enact.
So I think you're going to see upward pressure.
And moving on our next question is from Collin Gerry from Raymond James.
One of follow-up on kind of the BOP topic.
It seems that that's the bigger cause here for some of the operational stuff.
And maybe you could talk to us about the progress through the fleet.
You highlighted five rigs that are undergoing repair or recertification.
If you looked at your ultra-deepwater fleet how would you qualify your progress there? Are 25% to the fleet are based on these new standards? Is it 75%? Maybe just give us a better sense of where we are.
Collin it's going to be tough for me to give you a crisp number.
But if you look at the 27 operating ultra-deepwater rigs today 10 of those are newbuilds.
So this is really no issue there.
Another significant percentage and I don't know what the number is probably five or six of those operate in the Gulf for Mexico and have already been through NTL-05 recertification.
There are another couple that I identified as part of the issues we're experiencing in the third quarter.
We'd gone back to work or will go back to work shortly here in the fourth quarter.
So if you just look at the 27 ultra-deepwater rigs I would say we're more than 50% of the way through but still some work to do.
I now want to switch gears a little bit to the revenue efficiency side.
Steven you mentioned in your comments that it's going to take longer than you originally thought.
Maybe you could qualify and numerically specifically if we look your progress went from 89 to 90 to 92 and then back down this quarter how long do you think to go back in the 90% range.
Let me try and give you a perspective on it.
I think there are three issues we're facing.
One of them is the broad industrial perspective and that's just the result of the post-Macondo environment that higher expectations more scrutiny less tolerance on the part of our customers on the part of the regulators.
That's here to stay.
And while that situation continues to evolve I think our industrial leading operating experience and our subject matter expert and our technical capabilities put us in a very good position.
I would argue that it's an advantage for Transocean.
As that environment continues to evolve we're in a good position to respond to that.
And I have no concerns at all about our ability to compete and perform in this post-Macondo environment.
It's here to stay but I'm confident we'll be able to respond to that.
Second key issue that we're facing is just Transocean's continuous improvement program are always improving our operating procedures our maintenance protocols and our standards and our policies.
And based on what we saw in the first and second quarter and early part of the third quarter we've made very good progress there.
And I'm confident we'll continue to see progress there.
The third issue is kind of the one that's in between and that's the industry's reliance on this small cadre of key vendors.
And if you look back over the last 10 or 12 years Collin we've seen this a couple of times in the past happening in 2000 2001 and it happened in about 2006 and 2007 where the vendor community just got overwhelmed.
They've responded do it every time in the past.
The frustrating aspect of that is it takes time.
So the situation we're in is going to endure into 2012.
I think we will able to regularly demonstrate progress but as sign September it's not linear it's not clean.
It tends to be frustrating at times as September.
So I'm confident Collin that we're able to continue to demonstrate progress for the analyst and investor community.
Our next question today is from Kurt Hallead from RBC.
I'm going to ask somewhat of an unfair question.
But you were to put a probability on 2012 earnings higher or lower than $4 per share which way do you think it will lay higher than $4 or lower than $4 at this point based on what you know? And I won't hold you to it as the quarter goes on.
Kurt this is Ricardo.
You know that it's not our practice to give any form of guidance of that nature.
We've set up to the plate.
We've talked about our initial perceptions of what we can expect in 2012.
We believe that the guidance that we've provided there will provide you a reasonable basis for starting to model 2012 with more accuracy.
My follow-up question is then on the vendor front.
Steven you mentioned you expect that to endure throughout the course of 2012 with progress being made.
So it's all duly noted.
You've also mentioned I think in the past that you guys have taken some action on your own to get some Transocean people into facilities of the vendors and so on.
So could you update us on how that has progressed what kind of improvements you've been able to garner from that approach? And from the vendor standpoint itself how quickly do you think they are trying to address this issue because in certain extent the bigger backlogs they have gives them maybe some opportunity to get better pricing and margins on their front.
So I don't know if their interests are necessarily aligned with yours.
I think you've hit on a key issue for us.
We have Transocean personnel in over 45 vendor facilities around the world.
And since we embarked on that effort in terms of helping the vendors supporting the vendors with demand and capacity planning and QA/QC we have seen concrete examples of where we've had an impact on the ability of the vendors to meet our expectation.
The challenge is there is only so much capacity and it takes time for the likes of the NOVs and GEO oil and gas and Cameron to construct new facilities and buy and install new machine tools and train new machinists and welders.
That's the significant effort that those vendors are going through right now.
We've had an opportunity over the last several weeks to meet with many of those folks and review their plans and try and provide as much incentive as we can for those plans to be implemented as quickly and efficiently as possible.
And as I've said we've seen them do it in the past.
So I have no doubt about their ability to do it this time around.
I'm just really frustrated with the amount of time it's taking.
Your point about their backlog and their ability to push prices is well noted.
And we push against that every chance we get.
I've just one additional follow-up here.
The challenge for all involved in this process including what you guys said in your fleet status reports you provide us with some really extensive information and you try to give us some sense of what the out-of-service time is going to be or planned out-of-service time is going to be.
Over the last two quarters it's been over 1 000 days and fourth quarter it's mapping out to be 500.
You've provided your guidance in your operating cost and the odd numbers.
Are you going strictly by what's in the fleet status or are you providing some sort of margin of error in that out-of-service time.
As I'm trying to calibrate it myself at this juncture I just want to get a sense on how you guys go about that process.
Kurt this is Ricardo again.
As you know we've extended the visibility of our out-of-service time in the fleet status report and we've pushed it out through to the end of 2012.
We include those shipyards of major projects where we have a high level confidence that they will take place and clearly our level of visibility diminishes as we look further out of course to the next 15 months.
So we share with our investors what the out-of-service time that we expect to incur and we review that very regularly in fact months prior to the re-issuance of the monthly fleet status report.
So we respond effectively to changing circumstances to the developments that have affected each one of the individual rigs.
We always have an element of contingency in our evaluations.
The level of accuracy clearly depends on the expectations that we have from various external factors.
And just for clarity that does include what your expectations are BOP recertification and so and so forth right? BOP recertification is an integral part of the project.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go next to just Geoff Kieburtz from Weeden &amp; Company.
Just to clarify here a little bit more on the subsea expenses are we talking about essentially an event of one-time event of recertification or is there an element of ongoing operation of maintenance expense increase here related to subea systems.
The significant aspect to it Geoff is the one-time recertification.
As I mentioned we're also continuing to enhance our operating standards and our maintenance protocols.
So there will be some upward bias to the overall cash operating costs of the rigs in response to that.
But that's not going to be material relative to the one-time expenditure necessary to recertify the BOP.
Steven earlier you responded to the question about sort of why is Transocean having this increased problem we're not seeing at least so far in your peer group.
And I think your answer was perhaps Transocean was being more proactive in taking advantage of planned shipyard time to get everything done.
Yet it appears as if there was some sort of communication problem between Transocean and its vendors because they are not ready to do this in the timely fashion that you expected.
Can you elaborate on that a little bit? I met with one of our key pressure control OEMs about 10 days ago.
And they showed me a chart of the average amount of work Transocean had given them in the prior five years compared to the amount of work we've given them in the last 12 months.
And it is a significant increase.
Absent the facilities to accommodate that it overwhelmed their capacity.
And so when you talk to those guys they describe it in terms of roofline and the addition of roofline to their statistics takes time.
Let me give you one other perspective Geoff on why I think it is a disproportionately affecting Transocean.
If you think about Transocean's historical leadership in ultra-deepwater more of our rigs relative to our ultra-deepwater fleet came from prior newbuild cycle.
Two-thirds of our ultra-deepwater fleet comes from prior newbuild cycle.
As far as the peer group is concerned only one-third of their fleet comes from prior newbuild cycles.
That's reflective of Transocean's historical leadership in ultra-deepwater.
Everybody else is a bit later to the game than we are.
Consequently as these issues manifest themselves in ultra-deepwater marks subsea BPO control systems we're going to be impacted disproportionately by it.
Moving on our next question is from Ian MacPherson from Simmons.
Ricardo do you see your second half 2012 cost lower than the first half based on the evolution of framework we've been talking about and the recertification et cetera? Ian in the guidance I gave on 2012 I did indicate that there will be a shift in the mix of major projects between 2011 to 2012 away from the ultra-deepwater rigs into more of the deepwater and the midwater fleet.
We expect it to result in reduced loss of revenue due to out-of-service time.
In terms of cost it's relatively difficult to say because the project even though it may take less time could involve a higher cost per day incurred depending on the state of each individual rigs that is being brought into shipyard.
So I have to state that it's very preliminary stage to indicate that it's going to be lower in the second half of 2012.
My follow-up would be the Richardson and the 534 were mentioned in the opening comments.
Has any reactivation work begun ahead of contracts for those that may have shown up in your third quarter costs or your fourth quarter costs and/or CapEx? Is there any color that can be provided or elaboration on the prospects for those two units? I don't think that anything we've done to those rigs in the third quarter would necessarily qualify as reactivation.
The 534 we have kept enough of a crew on there to keep the high tech systems the DP system and the power management system alive and well.
I wouldn't call that reactivation but it's certainly going to aid in the reactivation of the rig when the time comes.
We've not spent any significant money at all on the Richardson.
Yes just to give you a little bit of a color on both of the rigs we actually have both of them bid into some of the open tendering.
You may have seen that the Richardson is the number two rig on one of the Petrobras tenders.
So we're in the number two spot and we believe that we'll be in conversation regarding the Richardson's opportunity with Petrobras in Brazil.
And also we are seeing a lot of interest from Norway potentially to upgrade the rig to take it to Norway.
So we are very optimistic on returning the Richardson back to work.
The 534 also there has been some interest from Petrobras and the inquiry for some lockover work and that hasn't been made public.
So the enquiry has been open but we're just going to wait and see on that one.
So again we think they're both positive opportunities.
And we're hopeful that we can evacuate that this year to start the process.
We'll take our next question from Douglas Clifford from Omega Advisors.
This is an accounting question on your cost side.
Was there some cost in shipyard during the quarter that management had thought would be capitalized and it ended up getting expensed to sort of explain the surprise element on the cost? Doug this is Ricardo.
In the quarter we had a very close look at expenditures on recertification of BOP and related well control equipment.
We upgraded and reviewed our guidelines in respect to that.
We haven't placed a policy that is clear as to the call for the deferred as opposed to expensed.
The third quarter was partially affected by some increased costs on BOP recertification.
Some of those costs approximately $50 million relate back to prior quarters of this year.
So there was a slight uptick as a result of a closer review of our guidelines and implementation of the policy.
Was there an effect on the third quarter also $50 million on prior quarters? There were expenditures incurred on BOP recertification in the third quarter of approximately $30 million yes.
Steven does this quarter affect any way your outlook for Transocean's dividend and the sustainability of it? I anticipated that that question would come up at some point during the discussion today.
We will continue to engage the Board in thorough review of the dividend issue.
And the Board will take the same things in the consideration that they've always taken to consideration which is our outlook for the business the approximate for cash flow generation the opportunities to redeploy cash in our business.
It will be a thorough review.
We'll start that review as it relates to the 2012 dividend again with the Board when we meet here in a couple of weeks time.
And the Board will make a final decision on that at the Board meeting.
Mark Lacey from Investec Asset Management has our next question.
I'm not going to ask you whether you're going on $4 for next year.
It's more of just strategic question rather than anything else.
You had the out-of-service rig months for 2012 given you knew that the issues with Macondo.
And given the dividend is such an important factor for translation as a demonstration of its ability to generate free cash in this difficult time what droves the decision to actually buy Aker Drilling? As a shareholder we just can't see the logic of this decision.
Can you give me some comfort on what drove that decision in this very very difficult time? Mark I think one of the things that the shareholders want us to do is to identify opportunities to redeploy capital in our business at attractive rates of return.
And the opportunity to acquire Aker Drilling and expand the company's presence and leadership in the harsh environment market and the ultra-deepwater market to bring two additional ultra-deepwater drillships into the fleet at fair valuation was an attractive opportunity for us.
And so we chose to pursue that.
We're going to continue to look for opportunities to redeploy capital in our business at attractive rates of return.
Steven your problem with this is you still got a $1.9 billion debt maturity that you know you have outstanding.
So with all the moving costs that you have doesn't it make a fair transaction marginal? I'm not sure what you mean by making a fair transaction marginal.
The assessment of the opportunity in our minds was that this was an attractive opportunity for us to redeploy capital and grow our business particularly the strategic element of our business.
So you don't have any problems with debt maturity then in terms of paying the $1.9 billion? Mark this is Ricardo.
We highlighted that we have a number of options that we are looking at.
We've just renewed our revolving credit facility of $2 billion for further five years.
Even after the acquisition of the shares in Aker Drilling we have significant cash on the balance sheet.
And we continue to be significantly cash flow positive at the operating level.
So we are not in a situation where this is holding us a new concern.
We have everything available and we're evaluating it.
From a shareholders point of view what you're telling me is that the revolver is unlikely to be used overseas for debt maturity; and secondly the divided is more than comfortable for 2012? No Mark I think you're putting words into my mouth there.
I would say that as far as the dividend is concerned it's something that has to be approved by shareholders every year.
And it's subject to review both by management and by the board in the light of all the various factors.
We have indicated that we are committed to a sustained dividend.
But clearly we have to take all of the externalities into account.
And as I've said we have had in 2010 we had access with the capital markets.
We believe we still have access.
So I think the options that existed then still exist for us today.
Our next question today is from Dmitry Baron from Decade Capital.
Have you exercised Aker's option to order two more UDWs which was delayed till the end of October.
And also for the Ricardo probably from the bigger picture perspective then also to follow up on the prior question.
Is there a commitment to maintain a few billion of cash as a cushion on balance sheet still in place? And how do you expect to accomplish it between the portable converts the recent payment for Aker.
I understand that you are reviewing different options but if you could elaborate on that.
I will appreciate it.
So I'll take the first part of that Dmitry with respect to the two options that came along with acquisition of Aker Drilling nominal exploration of those options was earlier this week on the 31st of October.
We had engaged in discussions with the SME that option expiry date passed without any formal action on our part.
Dmitry this is Ricardo with regard to your question on cash flow and the ability meet the obligations in the short-term.
I don't think I have there is much more I can add to the comment that I gave to Mark.
We're looking at a number of options that we have.
And we are still generating significant amount of cash.
And we've renewed the revolving credit facility.
But if I may just a follow up is it still the goal to maintain a few billion of dollars as cushion of cash on hand? That still remains our goal yes.
Our next question will comes from Andreas Stubsrud from Pareto Securities.
Can you just remind us on the average cost of reactivating your spend at jackups? When I talk abut the stack standard jackup fleet Andreas I always break it down into a third of third of third.
The easiest third to reactivate can probably be reactivated for something around $20 million broad range $20 million.
The other third that set the other end of the spectrum I'm not sure we would contemplate reactivating.
They might be attractive reactivation candidates for somebody else.
But the cost for us would probably be prohibitive.
Then middle third is somewhere in between there somewhere between maybe $30 million at the low end in $50 or $60 million on the high end.
And just one quick follow up.
And for the five deepwater-floaters is your significant CapEx do you need to put into those or investments put into those five floaters if you want to reactivate them such as Discoverer 534? It's probably a similar sort of break down those in numbers would be a little bit different.
You know the rigs like the 534 and the Richardson would be relatively straight forward reactivation candidates.
Now there's going to be some significant capital or significant expenditure required to reactivate them.
But we think the economics in the deepwater market.
We think we'll able to find opportunities that justify those economics.
There are probably a couple at the other end of the spectrum that would be significant reactivation expenditures for that reason or not being actively marketed today at all.
That's all the time we have for questions.
Speakers we'll turn the conference back to you.
Great we appreciate the continuing interest in the company.
And we'll talk to you next quarter.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the conference over to Thad Vayda.
Good morning and welcome to Transocean's fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release providing our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
We've also posted a file containing three charts that may be referenced during this morning's call.
That file can be found on the company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint Charts.
The charts include average contracted dayrate by rig type out-of-service rig months and operating and maintenance cost trends.
The Quarterly Toolkit also has four additional financial tables provided for your convenience covering revenue efficiency other revenue detail daily operating and maintenance costs by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me on this morning's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Greg Cauthen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ricardo; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I'd like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including but not limited to future financial performance operating results the prospects for the contract drilling business and the impact of the Macondo Well incident.
Such statements are based upon the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it's inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand and operational and other risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities &amp; Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of the development which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Reg G.
As I indicated earlier you will find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate on this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you very much and I'll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Thanks Thad and thank you all for joining us today.
A quick word regarding the rescheduling of our release and conference call.
Based on the advice of counsel and in the context of the recent OPA and Clean Water Act ruling and the anticipated start of the trial today we're elected to accelerate the disclosure of our fourth quarter and full year results by about a day.
I apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused and appreciate your flexibility.
Before providing my overview of the quarter and outlook for 2012 I'd like to take a minute to reassure our shareholders customers and employees that I am fully committed to addressing the issues that negatively affected the company's performance in 2011.
Throughout the organization I have stressed the urgency of improving our operational performance both in shipyards and in the field and executing our asset strategy.
We will continue to collaborate with our customers to deliver the right solutions leveraging our resources and seasoned expertise.
This includes maximizing the uptime of our rigs while achieving incident-free operations.
Despite the challenges presented by the current operating environment we will work hard to deliver the results that you expect.
I also officially welcome Greg Cauthen who accepted my invitation to temporarily return to Transocean and as CFO provide interim leadership of our finance function.
The search for a permanent CFO is going well and we're fortunate to have a number of very highly qualified candidates under consideration.
Following my review of the quarter Greg will give you the details of our fourth quarter performance and our guidance for 2012 followed by Terry who would give you color on the markets.
For the fourth quarter we reported a net loss of $18.62 per diluted share.
This net loss reflects the $5.2 billion impairment of our goodwill which we reported earlier this month and an estimated Macondo contingent loss of $1 billion.
After consideration of these and the other items noted in our press release adjusted earnings were $0.18 per share.
The fourth quarter also reflects an additional increase in our annual effective tax rate.
This change in tax rate from the third quarter resulted in a $0.14 per share adverse effect on the fourth quarter's results.
Greg will talk more about this in a moment.
I'm pleased that when compared to the third quarter the fourth quarter's results reflected an increase in utilization and revenue efficiency contributing to revenue approximately 8% higher.
Revenue efficiency in the fourth quarter was 91.9% an improvement over the 89.5% in the third quarter and generally in line with the second quarter's results of 92.1%.
During the fourth quarter our ultra-deepwater floaters which have the most significant impact on our overall performance delivered revenue efficiency of 89.5% their best of the year.
I continue to believe that we are on the right track.
However I will remind you that while our revenue efficiency should gradually improve going forward through and technical and contractual efforts the progress will not necessarily be linear.
I'm also extremely pleased with the results delivered by the two harsh-environment semi-submersibles we acquired from Aker Drilling which achieved a combined 98.9% revenue efficiency in the fourth quarter.
I want to make a couple of comments on the recent decision taken by the Board the not recommended dividend at the upcoming annual general meeting.
In arriving at this decision the Board considered a number of factors including the outlook for our business and the context of the existing operating environment for the industry and Transocean specifically our financial flexibility and the strength of our balance sheet and opportunities to reinvest in our fleet.
I think it's important to point out that our capital deployment philosophy is unchanged.
We intend to ensure the financial flexibility and strong balance sheet we need to pursue our objective which includes remaining and investment grade issuer.
So we invest in our business and value-creating opportunities and return excess cash to our shareholders.
Our Board will continuously evaluate our business in the context of this capital deployment philosophy.
We are addressing the challenges we experienced in 2011 through our operational and project excellence initiative.
Our emphasis on operational excellence includes thorough equipment inspection enhanced maintenance and rigorous pre-deployment testing and we're making progress with these efforts.
In conjunction with our operational initiative our focus on project excellence includes closer cooperation with our vendors to improve capacity planning quality control and more timely delivery.
We have also taken steps to remove the BOP recertification process from the critical path to redelivery of rigs from the shipyard.
This should overtime significantly reduce project risk.
Supporting both operational and project excellence efforts we are rolling out a new maintenance sales and upgrade program that is more compatible with the new rules for testing and certification and has a particular focus on rigs with complex multiplex or MUX BOP control system.
In addition we've planned to better manage project execution risk through our five-year cycle recertification plan based on a unit exchange approach versus a traditional inspect and repair philosophy.
This approach will apply to all control systems during both operations and shipyard projects.
Regarding our people and training solutions we have established several subsea initiative including a subsea center of excellence and swat teams in our major operational locations staffed with some of the best engineers in the industry providing technical support.
2011 also had a share of encouraging progress in our asset strategy with the acquisition of Arker Drilling and the delivery of the newbuild jackup Transocean Honor from the shipyard plus the divestiture of several of our low-spec jackups.
We are committed to executing this asset strategy increasing our exposure to high-specification assets and reducing our exposure to low-spec commodity class asset.
With an improving second-hand market for drilling rigs we will continue to pursue single asset divestitures sales of asset packages or other large scale transaction.
During 2011 the company continued to lead in ultra-deepwater with the Dhirubhai Deepwater KG2 setting a new world record for drilling a well with the deepest water depth by an offshore drilling rig.
I also want to thank the Transocean crews around the world for achieving substantial progress in 2011 towards our vision of incident-free operation.
As Terry will tell you the markets are improving across the globe and Transocean is extremely well-positioned to benefit from this improving environment.
Regarding the ongoing litigation related to the Macondo well incident.
We are pleased with several recent important rulings.
First the court ruled that BP was not an additional insured party with respect to environmental damages under our excess liability policy.
Second the court ruled that BP generally owes us contractual indemnity for compensatory damages associated with the spill.
The third one which we received last week rules that we will not be liable for other damages for the subsurface release of hydrocarbon and that we are not liable for Clean Water Act fines and penalties.
But we are still interested in finding an acceptable resolution that allows us to put all of the remaining uncertainty behind us.
We are well prepared to argue the merits of our case that the trial which is current scheduled to begin next week.
Regarding the incident in Brazil I was pleased to see Chevron accept responsibility for the incident and their complementary commentary regarding the performance of the Transocean equipment and crew.
We believe that the potential claims being reported in Brazil are without merit and we will rigorously defend our position.
Let me conclude by reminding you that Transocean has always been a world-class organization with world-class people and assets and we take pride in our ability to perceiver in a tough environment.
While we recognize we have a long way to go I believe we have taken important steps to return to best-in-class operating performance.
We are intensely focused in all segments of our organization on getting our rigs back to work and taking full advantage of continued strong marketing conditions.
In doing so we believe we are well-positioned to deliver in 2012 and beyond.
With that I will turn the call over to Greg to take you through the numbers.
Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
As Steven just mentioned we recorded a net loss of approximately $6.12 billion or $18.62 per diluted share for the fourth quarter 2011.
Excluding approximately $6.2 billion in certain net unfavorable items our diluted earnings were $0.18 per share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings of $0.03 per diluted share in the third quarter.
Net unfavorable items included an estimated non-cash charge of $5.2 billion for goodwill impairment related to our contract drilling reporting unit.
Under U.S.
GAAP we test for goodwill impairment annually on October 1.
After failing the first step of the test in the fourth quarter we had to do a detailed analysis to estimate the value of our goodwill.
This required us to determine and estimate at the market valuation of our contract drilling business and consequently an estimate of the implied value of goodwill.
The estimated impairment was determined by comparing the estimated implied value to the existing book value of goodwill.
It is important to note that the estimated goodwill impairment is based solely on conditions on October 1 and includes the same market factors that also impacted our share price in the fourth quarter.
Our estimate is subject to adjustments and will be finalized on the first quarter of 2012.
Net unfavorable items also included an estimated loss contingency of $1.0 billion related to the Macondo Well incident that we believe is probable.
The loss contingency amount is our current estimate under FAS 5 of U.S.
GAAP of the low-end of the range of reasonably possible losses.
As new developments occur or new information comes known the amount of estimated loss could change and the change could be significant.
The remaining net unfavorable items are as follows.
$30 million of charges related to our acquisition of Aker Drilling specifically $70 million of charges in G&amp;A and a $13 million loss on Aker securities held prior to the closing of acquisition.
$0.6 million in income from discontinued operations primarily related to the gain on the sale of Challenger Minerals (North Sea) Limited $18 million of favorable discrete tax items and finally $11 million from a gain on the sale of the GSF Adriatic XI as we continue to execute dispositions in line with our assets strategy.
The company's overall operational performance excluding the net favorable items that I have already described improved sequentially in the fourth quarter primarily related to reduction in shipyard at a service time which favorable impacted revenue.
The quarter also benefited from the inclusion of Aker Drilling as well as improvements in the revenue efficiency and utilization.
Fourth quarter also included reduced shipyard expenses with most of this savings related to a reduction in well controlled equipment certification cost.
Revenue for the quarter increased by $180 million to approximately $2.4 billion.
The Aker acquisition increased revenue by $100 million.
Overall fleet utilization continued to improve to 61% for the fourth quarter versus 58% in the third quarter.
Improved utilization increased revenue by $71 million related primarily to reductions in shipyard time versus the third quarter.
Revenue also increased by $17 million as revenue efficiency improved to 91.9% compared to 89.5% in the previous quarter.
Operating maintenance expenses excluding the net unfavorable items already mentioned increased by $25 million compared to the third quarter.
The acquisition of Aker Drilling increased cost by $44 million.
Cost also increased by $26 million or $0.03 per share due to the termination of Deepwater Expedition contract related both to an accrual for certain disputed items as well as the immediate expensing of certain items which would have been recognized over the remaining contract period.
These costs increases related to Aker Drilling in the Deepwater Expedition were partially offset by net $40 million of others favorable items with the most significant being at $25 million net reduction in well controlled system certification and shipyard related cost.
Excluding the net unfavorable items described above fourth quarter operating income was $394 million increased by 47% compared to the third quarter and essentially represents a return to the level of operating income in first and second quarters of the year.
The increase in interest expense net of amount capitalized in the quarter to $178 million was primarily related to the debt assumed in the acquisition of Aker Drilling as well as the new senior notes issued during the quarter.
The increase in interest income to $17 million from $7 million in the third quarter was primarily due to the Aker restricted cash helped to support the export financed debt assumed in the Aker transaction.
Although not considered as the fees under U.S.
GAAP this restricted cash arrangement essentially economically defuses the $889 million of export financed debt.
The Aker restricted cash is included in other current assets and other assets on the balance sheet.
The effective tax rate of negative 2.2% in the fourth quarter decreased from 212.8% in the third quarter primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment and the loss contingency.
The full year annual effective tax rate for 2011 which excludes the $18 million of various favorable discrete items was 41.3 % for the quarter compared to 34.1% for the third quarter.
The increase in the full year annual effective tax rate is primarily due to lower level of full year profitability that was expected in the third quarter as our marginal tax rate is significantly lower than our annual effective tax rate.
Importantly the fourth quarter income tax expense includes a true-up of $46 million or $0.14 per diluted share related to applying the increase in the full-year annual effective tax rate to the first three quarters of the year.
Net cash flow generated from operations amounted to $563 million in the quarter.
An improvement of $71 million compared to the third quarter and is largely attributable to better operating results.
Capital expenditures totaled $350 million up from a $137 million in the third quarter due to the timing of shipyard milestone payments associated with our newbuild construction program.
Proceeds from asset sales were $96 million.
In addition we closed the acquisition of Aker Drilling for a cost net of cash required of $1.05 billion.
And we paid the third installment of our 2011 dividend for $255 million.
As Steven has indicated the company remains committed to remaining in investment grade issuer.
Further to that commitment we issued $2.5 billion in senior notes at $1.2 billion in equity during the fourth quarter.
The proceeds were used to repay the Series B convertible notes and to replenish cash used to finance Aker.
The net result of the above was an increase in cash on hand of $4 billion from $3.3 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Turning to 2012 I'd like to now update our full year 2012 guidance.
As reported on our latest fleet status report and subsequent update we expect fewer out-of-service days related to shipyards in 2012.
We also expect a more favorable mix of shipyard comprising fewer high-value generating ultra-deepwater and deepwater rigs.
As a result we expect lower revenue losses in 2012 from shipyards as compared to 2011.
We cancelled the reduction in planned shipyards the change in mix of rigs and the various operational initiatives Steven has highlighted we expect a lower risk of shipyard overrun.
We are encouraged that the Millennium and the Grand Bank shipyards the first two shipyard projects executed with our new processes have been completed to plan.
With that we've remained cautious.
We know that even prior to Macondo it is not uncommon for unplanned or exceptional major shipyard to increase our annual loss revenue due to out-of-service period by 15% in excess of plan.
And for 2012 we estimate this would be about $75 million in additional loss revenue.
We are not able to predict exceptional shipyards and they are not included in our fleet status report and update.
As Steven discussed we expect our revenue efficiency to gradually improve over time however this improvement will not be linear.
Based upon recent experience we currently expect average revenue efficiency during 2012 to be similar to that experienced in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We expect a gradual improvement but it is possible it may take several years to achieve our historical level of performance as we continue effort both technical and contractual to accomplish this goal.
The actual revenue efficiency will vary from quarter-to-quarter as was the case even prior to Macondo.
We expect other revenues to be between $625 million and $650 million for the full year 2012.
Recall that other revenues generate fairly low margins generally in the mid-to-high single digit range.
We estimate operating maintenance cost for 2012 to be between $6.15 billion and $6.35 billion reflecting higher utilization a full year's activity for Aker Drilling continued well equipment certification cost and estimated $50 million of the Macondo expenses net of estimated insurance recovery and general inflationary pressures.
The midpoint and upper-end of this cost estimate range is lower than previously guided as we have now completed our 2012 budget and implemented a variety of cost reduction efforts.
Our well control equipment certification costs are expected to be lower in 2012.
We have completed certification of well control equipment on 29 over 63 active floaters including 18 of 27 ultra-deepwater rigs and have eight planned in 2012.
As reported in our fleet status report and subsequent update our planned shipyards are more heavily weighted to the first half of 2012.
Consequently we expect operating and maintenance cost to be approximately $100 million higher in each of the first and second quarters than in the third and fourth quarters of 2012.
Finally our operating and maintenance cost estimates assume the reactivation of the High Island IX.
We expect depreciation expense for 2012 to be between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion reflecting the full year effect of the acquisition of Aker Drilling.
General and administrative costs for 2012 are expected to range between $270 million and $300 million.
Interest expense net of interest income of roughly $50 million and capitalized interest of roughly $40 million is estimated to be between $610 million and $630 million with the increase versus 2011 primarily related to the debt assumed and the acquisition of Aker Drilling as well as the refinancing of the Series B Convertibles with the higher cost Senior Notes.
We currently expect the annual effective tax rate for 2012 to be between 25% and 30%.
But this will depend on our overall level of profitability among various other factors.
Absent additional newbuild commitments capital expenditures are expected to be between $1.2 billion or $1.3 billion in 2012.
Of this roughly $350 million is due to our existing newbuild programs $250 million related to our well control equipment to support our operational and project excellence initiatives and the remainder relates to our planned shipyards and normal ongoing capital expenditures for our operating rigs and offshore basis.
As Steven indicated our philosophy regarding capital deployment is unchanged which is to maintain a strong flexible balance sheet and an investment grade rating on our debt reinvest in the business through value-enhancing opportunities and return excess cash to shareholders.
In support of maintaining a strong flexible balance sheet the company has previously stated its long-term commitment to reduce debt to an amount between $7 billion and $9 billion and we reaffirm that commitment.
For purposes of this target debt does not include Aker export finance debt which is supported by a similar amount of restricted cash currently approximately $900 million.
To improve flexibility in order to better handle the various uncertainties the company faces we have also decided to increase our targeted cash balance to between $3 billion and $4 billion excluding the Aker restricted cash included in other assets.
Even in the event uncertainty such as Macondo is resolved we do not believe this is prudent to reduce our available cash to below $1.5 billion.
To support these targets the Board has decided to focus our 2012 available cash and cash flow on retiring debt as it matures and on building fast liquidity.
In addition to maturing debt we plan to also retire early $300 billion to $500 billion of other debt.
Absent A asset sales we expect our cash by the end of the year to be between $2.7 billion and $3 billion.
Proceeds from the asset sale initiatives that Steven has discussed will allow us to build additional liquidity beyond this level.
And with that I will hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Greg and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
From a marketing standpoint 2011 was a very positive year for Transocean from many perspectives.
We began the year with 35 stacked jackups successfully returned seven to active service and sold six units.
Consistent with our asset strategy we added four premium jackups with combined day rates in term that are still leading edge for newbuilds even in today's improving market.
We acquired two harsh-environment semis from Aker Drilling that are delivering operational excellence to our customers.
We added two ultra-deepwater drillships under construction in Korea that are being considered for several long-term opportunities.
We also executed a total of $6.7 billion of contract backlog during 2011.
Since the last earnings call we have executed $1.1 billion of contract backlog during a relatively quiet holiday season.
Over 60% of the total contract backlog awarded since the last earnings call is related to our jackup fleet.
While the global economic uncertainty still lingers our major customers' capital spending budget for 2012 pertains a year-on-year increase averaging around 12% to 15%.
The availability of ultra-deepwater rigs for 2012 is very constrained and our customers are now shifting their focus to fulfilling their longer-term requirements for 2013 and beyond.
Tendering and contracting activity in the deepwater market was light for the fourth quarter; however we expect some long-term fixtures to be announced shortly in Australia and in Brazil where Petrobras' current 1 200 meter and 1 500 meter tenders are ready to absorb additional units.
Midwater activity is holding firm and demand improved over the period especially in the U.K.
and India.
Apparent demand for harsh-environment semis in the U.K.
and Norway exceeds available supply and we expect upward pressure on pricing in these markets.
Premium and standard jackups continue to enjoy an increasing utilization and day rates over the previous quarter and strong demand is leading to the reactivation of some of the world's idle standard jackups.
Demand continues to improve in Southeast Asia India West Africa Saudi Arabia and Mexico and we expect the newbuilds arriving in the market in '12 to be fully absorbed.
Let's now look at the various market segments beginning with ultra-deepwater.
Limited availability in 2012 is pushing rates up quickly as evidenced by a few fixtures for short-term programs about $600 000 a day level.
With the increase in demand in the Golden Triangle which includes expected near-term demand resulting from significant discoveries in the Angolan presalt Northern Brazil and East Africa in addition to the current outstanding tenders that remained unfulfilled we're very optimistic that we will be able to extend contracts on our available fleet through 2012 and 2013.
We are in advanced discussions on our units available in '12 and expect to conclude these discussions at attractive rates.
Interest continues to build for the two DSME designed ultra-deepwater drillship under construction with our customers in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico West Africa and Brazil.
We've remain confident about the future of the ultra-deepwater market and our ability to capitalize on the many opportunities available in the marketplace.
Turning to the deepwater market tendering and contracting activity was a bit lighter compared to the previous quarter with most activity occurring in Australia and Brazil.
However we see demand improving in this segment due to the continuing tightness in the ultra-deepwater market and we are offering our available units for multiple opportunities.
Petrobras is also expected to issue another tender for its deepwater needs in the near future.
This opportunity coupled with open demand should tighten the deepwater market over the next few months.
Indicative of this positive market sentiment we have been able to execute an estimated eight-month contract for the Discoverer Seven Seas a thousand-foot drillship at $445 000 a day with ENI in Indonesia.
In the midwater floater market contracting activity in the North region and U.K.
sectors of the North Sea continues to reduce available capacity through 2012 and 2013 and exert upper pressure on pricing.
Little supply remains in the U.K.
North Sea for 2012 commencement and with the influx of development programs.
We expect to see increasing term that will further tighten supply in the U.K.
With multiple operators trying to secure the same units we believe that stacked units will return to the active fleet during the upcoming years.
Since our last call we've been able to secure an additional 3.5 rig years in the midwater class with dayrates ranging from $260 000 to $280 000 a day.
Based on our current discussions with multiple operators in Norway to U.K West Africa and Southeast Asia we will be able to secure further contracting opportunities through 2012 and 2013 at improving dayrates.
Moving to the jackup market the tendering and contracting pace for premium and standard jackups continues to strengthen.
Utilization in dayrates are on the rise is evident by the lower-specification jackups receiving rates around the $130 000 a day in West Africa.
In this improved market environment and since our last earnings call we have been able to secure multiple contracts across our jackup fleet of approximately 16 rig years with dayrates ranging from $83 000 a day for lower-spec jackups to a $143 000 a day for the premium unit.
Most notably we were able to execute a contract with Chevron in Angola for the delivery of a fourth newbuild jackup for a three-year term at a $149 100 per day.
We are confident that the additional demand from our customers for premium extended jackups will lead to further contract extensions for our active fleet and provide opportunities to reactivate more of our stacked assets.
In conclusion we are experiencing strong demand across all markets segments in all major oil and gas provinces and emerging markets which reinforces our view that utilization and day rates will continue to improve.
The versatility and global footprints of our fleet positioned us to enhance our customer relationships by providing them with the optimal asset solutions for their future programs.
That concludes my overview on the market so I'll turn it back to you Steven.
With that operator we're ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Ian MacPherson with Simmons &amp; Company.
It sounds like that the demand for the middles are certainly progressing very nicely but circling back to the cost guidance and I think you indicated Greg that we had cost assumed for the reactivation of the High Island IX.
Should we prefer that there are not other reactivation costs in that guidance for floaters? And how is the outlook progressing for reactivation prospects in the conventional Deepwater fleet? All we have in the numbers are the reactivation cost for the High Island IX.
So as other reactivations are planned during the year if they are planned we'll include those in any future updated cost guidance.
So right now it just includes the one jackup.
And Terry's got comment on prospects for reactivations.
Ian just to add a little bit more color we are getting a lot of interest in the stacked fleet as you would guess.
So while they're not in the cost guidance we do believe we'll have several opportunities over the next few quarters to be able to reactivate some of our Deepwater and also our continuing jackup fleet.
And that would also include the midwaters.
We have opportunity possibly for one in the near future.
How would you characterize the lead times for your further reactivations if you were to get a contract for one today.
Will it these be something you could rolled out in more two months or four five months? It's going to be closer to latter Ian rather then the former.
Generally the reactivation projects on the stocked floaters that we have are going to be relatively longer term in nature compared to some of the reactivations opportunities we have on some of our jackups.
So think four to six months is a minimum.
And then Steven if you don't mind just one more quick question.
Any reassessment with your self on the board with regards to the assets strategy and the aversion to building spec rigs sea drillers as ordered two more this morning.
And it seems plausible that we're going to have something of a replay of last year with your competitors going down that path.
And I wonder if you're still comfortable with the strategy that's been emplaced of not doing that.
I tend to revert back to the same things we've always talked about Ian.
We've recognized fundamentally we're in the supply demand business and a cyclical industry.
And I think we're going to continue to hold to the principles and the philosophies that have stood this company very well over the course of the cycles we've been through.
That sounds like middle change full stop? We remain averse to the idea of building on spec.
And we'll take our next question from Doug Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just wanted to touch based on the Macondo loss contingencies where are the assumptions associated with insurance there and could more or what could you apply to that potentially? As you can see more fully described in our 10-K there are no additional insurance accruals that have been applied to the $1 billion.
We do have recorded about $374 million of assets related to insurance that those relate to previous losses that we've recorded related to Macondo.
There is a little more than $600 million remaining in our insurance tower.
But under the U.S.
GAAP rules it's very complex to determine how much of that could be recorded against the contingent loss like we've recorded in the quarter.
And so we're not able to determine the amount of any additional asset that we could record at the U.S.
GAAP.
But we would expect overtime to be some insurance recoveries.
And then taking a look at the cost side notice that the average out-of-service cost for the ultra-deepwater fleet jumped up pretty substantially in the course to almost $640 000 a day from $490 000 a day in the third quarter.
The out-of-service days were relatively similar.
I understand that you're expecting less the ultra-deepwater fleet to be out-of-service in 2012.
But is this indicative of the out-of-service time and cost I guess really that we should be expecting going forward or is there anything specific in the fourth quarter that might have accounted for that jump? The in-service daily operating cost is always a fairly volatile number because that can be heavily impacted by some major maintenance projects that occur during the quarter.
So we like to look at the trailing average for the average of the last fourth quarters.
And looking at average of the last four quarters to what we expect the average to be next year for the fleet as a whole we expect to see about a 6% increase in that average daily operating cost.
Now that's not 6% from the fourth quarter and the first quarter that's 6% average-over-average year-over-year so that will trend in during the quarters.
But again it is very volatile and so it can be impacted by major maintenance projects and other activities like that.
And just to clarify that was for the in-service cost it's correct? That's right.
Any commentary on the out-of-service costs which seems to jump up in the fourth quarter? Sure we expect our total out-of-service cost next year to drop by about $500 million versus this year with the significant decrease in out-of-service time as well as the decrease in the higher risk BOP recertification efforts.
So in our cost guidance we would expect at the low-end of the range to see that $500 million cost reduction.
Now that is the most volatile so at the higher-end of the range we won't necessarily see much of a decrease.
And we will take our next question from Scott Gruber with Bernstein Asset Management.
Could you provide some color on what compelled the goodwill impairment? Did they reflect a change in assumptions or regarding reactivation potential or a return to peak jackup pricing? Just adding contrast to the strengthening of market fundamentals here.
Yes.
Unfortunately the goodwill impairment under U.S.
GAAP is very mechanical and we elected probably 12 years ago when the new rules came into effect to evaluate our goodwill on October 1.
And so on October 1 is when we have to evaluate all the various market conditions and all the uncertainties including the Macondo well uncertainties the operational uncertainties that we were experiencing in the fourth quarter.
So all of those went into our evaluation of the contract drilling business and really all the same factors that impacted our stock price in our market capitalization in the fourth quarter end up reflected in our valuation of the contract drilling business.
So when we compare that we go through an allocation process and come up with the implied value of goodwill that's really a point in time I always view it as if you look back at our market cap at the time and you compared to our net book value you would see our market cap is way below our net book value.
Now it's a much more complicated process than that simple calculation.
But essentially it's the same.
It has nothing to do with our view of the future of our fleet.
It's really a varied mechanical valuation exercise.
And then an unrelated follow-up is the new BOP unit exchange strategy is that going to require having some backup systems in place and ready for deployment? I'm not sure why would call them backup systems Scott or just an inventory of capital spares right across our fleet.
So really the exercise is one of identifying how many of this particular make and model we have what the outlook is for the five yearly recertification process for those rigs carrying that particular make and model and ensuring that the company has enough capital spares in inventory to be able to have a rotational program across that particular make and model.
So it's going to be more parts in inventory rather than full systems? Correct.
And we'll take our next question from Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
I was hoping to get just a little more clarity on the $1 billion contingent liability that you recorded? Can you help us separate the company's total liabilities into a couple of buckets? One what are the probable exposures that are attempted to be estimated by the $1 billion? And then what are the reasonably probable exposures that are above and beyond? What's left after the billion dollars that you've estimated so far? If you look at our balance sheet if you look into our 10-K we actually have $1.2 billion of liability recorded related to the Macondo well incident.
The $200 million has built up really since the incident primarily related to the crew claims and other similar liabilities.
So the additional $1 billion we evaluated under FAS 5.
And so FAS 5 requires us to evaluate all the facts and developments that occur during a period.
And if we believe we can determine a reasonably possible range of losses than we are required to approve the low-end of the range of those losses.
So that range of losses that make up the $1 billion again isn't related to crew claims it's related to all the other losses from litigation that could come at the Macondo well incident.
And because that is active litigation we really can't go into to the details of the various components of those losses.
But it's really everything else.
All the litigation losses all the things are going to be covered by the trial that starts a weak from today so all of those losses are included in setting that low-end of the range.
Now we will continuously evaluate developments as they occur.
And if possible future developments could cause us to adjust that evaluation as the low-end of the range.
And in addition to you not being able to record any insurance benefit against that billion it also appears there has been no tax deduction.
And I'm unsure given your Swiss status.
If it were $1 billion expenditure would you be able to deduct that for tax purposes from U.S.
operations? No.
We're currently assuming due to the possible nature of the various components of that that there would be little to no tax deduction for that provision.
And we'll take our next question from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
I guess my initial question for you guys is Steven you guys talked about having three different buckets of assets in determining your disposition strategy.
And I was wondering if you might be able to give us an update on first those buckets? Secondly whether or not the cost estimates related to the buckets may have shifted? And then just the other component to that question as it relates to the buckets is given the market dynamic here have some of the assets kind of shifted around a bit and are there as many assets for sale as you thought there may have been? Are you talking about our asset strategy or the reactivation candidates? I think I am talking I am thinking about it all inclusive manner.
And I know you have referenced that the ideal assets that you put in different buckets in the past.
I think there are three different buckets you put them into I think there is some cost estimates related to that.
And I am just wondering if you can just give us an update on if anything has changed as a market dynamic causing you to pull some of those assets off the market.
Would you please give us an update on that if you can that'll be great? So as we think about the opportunities for reactivation Kurt I generally think about the stacked fleet in three different buckets.
There is a group of assets that I think make relatively straight forward reactivation candidates whether they are jackups or floaters it's about a third of the fleet that I think can be reactivated in a relatively straight forward manner.
So if you're talking jackups these were projects that probably are 60 to 90 to 120 days and maybe $20 million for reactivation expenditure.
On the floater side as I mentioned earlier it's going to be a little bit longer that maybe four to six months in terms of reactivations and the reactivation expenditures going to be in the range of $50 million.
There is another third at the other end of the spectrum that are not likely to work for us again but still make attractive divestiture candidates.
We've sold the couple of those in 2011.
We'll continue to focus on divestiture opportunities in 2011.
And then there is a third in the middle they are reactivation candidates.
And as Terry has explained the market is getting better out there.
Activities increasing demand is increasing.
Term and day rate is increasing.
And all that provides economics that are more supportive of further reactivation possibilities.
And in the context of the market improving Terry where would you characterize the current market dynamic when you think about it in pretty Macondo terms would you equate it to 2006 2007 2005.
What's your best approximation? Well Kurt you don't feel a whole lot like 2006 and 2007.
If we just looking at the ultra-deep water activity if you look at the what's evitable in the market and then what we know that is being considered and close to being contracted at 2012 and 2013 and we kind of get a number that looks around six-day rigs left in the ultra-deepwater space.
And then if we look at the deepwater segment we put the same pencil there and that's assuming that some of these rigs get rolled over with their existing customer.
So we kind of get the same numbers six to eight rigs in the deepwater space that's you know active fleet.
And we all know there is heck of a lot of demand out there.
If we look at West Africa alone I think that there is a recent study done and it said they need 20 more rigs in 2012.
And that doesn't include the recent discovery for the Angolan pre-salt.
So we're very optimistic about 2012 and 2013.
And like I said it does feel a whole lot like the scenario that we saw in 2006 and 2007.
We mentioned on the jackup side you think all the new builds will be absorbed in by 2013? Well with the rigs that are coming to the market we can see that there is a lot of demand there that we believe that will be absorbed and especially when you have Saudi out there trying to actively fulfill their needs.
And then you have Pemex.
I know they're going to get back up to 40 rigs.
And ONGC has been very very active.
We see that the demand is very tight.
We're seeing an opportunity for our class-3 bucket low commodity spec jackups the one in particular the High Island IX.
It just received a three-year contract with Saudi.
So the demand is certainly picking up and if you look at over the last 12 months the biggest increase in day rate has been the old standard jackup.
So as the ultra-deep water increase over the same time period from day rate pricing to about 23% and the old jackups have increased around 30%.
So it's very interesting and we believe that is going to continue.
And one more if I may Steven I believe it was last fall there is some questions about the new Brazilian rigs and I think there was some discussion as well that some of those new rigs may actually lined up in the hands of the traditional rig operators.
Can you give us an update on what may be transpiring in Brazil? I know you may not want to go out and build the rig on spec isn't dying one of these Brazilian rigs or getting an interest in one of these Brazilian rigs or getting an interest in one of these Brazilian rigs essentially a way to get a contracted rig in hand and take down the upfront risk.
Could you give us an update on that? Kurt we remained interested in growing our business in Brazil and further developing our relationship with Petrobras.
And so we continue to have conversations with our colleagues at Petrobras about exactly how to do that.
We'd be interested in having discussions about helping them in terms of taking over the operator ship and buying it into the equity ownership of some of the rig they've already contracted that they are looking to place in the hands of experienced operators.
And have those discussions been happening or are they yet to happen? I would say it's more of a continuous dialogue with Petrobras then an episodic or discreet dialogue.
And we will take our next question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
First Steven congratulations on the encouraging rulings on the court so far it's certainly good to see.
I'll tell you I think we have an excellent legal team.
And they've done a superb job of arguing the merits of our case.
It's nice to see the contracts honored.
The first question I have is as you just spoke briefly on the dividend.
Could you give us some thoughts there as far as the importance of the dividend to Transocean going forward and what is the possibility or probability that that could be reinstated in 2013? Well I'll tell you Angie I think the company has a long history of being really disciplined about how we think about reinvestments.
We have always set really high criteria for ourselves.
And there are times when we take some criticism in the marketplace for holding to those criteria when we won't build on specs.
So we've been disciplined about our reinvestment criteria.
And I think we've been similarly disciplined about our historical approach to returning excess cash to our shareholders.
So that capital deployment philosophy hasn't change.
We remained focused on a strong balance sheet and in investment grade quality debt on identifying attractive opportunities to reinvest in our business and being disciplined about returning excess cash to our shareholders.
And we will continue to engage our board in discussions in evaluations of our business in the context to that capital deployment philosophy.
And then you discussed in various forms a potential spin or sale of some of your older jackups.
And I believe our bank may have been hire to run this process.
Is this a possibility or an event that could potentially occur in 2013? Well as I said in my commentary Angie we remain focused on executing our asset strategy.
We want to increase our exposure to high-spec assets and reduce our exposure to low-spec commodity class assets.
We've done a good job.
In 2011 we generated more than $440 million in asset sales proceeds.
We continue to explore a variety of alternatives including single asset transactions which are asset divestiture folks are getting really good at.
We have had discussions over the last several months about packages of assets and we remain interested in a single large scale transaction if we can make it work.
Terry given the fact that we're delivering 23 ultra-deepwater rigs in 2013 of which most are still uncontracted but certainly some positive data points in West Africa and elsewhere your thoughts on ability to absorb those rigs in 2013 and the day rate outlook at the same time in 2013 for the ultra-deepwater market.
Angie I think that if we roll back to 2012 for a second I think with the availability and there is not a whole lot left you're going to see some of these short-term fixtures continuing.
I think they're going to be over $600 000 a day.
Now we know that 2013 is an inflect but we see opportunities that are already developing.
We are having conversations certainly with the new news of the Angolan presalt.
We're already getting discussions there.
So it looks very promising.
And if we are having discussions I have to think that our competitors out there are also having discussions.
So I think that's why you see a brilliant movement here and there that everyone is very optimistic about the 2012 and 2013.
So I think they're going to be absorbed and I think we're going to have plenty of opportunities certainly to place the units and we're certainly hopeful that that belief is down into the deepwater segment also.
So again we're very optimistic and I'm very confident of our talented marketing teams in the field to get these things done quickly.
We'll take our last question from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Back to the midwater market again that's clearly where you have the most open exposure over the next 12 months.
And with vacancy that's really on the three ultra-deepwater rigs available over that period that you have won.
So assuming that these rigs settle in the $600 000 where do you see that you have the biggest pricing power on your midwater fleet? Is it in benign environment because of the very strong demand and very high rates likely to see in the sixth generation segment or is it more in the areas like the North Sea which are coming back again? Just talking about the midwater fleet in the U.K.
we are seeing strong demand and we have several opportunities to roll our fleet over here shortly.
And we're very optimistic about those opportunities and we have multiple customers who are asking for the same units.
So we are very optimistic about that.
We have six available in 2012 in our active fleet and we are in discussions on all of those rigs at the moment.
And these are very positive advanced discussions.
So we like what we see in the midwater opportunities for 2012.
You highlighted 2006-2007 and I think we all remember very well what happened in the midwater segment during that period.
It was probably the most dynamic segment.
So how close do you think we can get to old highs or let's say how close can we get as a percentage of leading edge high-spec rig rates? I think if you look at 2007 as a marker you'd have to say that we're there.
So if in 2007 we were approaching $550 000 a day it's what we accomplished.
And today you're already seeing the fixtures $550 000 to $600 000 a day.
So I would argue that we're there.
Now where we're lagging as you pointed out is as soon as we get a little bit more tightness in the ultra-deepwater segment then we do believe the optionality exists for the standard deepwaters and the midwaters to improve.
They're not there yet but in the next couple of months I think we're going to see significant improvement.
And again I feel the same way about the premium jackups and the standard jackups.
If I look at your efficiency conventional wisdom I'd suggest that older rigs have a lower uptime.
But when we look at your fleet your harsh environment there are some of the older rigs and your midwater floaters represent some of the older rigs.
Both have utilization of 94% to 98% which is very good compared to your ultra-deepwater and deepwater at say 88% 89% utilization.
So can you talk a little bit about how come that older rigs have a better uptime than modern rigs? Ole it just has to do with the complexity of the controls systems.
The older rigs tend to work in shallower water depths and they tend to utilize simple hydraulic control systems for their BOPs.
What that means Ole is there is just fewer components in the system that are susceptible to the stress of working in deeper waters the rigor of repeated testing and the low tolerance for failure rates.
It's just a question of the complexity of the control system.
Does the process means that when the midwater market comes back again the execution risk for you should be a little lower than in the deepwater? Broadly speaking I think that's true.
All right.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you all very much for your participation.
We'll be available offline if you have any additional questions.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to the Transocean Q1 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Priscilla.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
A copy of the press release providing our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
We've also posted a file containing 3 charts that may be referenced during today's call.
This file can be found on the company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint charts.
The charts include average contracted dayrates by rig type out-of-service rig months and operating and maintenance cost trends.
The Quarterly Toolkit includes 4 additional financial tables for your convenience covering revenue efficiency other revenue detail daily operating and maintenance cost by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me on this morning's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Greg Cauthen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steve I'd like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results and the prospects for the contract drilling business.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it's inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand and operational and other risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Reg G.
As I indicated earlier you will find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and thank you all for joining us today.
Before I comment on the quarter I'd like to make some introductory comments on the market.
The outlook for offshore drillers is positive based upon strong market fundamentals.
With crude oil consistently trading in a range between $100 a barrel for WTI and $120 a barrel for Brent global commodity prices remain in a range that we believe is supportive of our customers' project economics.
Dwindling available capacity in most rig categories should support increasing dayrate trends in our business.
There is very little remaining ultra-deepwater availability in 2012 and operators are already urgently focused on securing 2013 capacity.
This should have a further beneficial impact on the conventional deepwater and midwater markets as any supply overhang which might have existed as a result of rigs competing down the water depth spectrum should be a thing of the past.
New discoveries such as Maersk's Azul-1 well and Cobalt's Cameia-1 well in the Angolan pre-salt have added to the excitement regarding West Africa.
ENI's commitment to invest $50 billion and Anadarko's recent success with the Barquentine-4 appraisal well in Mozambique are contributing to East Africa's emergence as a fast-growing petroleum province.
Further successes by Petrobras OGX and others in Brazil and Anadarko Shell Exxon Mobil Chevron and others in the Gulf of Mexico suggest significant growth opportunities in these well-established markets.
Recent conversations with customers in India and the Far East show continuing interest in those markets as well.
In short we're seeing a global increase in demand for all classes of drilling rigs.
Transocean is extremely well positioned to benefit from this positive market environment.
First and foremost our people are among the best in the industry and continue to set us apart from our competitors and I thank the Transocean personnel around the world for their continuing efforts to achieve our vision.
Our rigs and equipment reflect our focus on quality and technology our demanding expectations and our objective to continue to lead our industry.
Our size and geographic diversity give us critical mass in every key market around the world.
Our customer relationships are strong due to our ability to meet their drilling needs in all water depths and environments.
Our ability to perform in challenging environments is evidenced by the multiple instances of Transocean rigs involved in relief well operations following problems encountered on non-Transocean operations.
We have 3 such relief well operations ongoing right now.
All of these factors taken together set Transocean apart in an industry with very favorable fundamental market tailwinds.
Since our last call we have had a couple of key successes.
First we secured a contract at an industry-leading dayrate for the Deepwater Expedition.
Many of you will remember that this rig's prior contract was terminated at the end of 2011 following extended downtime related to the BOP control system.
We have continued to focus on identifying the root causes of the downtime and ensuring that the rig is ready to go back to work.
Secondly the Transocean Honor the first of 4 premium jackups to be delivered from the shipyard is in the final stages of customer acceptance on location for Chevron in Angola.
These 2 events are noteworthy because they highlight the value of our existing fleet and demonstrate our commitment to execute our asset strategy.
Now on to the numbers.
For the first quarter we reported net income of $0.12 per diluted share.
These results include net unfavorable items totaling $184 million or $0.52 per diluted share including the finalization of our goodwill impairment which had been estimated as part of our fourth quarter 2011 results.
Considering these items adjusted earnings were $0.64 per diluted share.
Our strong earnings results this quarter were mainly driven by lower operating and maintenance costs resulting from 2 key drivers: the timing of major maintenance and project spending and lower activity in our low margin drilling management services segment.
Greg will discuss each of these items in more detail shortly.
Additionally we continue to focus on cost control and the management of our cost structure.
At 90.4% our revenue efficiency in the first quarter was below the fourth quarter's 91.9% with the drop being driven mainly by our Deepwater and Midwater rigs.
We were pleased to see our Ultra-Deepwater fleet which reported inconsistent revenue efficiency results in 2011 remain roughly in line with the fourth quarter's performance.
It is still our expectation that we reach historical levels of revenue efficiency through a combination of technical improvements and over time improved contract terms although as I have said our progress will not necessarily be linear.
Our focus on operational and project excellence continues to be critical to our success.
Improved performance in operations measured most readily by revenue efficiency will only come through continued emphasis on thorough equipment inspections enhanced maintenance and rigorous pre-deployment testing.
Our success in project excellence measured by utilization and our ability to manage out-of-service time is a direct result of closer cooperation with our vendors to improve capacity planning quality control and more timely delivery.
As I mentioned on our last call we have also taken steps to remove the BOP recertification process from the critical path to redelivery of rigs from the shipyard.
Initial results on projects executed using our improved process show very promising progress in our ability to manage out-of-service time.
While improving our operating performance is our first priority we have not lost sight of the importance of executing our asset strategy.
So far this year we have succeeded in closing sales transactions on 4 of our standard jackups resulting in $130 million in proceeds.
With additional transactions in the works I am confident in our ability to meet our 2012 objective of $500 million to $1 billion in asset sales proceeds and reduce our exposure to commodity class assets.
To this end we have begun the process of restructuring our remaining standard jackup fleet into an independent operating unit that will allow us to better serve our customers as well as provide us with the flexibility to more efficiently take advantage of any opportunity to reduce our exposure to this non-core segment of our fleet.
The third key element of our corporate strategy after improving our operating results and executing our asset strategy is the resolution of Macondo.
While the civil trial has been adjourned indefinitely pending the review and approval of the BP-PSC settlement we continue to prepare to defend the company's position in court.
This includes the possibility that we will face criminal charges by the Department of Justice.
We are still interested in finding an acceptable resolution that allows us to put all of the remaining uncertainty behind us.
And we have had conversations with various Macondo-related parties in pursuit of this objective.
However in the absence of an acceptable resolution we are well prepared to argue the merits of our case in court whether in a civil or criminal context.
In summary we are very encouraged by the strong market fundamentals and our position in the market and the progress we have made to improve our operational performance globally.
As we move forward in this improving marketplace we remain focused on following through on our key commitments to you.
We will continue to execute on our initiatives with the objective of improving the company's operating results.
We will execute the company's asset strategy to ensure that Transocean remains an industry leader and we will vigorously defend the company's interests.
With that I will turn the call over to Greg to take you through the numbers.
Greg? Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
As Steven mentioned we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of approximately $42 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the first quarter 2012.
Excluding approximately $184 million in certain net unfavorable items our diluted earnings were $0.64 per share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings of $0.18 per diluted share in the fourth quarter 2011.
Net unfavorable items include an additional noncash charge of $118 million for completing the goodwill impairment related to our contract drilling reporting unit for we -- for which we recognized an estimated impairment of $5.2 billion in the fourth quarter 2011.
Net unfavorable items also included a noncash charge of $62 million after taxes for an intangible asset impairment associated with our drilling management services reporting unit.
This impairment was due to the declining market outlet for these services in the shallow water of the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico as well as the increased regulatory environment for obtaining drilling permits and the diminishing demand for these services.
As a result of these conditions we have decided to exit the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico in order to focus our drilling management efforts primarily on the North Sea and emerging markets in Asia and West Africa where we see greater opportunity.
The remaining net unfavorable items are as follows: $17 million of impairment of the GSF Rig 136 which was sold during the quarter; $16 million of other losses primarily from the loss of sale of Challenger Minerals (North Sea) Limited and an impairment of our U.S.
oil and gas properties; and $29 million of favorable discrete tax items.
Revenue for the quarter decreased by $91 million to approximately $2.3 billion.
$48 million of the decrease was due to lower revenue efficiency which declined to 90.4% from 91.9% in the fourth quarter.
Additionally reduced activity in our drilling management services reporting unit resulted in a decline of an additional $49 million of revenues from the fourth quarter.
First quarter operating and maintenance expenses of $1.41 billion decreased by $155 million compared to the fourth quarter excluding the $1 billion loss contingency.
Approximately $70 million of the decrease in operating and maintenance costs was due to net lower costs recognized on rigs ongoing shipyard maintenance repair and equipment certification projects during the quarter which were predominantly timing related either due to delayed shipyards or deferred costs.
The remainder of the decline in operating and maintenance costs was due to the nonrecurrence of approximately $35 million related to the fourth quarter 2011 termination of the Deepwater Expedition contract and approximately $40 million related to the decreased activity in the company's low margin drilling management services reporting unit.
Excluding the net unfavorable items I've described first quarter operating income of $498 million increased by 25% compared to the fourth quarter as reduced operating and maintenance costs more than offset the revenue shortfall from revenue efficiency.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized was $180 million compared to $178 million in the fourth quarter.
The effective tax rate of 24.7% in the first quarter increased from negative 2.2% in the fourth quarter primarily due to the significant reduction in the goodwill and other intangible asset impairments recognized in the first quarter as compared to the fourth quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $351 million in the first quarter compared to $374 million in the prior quarter.
The $23 million decrease was due mainly to assets that are now fully depreciated and the impact of standard jackups classified as held for sale or sold.
General and administrative expenses were $69 million for the first quarter compared to $88 million in the previous quarter including $1 million and $17 million respectively associated with the Aker Drilling acquisition.
Net cash flow generated from operations declined to $540 million in the quarter compared to $563 million in the fourth quarter due primarily to an increase in cash used by working capital partially offset by better operating result.
Capital expenditures totaled $260 million in the first quarter down from $350 million in the fourth quarter due to the timing of shipyard milestone payments associated with our newbuild construction program.
Additionally we paid the fourth and final installment of our dividend in the amount of $278 million to our shareholders.
Net cash on hand was about $4 billion into the first quarter generally consistent with the fourth quarter.
I would like to now update our full year 2012 guidance which remains on the whole consistent with our previous call.
As reported on our last Fleet Status Report we continue to expect a large concentration of our 2012 out-of-service days to occur in the second quarter.
Although our first quarter revenues were partially impacted by some 2011 shipyard overruns all these older shipyards are now complete and the rigs are back to work.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic on our remaining 2012 out-of-service time forecast due to better execution of the shipyard projects we commenced following the implementation of our improved shipyard planning and execution processes.
That said we advise caution as it's not uncommon for unplanned or exceptional major shipyards to significantly increase our out-of-service time.
We are not able to predict such exceptional shipyards and they consequently are not included on our Fleet Status Reports.
Our expectations that shipyard activity will decline in the second half of the year is unchanged.
However the lower level of shipyard activity expected in the second half of the year is not representative of what we expect in future years.
Our future shipyard activity will more closely resemble our long-term average shipyard activity.
Despite the lower first quarter revenue efficiency compared to the fourth quarter we still project that our average revenue efficiency during 2012 will be similar to that experienced in the fourth quarter of around 92% with the actual amount varying by quarter.
We expect a gradual improvement over time but it is possible it may take several years to achieve our historical levels of performance as we continue efforts both technical and contractual to accomplish this goal.
We now expect our other revenues to be between $470 million and $500 million for the full year 2012 which represents a decrease from our prior guidance of $625 million to $650 million as a result of our recent decision to exit drilling management services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Please remember that our other revenues generate fairly low margin generally in the mid to high single-digit range.
Our operating and maintenance cost guidance for 2012 remains between $6.15 billion and $6.35 billion.
An expected decrease in costs associated with our reduced drilling management services activity is completely offset by an increase in other costs the majority of which relate to rig reactivations.
During the year we now expect to incur an additional $90 million of costs related to reactivating and operating the High Island IX the Galaxy I and one additional jackup and for long lead time expenses in relation to potentially reactivating the Transocean Richardson and the Discoverer 534.
Although we expect the total number of our out-of-service days to be lower in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter as reported in our Fleet Status Report we expect an increase in the number of planned out-of-service projects in the second quarter and expected 35 rigs without a service projects versus 26 in the first quarter as well as an increase in the cost of these out-of-service projects primarily due to the type of project in the work scope.
We also expect to incur approximately $50 million more in the second quarter than the first quarter related to the previously discussed reactivations.
Furthermore we anticipate an increase in maintenance on our operating rigs in the second quarter compared to the first quarter levels.
Overall we expect second quarter operating and maintenance costs to be significantly higher than the first quarter primarily due to the expected increase in costs related to shipyards reactivations and maintenance on our operating rig.
We expect operating and maintenance costs for the third and fourth quarters to be higher than the first quarter but significantly lower than the second quarter as our expected level of shipyard activity decreases in the second half of the year.
We continue to focus on cost control and management of our cost structure.
Our guidance for the other items for 2012 is still the same as on our previous call.
To reiterate we expect depreciation expense for 2012 to be between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion; general and administrative costs expected to range between $270 million and $300 million; interest expense net of interest income is expected to be between $610 million and $630 million included -- including roughly $50 million of interest income and roughly $40 million of capitalized interest.
We expect that our annual effective tax rate for 2012 to be between 25% and 30%.
Our capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be between $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion with allocation consistent with our previous guidance.
Our target to reduce long-term debt to an amount between $7 billion and $9 billion and increase our cash balance to be between $3 billion and $4 billion also remains unchanged.
Both targets exclude the Aker export finance debt of approximately $850 million which is supported by a similar amount of restricted cash.
To support these targets we plan to continue to focus our 2012 available cash and cash flow on retiring debt as it matures with the expectation that our Series C convertible notes will be put to us in December.
In April we retired early $375 million of other debt in line with our guidance provided in the prior call.
With that I'll hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Greg and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
From a marketing standpoint 2012 started as positively as 2011 ended.
Robust commodity pricing continues to drive improving levels of contracting opportunities for all asset classes within our drilling fleet for the remainder of this year and well into 2013.
We have executed $1.6 billion in contracts thus far for 2012 and have over $2.5 billion more in the pipeline.
Since the last earnings call we have executed $1.1 billion of contract backlog.
Utilization and dayrates are continuing to improve and have reached levels not seen since the last cycle.
In this extremely tight market we secured our last available Ultra-Deepwater drillship the Deepwater Expedition for a 2-year firm term at a leading-edge dayrate of $650 000 a day with 3 8-month options at $695 000 a day plus a substantial mobilization fee.
Additionally we have extended our Harsh-Environment Ultra-Deepwater semi the Transocean Spitsbergen for 2 years at $543 000 per day in Norway.
Tendering and contracting activity in the deepwater market is also increasing with several fixtures recently announced by our competitors with rates over the mid-400s.
We expect to report more positive news in the near future regarding our own fleet with outstanding opportunities in Australia West Africa and Southeast Asia.
Midwater activities continue to improve especially in the U.K.
and Norway.
Multiple tenders for longer-term exploration and development programs have further improved an already tight market.
We expect this improving demand for Harsh-Environment semis in the U.K.
and Norway will further improve pricing in these markets.
Demand for premium and standard jackups continues to increase resulting in higher global utilization and dayrates that has led to further reactivation of some of the world's idle standard jackups.
Key areas of demand are Southeast Asia India West Africa Saudi Arabia and Mexico and we expect the newbuilds arriving in the market in 2012 to be fully absorbed.
Now let's take a little deeper look at the various market segments beginning with the ultra-deepwater market.
The tight ultra-deepwater market has resulted in pricing opportunities well above $600 000 a day for near-term markets as evidenced by our recent fixture.
The ultra-deepwater demand is further enhanced by continuing exploration successes in the Angolan pre-salt Northern Brazil and East Africa.
Additionally we believe that Petrobras will soon return to the market for their ultra-deepwater needs.
Their reentry will have a significant impact on the already tight near-term market conditions.
We are already in advanced discussions on our existing Ultra-Deepwater units available in late 2012 and beyond at very attractive rates.
Our confidence in the long-term future of the ultra-deepwater market has also been confirmed by the strong interest being shown by our customers in our 2 DSME-designed Ultra-Deepwater drillships under construction.
Turning to the deepwater market.
Tendering and contracting activity is showing improvement with a few impressive contracts being executed at dayrates of $460 000 to $490 000.
We expect to see more contracting opportunities in Australia and West Africa in the near term.
And we're confident our fleet will benefit from these opportunities.
Additionally with the tightening of the ultra-deepwater market demand for the deepwater will continue to improve.
We also expect Petrobras to issue a tender in the near future for up to 2 rigs to satisfy its deepwater requirements.
In the midwater floater market we see increasing demand in Norway and the U.K.
North Sea.
Based on inquiries received from our customers we believe that the market will continue to be undersupplied through 2014 and possibly well into 2014 -- '13 and '14 sorry about that.
Since our last call in late February we've been able to secure a new leading-edge contract at $350 000 -- $315 000 per day in the U.K.
We're confident in our ability to secure favorable rates for our available midwater capacity not only in the harsh environment markets but also in India and Southeast Asia where demand has also been increasing.
Moving to the jackup market.
Demand for premium jackup continues to grow.
Increased utilization has resulted in higher dayrates moving to $150 000 per day and beyond in West Africa and Southeast Asia.
The North Sea has also proven to be a hotspot for jackup activity which provided an opportunity for us to reactivate our last stacked HDHE jackup unit the GSF Galaxy I at $133 000 per day plus a lump sum reactivation fee.
This unit will be used as an accommodation unit.
Since our last earnings call we've been able to secure multiple contracts across our entire jackup fleet totaling around 5 rig years with dayrates ranging from $131 000 per day for the lower-spec jackups up to $153 000 a day for our premium units.
We're especially pleased to announce the fixture of one of our premium units GSF Monitor for one year at $153 000 a day in Nigeria.
Based on the strong market and request from our customers we anticipate that we'll be able to continue to reactivate our idle equipment.
In conclusion strong demand continues across all market segments in the major oil and gas provinces and emerging markets which reinforces our view that dayrates and utilization will continue to improve.
With the versatility and global footprint of our fleet we can provide our customers with the optimal asset solutions to execute their global programs.
That concludes my overview on the markets so I'll turn it back to you Steven.
With that Priscilla we're ready to open up the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So Greg on your operating cost guidance you mentioned that Q2 will be obviously higher than Q1.
Is it fair to assume that it would be closer to Q4 levels of one -- I think it was $1.56 billion? I think a rough rule of thumb a lot of the operating costs that were favorable in the first quarter were really timing related and a lot of those just flipped into the second quarter because of the shipyard delays and other items.
But then in addition as I talked about we've got another $50 million of reactivation costs that we had not -- were not in our plans on our last earnings call.
So really you're going to see that kind of increase we expect in the second quarter.
Now we'll caution you that's assuming all the shipyards we have planned for the second quarter stay on plan for the second quarter because a lot of times weather while in progress will delay shipyards and that's what we saw happen in the first quarter.
But right now our best guess is we do all the shipyards and that drives a significant increase in the second quarter.
And then it falls back for the rest of the year both as we do less shipyards and as our drilling management service activity declines during the year as we phase out the Gulf of Mexico operation.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then as a follow-up to that on the BOP recertification process is it still your assumption Steve or -- that it will be completed late 2013 or mid-2013? And are you seeing any improvements in the length of time to complete these BOP recertifications or the cost? I think in general Angie we're starting to see the benefits of the significant efforts that our OEM the pressure control OEMs have gone through over the last year or 18 months.
So over the course of the rest of the year we'll continue to see those benefits come into play.
It will take us beyond 2012 into 2013 and then we just get back into a routine of executing recertification as part of our normal 5-yearly SPS work.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then finally one for Terry real quick.
On the Deepwater Nautilus I saw that it's up for renewal here in August -- it's in the Gulf of Mexico will shell out a nice rate of $550 000 given the dynamics that we're seeing in the market today but assume its fair that we should see a modest bump in that rate and will that rig still stay with Shell or move elsewhere? Well what I can say today Angie is that we are in advanced discussions with Shell on the unit.
But since we haven't concluded a firm contract I'm really unable to give you a whole lot of specifics on it.
But I think in the very short term we're going to have some positive news.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Gruber with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to inquire about revenue efficiency in the nonlinear improvement trajectories you described Steven.
Are rig reactivations out of the shipyard holding back improvement in that revenue efficiency number? By holding back do you mean are they -- is the reactivation project a distraction from the operational efficiency efforts we're making? I would say categorically no.
There's enough technical talent focused on the efforts and the initiatives aimed at improving our revenue efficiency that a standard reactivation project doesn't really distract from that.
Did I get the essence of your question Scott? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Well I was actually focused on just the fact that putting these rigs back to service out of the yard may result in more interruptions during the first well versus continuing operation such that we just -- because of the number of shipyard reactivations that you're undertaking today may be holding back that revenue efficiency number some.
That's purely as a result of the calculus.
When you undertake a reactivation project there is always a focus on initial teething problems and break-in problems when the rig gets on location and goes to work.
But I'll tell you we have made dramatic improvements in what we call our ready-to-operate procedures that are designed to address exactly that.
That's all part of the pre-deployment testing that is a key component of our operational improvement efforts.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then turning to the market outlook.
Clearly strength across all segments.
But how would you describe the relative strength across the floating rig market? Are you seeing a -- is your ability to push rates greatest still at the high end? Is it now transferring down into the fourth gen or in the midwater? Scott I think that with the tremendous tightness in the near term that you're going to see the ability to leverage on the deepwater and the midwater and we're very confident that we will be able to push those rates up a bit.
And again it's because of the tightness that we're seeing in the deepwater -- the ultra-deepwater arena.
So they all -- so the answer is yes we will be able to leverage this tightness in the market to improve the rates in the other segment.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And how confident are you in your ability to push midwater rates outside of the North Sea? Going through the projects in the queue quite a lot of growth to come in the North Sea but we don't see a whole lot of growth outside of the North Sea so I was wondering if you could give a little bit color on non-North Sea and midwater.
Well we're starting to see some smaller players come into the non-North Sea markets that are showing some interest and moving into some activity in West Africa and also in Southeast Asia.
We do believe that we will be able to increase the rates for that fleet outside the North Sea.
And I think that in a couple -- in the very short term you're going to see some of our opportunities come to fruition and we'll be able to prove that up.
We'll go next to Kurt Hallead from RBC Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I am -- obviously the market dynamics are improving and have been improving for the better part of 6 to 9 months.
Given that indication Terry on your comments with respect to the marketplace I guess I am curious now.
It appears to me that the cycle here is evolving in a very similar way as it always has.
So in that context can you do some comparison and contrast? And suggest -- is it -- can you confirm that? That this is evolving in the same way that it always has? Are there elements that you think are different and better? Are there some things that we should not expect to see that we've seen in prior market cycles? So just to clarify this one last point.
You just mentioned that you expect to leverage what's going on with the ultra-deepwater with the deepwater and the midwater.
So is this going to be the classic cycle where the proverbial rising tide hits all boats? Or are some assets going to be left behind in this process? Kurt interesting question.
As we look back over the last cycle it feels a lot like that.
The one thing that I am seeing currently though the increase in the tendering activity feels a lot stronger.
And with that I can say that we are in serious discussions on quite a few of our Ultra-Deepwater units that didn't even go to tender.
So these are direct negotiation situations.
And then you see the significant open demand.
And I think if you do the count and run through the list you can see that the open demand is about 34 rigs in the Ultra-Deepwater segment alone.
If we add those years up it's over 100 years of term.
So with the open demand that doesn't account the demand that we are talking about privately and I know our competitors are also out there talking privately with their preferred customer base.
So that's why it feels a little bit different.
And then also we have to keep -- be aware of the tremendous amount of influx of newbuilds that are going to come to the market in '14.
So we can't ignore that dynamic either.
So we're going to have to see how this plays out but the market has been absorbing up to 20 Ultra-Deepwater units since 2007.
So it's been tremendous growth with this steady commodity price that has given the customers a lot of confidence.
With depletion of production and with all the new territories that are opening up we see that the outlook looks very supportive of continued absorption of this fleet.
So we're very optimistic and the discussions that we're having with the customers it's even going outside the boundaries of East Africa and the Angolan pre-salt.
We're now talking to our customers about opportunities in Mauritania and the Kara Sea in Uruguay.
So everyone is moving into a new dynamic based on the high oil prices that have continued to stimulate exploration in other territories that we've just begun to think about.
LLC Research Division</strong> There has been a perception in the marketplace last year in -- that the -- that more rigs were going to be essentially worthless and beached and so on and so forth.
So once again predicated on their commentary it looks like the operators are trying to get their hands on whatever rigs they can get their hands on irrespective of say the asset age and the capabilities.
I mean is that a fair comment? Yes I think that's a fair comment Kurt.
I mean this is my 30th year in the industry and I was on some of those rigs when they first came out and those girls can still drill.
So we're very optimistic about the opportunities that we're going to see quickly.
I'm excited about getting this.
I made that comment about the $2.5 billion pipeline.
We've got to work very hard.
Our marketing teams are out there working hard to get these things out of the pipeline and on the books.
We're very optimistic.
I think you're going to see a pretty positive story.
We'll prove up how these old girls can find some work.
We'll take our next question from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> At the risk of flogging the dead horse and some material we've already covered the expedition seemed like a pretty good rate for what was I think your worst ultra-deepwater asset 6 months ago.
So is that an anomaly with the scarcity in the market for Q4? Or is that the benchmark for rigs like the Nautilus and the DD1 and the Explorer that have open windows at the end of this year? I think you've got to look at availability in the market and match it with the program and urgency of the customer.
I don't think that we could paint that every opportunity out there right now is going to get $650 000 a day.
I mean let's look at what the competitors are announcing right now.
Of course we announce a little bit different than the competitors.
We announce a clean rate and our competitors sometimes co-mingle modes and bonuses in their numbers.
But I think if you look at a clean rate right now I think you're going to hover around $600 000 a day dependent upon the market that you're in.
So we all know that West Africa is a bit more expensive Brazil's a bit more expensive Gulf of Mexico is not as expensive.
So I think it's going to be dependent upon when we're going to be putting these rigs to work into '13 '14.
The prices are going to modulate accordingly with where we are in the market.
So I think it's not a hard standard.
But certainly with 2012 availability it looks like the number for the Ultra-Deepwater DP rigs are going to be around the $600 000 range.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then Terry or Steven or whomever could you help us with our expectations for the Richardson and the 534 with respect to timing and handicapping whether those rigs come out at a market dayrate or a discounted dayrate et cetera? Okay well I'll just take that one.
We are currently in a few tendering opportunities for Richardson.
So we're just waiting to see.
We believe that we will have some opportunities to bring the Richardson out.
And again it has to be the right opportunity because she is going to require significant upgrade to get her out.
But we're optimistic that in this incredibly tight market that we will be able to do that.
The 534 we're still looking for an opportunity.
Haven't found that yet.
But again we're going to scan the markets and look to see what we can do.
And we'll take our next question from Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Steven I just wanted to go back on the creation of a jackup Standard Jackup fleet.
I think I understand which rigs are going into that.
Can you just confirm which jackups are not going to be part of that entity? The starting point for that Robin is our asset strategy.
And so our desire to reduce our exposure to low spec commodity class assets.
The jackups that are characterized as low spec commodity class jackups will be essentially all of the standard jackups.
Research Division</strong> Oh okay.
All right.
That you classified all right.
Yes the way we report them on our Fleet Status Report.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And so in terms of just -- in terms of your desire to reactivate rigs within that class and spend money in doing so how does that work if you're looking to potentially divest that asset? Well it's a bit of a delicate balancing act.
We're trying to respond to the needs of the marketplace and meet the needs of our customers.
We're trying to create as much of a robust entity as possible so that when it does come time to divest ourselves of that entity there's working rigs in there with prompt cash flow that can sustain the ongoing business and that will even at that time likely to be some remaining idle capacity that would provide some long-term growth opportunities for the entity.
And we'll take our next question from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My question at first relates to the operating costs.
Now we noticed in the detail that very good detail that you provided about the daily operating costs for the working rigs that number did not change much from the fourth quarter levels.
We've been expecting some wage cost inflation and other materials inflation so we didn't see that.
Is that still to come? Do you have a different cycle in terms of wage increases? Or this is kind of going forward daily operating cost for the working rigs? A couple of drivers here.
Exactly right a lot of our wage increases occur in the second quarter.
Not all of them.
They vary around the world from country to country.
But a lot of them occur in the second quarter later in the year.
And also that it's very hard to compare one quarter to the preceding quarter because a lot of our daily operating costs are influenced by our maintenance -- our extraordinary maintenance projects.
So in the first quarter we tend to do fewer extraordinary maintenance projects because of budget cycles and weather in the North Sea and things like that.
So it's better to look at a rolling average.
So we still -- we talked about on the last call we still expect average year-over-year average daily operating cost to increase between 5% and 10% between wage inflation as well as maintenance inflation.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Another question on your second and third gen fleet do you have a number of rigs that may be due for 5-year service in that class in 2013? Just on average there would be about 1/5 of that fleet that would be due for its SPS in any one year.
That's just the way special periodic survey cycles work.
And we'll take our next question from Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steven just to kind of tack on to the last question.
Should we generally expect an SPS on the fifth year anniversary from delivery date of a rig? That's probably a starting point to a rule of thumb Joe.
But there are windows within which the classification societies allow you to carry out that work.
And I don't remember exactly how large the window is but if you're in your fourth or fifth cycle you would have probably taken advantage of that window a couple of times during the life of the rig.
So you may be off the -- you may off of a simple multiple of 5.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my next question has to do with what operators are trying to do to free up some rig time.
Can you give me an idea as to how much of the rig time is actually non-drilling mode doing stuff like intervention completion or construction? And are you seeing any efforts by operators to use a Cat A vessel to do that sort of work now that's greater than it has been historically? Or maybe efforts to do top haul drilling with a cheaper rig? That's a really interesting question Joe.
I can give you a couple of perspectives on that.
Over time I think we have seen the relative allocation of our rigs activity having gone from 70% of the time it was drilling and 30% of the time it was doing completions work.
And now it's -- with the complexity of the completions our customers are running now it's as much as 50% drilling 50% completions.
I'm not aware of a significant effort on the part of the customer community to address that.
I think we've seen it in a couple of instances where our customer has hired a specific rig to carry out the drilling operations and another rig to carry out the completion operations.
We've been involved in a project like that in West Africa with Akpo for Total.
But other than those limited instances that I'm directly familiar with I'm not sure there's a trend.
Well I think that what we're starting to see is Norway Statoil is going to go out for an intervention vessel opportunity.
And then we also understand that Petrobras will soon be coming to the market for some intervention opportunities.
So it's just starting.
So I don't have a way to handicap it or quantify it at this point but we do.
We just heard of these 2 opportunities.
We will go next to Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of cleanup timing questions for you.
First on the Richardson Discoverer 534 what's the length of the shipyard requirements that those rigs need to get back on the payroll? Well it depends on if we're going to -- if we would reactivate a rig and we would add some time to meet upgrade requirements that the customer would like.
So I think getting on one particular program we're looking at a 6-month reactivation.
But again it would depend on if we won the opportunity and the customer wants to do further upgrading.
So that could extend the time horizon.
So it's going to be dependent on what we're going to do for a specific project that we would win.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And switching to the jackups.
As you're moving those standard jackups into an independent company I assume that's so it could either be sold or perhaps even spun off.
Spinning it off probably takes a little bit more time.
What's the soonest you think you could be in position to be ready for a spinoff with audited financials and stuff like that? The critical path timeline for that Matt would be the audited financials.
And that's not a 2012 event.
It's probably second half of 2013.
We'll take our next question from Robert MacKenzie from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Rob MacKenzie here guys.
I wanted to go back to the cost question a little bit not so much -- not the daily operating cost but the downtime cost.
That tends to vary on a per day basis.
Obviously it's quite a bit and I understand you've given us full year guidance.
But what really are the moving parts there? Is it really just timing of when you pay the shipyard when a rig's down? Or what is there? Can you help us understand that better? Sure.
There's really a couple of big drivers.
Some of -- a lot of our shipyards are what we refer to as contract preparation shipyards.
So they're shipyards they're being done to meet various customer requirements prior to starting a new contract.
And a lot of times under our accounting method costs that relate to that contract preparation get deferred and amortized over the life of the contract.
Now any upfront revenue related to that also gets deferred and amortized.
So when we have a lot of contract prep shipyards in the quarter like we did in the first quarter that shows a lower shipyard out-of-service daily operating cost number because costs are being deferred.
Now if it's a survey shipyard or a shipyard that's within a contract if it's an older rig that takes a lot of work then those costs can tend to be higher.
So it really varies just based on the common mix of shipyards.
And that's one of the things that we see happening in the first and second quarter.
First quarter 60% of our shipyard projects were contract prep projects.
In the second quarter about 30% of our projects are contract prep projects.
So that drives up the average cost of those projects.
Research Division</strong> Great that's really helpful.
And then I guess my follow-up would be on the Macondo situation.
Understandably you can't say much.
But is there anything you guys can tell us about kind of what the bid/ask spread might look like for a potential settlement and what your view of timing might be? No comment Rob.
We'll go next to Andreas Stubsrud with Pareto.
Research Division</strong> I have a very quick question for you Terry.
You talked about Transocean Richardson and the tenders you're bidding on.
Are some of them in Norway? Andreas I can't tell you all my secrets.
We've looked at opportunities before in Norway for the Richardson.
And to get her in Norway it is a pretty extensive upgrade.
It's not that we can't do it and not willing to do it.
It's just again we got to have the right economic return to take a look at that.
So we're open to looking at everything.
So that's kind of how we've been charging trying to put her back to work.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much.
This concludes our first quarter 2012 results conference call.
Thank you very much for your participation today and we look forward to speaking with you again when we report the second quarter.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference.
You may disconnect at any time.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Transocean's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Sarah.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
We've also posted a file containing 4 charts that may be referenced during today's call.
This file can be found on the company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint charts.
The charts include average contracted dayrates by rig type out-of-service rig months operating and maintenance cost trends and a new chart illustrating historic and forecasted out-of-service rig month by asset class for the years 2008 to 2013.
The quarterly toolkit includes 4 additional financial tables provided for your convenience covering revenue efficiency other revenue detail daily operating and maintenance cost by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me on today's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Greg Cauthen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I'd like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results estimated loss contingencies associated with the Macondo Well incident and the prospects for the Contract Drilling business.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it's inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Reg G.
As I indicated earlier you'll find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thanks for your time and I'm now turning the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and thank you all for joining us today.
In beginning my comments I'd like to focus on 2 key highlights from yesterday's press release.
First our second quarter revenue efficiency of 92.5% was the highest we have seen since the second quarter of 2010.
While I will remind you that our progress going forward will not necessarily be linear the 2 percentage point improvement over the first quarter demonstrates that we are making progress in our efforts to improve our operating results.
And I'm particularly pleased with the performance of the Ultra-Deepwater fleet which delivered revenue efficiency of 92.2%.
These high dayrate rigs have the greatest impact on our performance and our people are doing a great job in focusing on operational excellence.
Second between the April Fleet Status Report and the July Fleet Status Report we signed $4.7 billion in new contracts.
This represents a tremendous accomplishment and a lot of hard work on the part of Terry and her worldwide marketing team.
As significant as the dollar magnitude of this backlog is more importantly we have seen an improvement in contract terms particularly in the area of enhanced subsea-related maintenance and repair provisions.
Our customers recognize that this is an industrywide issue and are partnering with us in addressing it.
For the second quarter we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interest of $0.86 per diluted share.
These results included net unfavorable items totaling $560 million or $1.58 per diluted share including an increase to our Macondo Well incident estimated loss contingency discrete tax benefits gain on the sale of rigs and other items.
Considering these items adjusted earnings were $0.72 per diluted share a quarter-on-quarter increase of $0.18 versus the first quarter of 2012.
While our operating and maintenance costs in the second quarter were higher than the first quarter as we had guided in our first quarter call increased revenues both in Contract Drilling driven by improved revenue efficiency and drilling services the result of increased activity outside of the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico more than offset this.
Greg will discuss the numbers in more detail in a moment.
As I indicated I am pleased with the progress reflected in our operating results.
We continue to focus on operational improvements through thorough inspections standardized maintenance and rigorous pre-deployment testing and enhanced contractual terms and conditions.
I am also encouraged with our progress in project management and the reduced volatility and uncertainty in out-of-service time.
Operational excellence and project excellence are key focus areas for our management team.
We also continue to see progress in the execution of our asset strategy.
During the second quarter we sold 4 standard jackups for total proceeds of $144 million.
Subsequent to the quarter we classified 2 additional rigs as held for sale: GSF Rig 103 and the Discoverer 534.
Regarding the Discoverer 534 after a more extensive review of the rig's capability in the context of our asset strategy we decided to sell the rig.
With this continued progress I am confident we will achieve our 2012 objective of $500 million to $1 billion in asset sales proceeds.
We also recently announced the formation of an independent organization to operate our remaining Standard Jackups which will allow this group to focus exclusively on competing effectively at the commodity end of our business while we continue to explore divestiture options.
It is worth remembering that our asset strategy is not just about reducing our exposure to commodity class assets.
It also entails increasing our exposure to high-spec assets both high-spec floaters and high-spec jackups.
We now own 100% of the Dhirubhai Deepwater KG1 and KG2 which were previously owned through a 50% joint venture.
Progress continues on our 5-rig construction program and customers have shown significant interest in our 2 Ultra-Deepwater drillships under construction in Korea.
While we remain reluctant to add speculative capacity we continue to pursue opportunities that meet our disciplined reinvestment criteria and support our focused high-spec strategy.
After improving our operating results and executing our asset strategy another key priority is the resolution in Macondo.
The civil trial has been rescheduled to start in January 2013 and I assure you we are well prepared to defend the company in court if necessary.
The string of successful court rulings on our insurance our indemnity and our standing under the Oil Pollution Act and the Clean Water Act all support the merits of our case.
At the same time we continue to explore the possibility of a resolution which would allow us to put the uncertainty in Macondo behind us.
The additional $750 million in estimated loss contingency we recognized in the second quarter reflects our efforts in this regard and I believe we are making progress.
In closing I believe our strategy is simple and clear: deliver best-in-class operating results demonstrating our leadership in Contract Drilling; rationalize our fleet and strengthen the company's leadership in high-spec equipment; vigorously defend the company's business model contractual indemnity and reputation in the context of the Macondo Well incident.
Our second quarter results demonstrate clear progress on the first 2 items.
Resolving Macondo may take time but I am extremely confident in the company's position.
With that I will turn it over to Greg to go through the numbers.
Greg? Thank you Steven and good morning everyone.
As Steven mentioned we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interests of $304 million or $0.86 per diluted share in the second quarter 2012.
Excluding $560 million in certain net unfavorable items our adjusted earnings were $0.72 per diluted share.
This compares to similarly adjusted restated earnings of $0.54 per diluted share in the first quarter 2012.
During the second quarter we identified an error associated with the recognition of $104 million of Macondo-related insurance receivables for legal and other costs and have made appropriate adjustments to our prior-period consolidated financial statement.
Based upon the very favorable district court ruling with respect to our insurance coverage we believe that the ultimate reimbursement of our legal cost remains likely.
At this point however we are just not able to record these particular insurance receivables as an asset under U.S.
GAAP.
In this regard we have determined that our insurance receivables were overstated by $67 million in 2011 and an additional $37 million in the first quarter of 2012.
These amounts are immaterial to prior-year financial statements.
However the company has made these adjustments in accordance with SEC guidelines which stipulate that if when corrected in the current year a prior-period error to be material to the current year the prior-year financial statement should be corrected.
In addition to the adjustments related to insurance receivables we are required to record all other adjustments related to the fiscal year 2010 and 2011 in the first quarter of 2012 even though these adjustments were and continue to be immaterial.
These additional immaterial adjustments primarily relate to repair and maintenance costs income taxes and the allocation of net income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interest.
As the adjustments are immaterial to the prior years we do not have to amend our previously filed financial statements.
Details of these corrections as well as the required reconciliations are provided in Appendix A to the earnings release.
In our second quarter results net unfavorable items included an additional estimated loss contingency of $750 million related to the Macondo Well incident.
This brings our total Macondo loss contingency up to $1.95 billion.
The loss contingency amount is our current estimate under U.S.
GAAP of the low end of a range of reasonably estimable losses.
As new developments occur or new information becomes known the amount of estimated loss contingency could change and the change could be significant.
The remaining net unfavorable items are as follows: $145 million of favorable discrete tax items; $64 million of gains made from the sale of 4 Standard Jackups; $14 million loss related to exercise of the put option by Quantum by which we acquired full ownership of the 2 Ultra-Deepwater drillships KG 1 and KG 2; $12 million impairment on the GSF Adriatic II and a $7 million gain from the sale of Challenger Minerals.
Revenue for the second quarter increased $238 million or 10% to approximately $2.6 billion from the first quarter of 2012.
Overall fleet utilization increased to 66% for the second quarter versus 61% for the first quarter.
Sequentially improved utilization increased revenue by $106 million related primarily to reduction in shipyard time compared to the first quarter.
Another $75 million of the increase was due to higher revenue efficiency which improved to 92.5% from 90.6% in the first quarter.
Additionally increase in activity in our drilling management services reporting unit resulted in the increase of an additional $69 million of revenues from the first quarter.
Second quarter operating and maintenance expenses of $1.61 billion excluding the $750 million of Macondo loss contingency increased by $144 million compared with the first quarter.
Approximately $82 million of the increase in operating maintenance cost was due to rigs undergoing shipyard maintenance repair projects as previously anticipated.
Although our shipyard days decreased in the second quarter maintenance and shipyard costs have increased due to the type and mix of projects including reactivation.
Additionally $62 million of the increase in operating and maintenance cost was due to increased activity in our low margin drilling management services reporting unit.
Excluding the net unfavorable items I've described earlier second quarter operating income of $535 million increased by 20% compared to the first quarter as increases in revenue more than offset the increases in costs.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized in interest income was $170 million compared to the $165 million in the first quarter.
The effective tax rate adjusted for unusual items of 31.1% in the second quarter increased from an adjusted 27.6% in the first quarter primarily due to rig moves and other changes in estimates.
As a reminder our estimates change as we file tax returns resolve disputes with tax authorities or become aware of other events and include changes in deferred taxes valuation allowances on deferred taxes and other tax liabilities.
Depreciation and amortization expense was $345 million in the second quarter compared to $355 million in the prior quarter.
General and administrative expenses increased to $79 million for the second quarter compared to $69 million in the previous quarter primarily due to transaction costs related to the exercise of the put option by Quantum.
Net cash flow generated from operations declined to $459 million in the second quarter compared to $540 million in the first quarter primarily due to an annual pension funding contribution and the seasonal increase in tax payments partially offset by better operating results.
Capital expenditures totaled $236 million in the second quarter down from $260 million in the first quarter due to the timing of shipyard milestone payments associated with our newbuild construction program.
Additionally disposal of our non-core assets generated proceeds of $144 million in the second quarter compared to $41 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Net cash on hand was $4 billion at the end of the second quarter generally consistent with the first quarter.
I will now update our full year 2012 guidance.
As reported on our latest Fleet Status Report we expect a lower level of out-of-service days in the third quarter.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic on the forecast of remaining 2012 out-of-service time compared -- due to the better execution of shipyard projects we have commenced following the implementation of our improved shipyard planning and execution processes.
However the lower level of shipyard activity expected in the second half of the year is not necessarily representative of what we expect in future years.
The shipyard activity in 2013 provided in our most recent Fleet Status Report represents our current best estimate of out-of-service time.
However we have not yet completed our 2013 budget process.
As Thad mentioned in his opening remarks we have provided a new chart in our quarterly toolkit that provides out-of-service time by asset class.
Additionally as we have said before we advise caution as it is not uncommon for unplanned or exceptional major shipyards to significantly increase our out-of-service time.
We are not able to predict such exceptional shipyards and consequently they are not included in our Fleet Status Reports.
Revenue efficiency in the second quarter was 92.5%.
We expect a gradual improvement over time but it is possible it may take several years to achieve our historic levels of performance as we continue efforts both technical and contractual that accomplishes this goal.
Our revenue efficiency guidance for 2012 remains unchanged at this time.
We continue to expect it to average about 92%.
We estimate other revenues to be between $560 million and $590 million for the full year 2012 which represents an increase from our prior guidance of $470 million to $500 million as a result of expected increased activity in our drilling management services markets outside the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
We now expect our operating and maintenance costs for 2012 to be between $6.25 billion and $6.4 billion an increase from our previous guidance of $6.15 billion to $6.35 billion.
This increase in cost guidance is associated with the expected higher drilling management services costs of more than $90 million as well as roughly $70 million from the expected full year impact of the correction of the error associated with the Macondo-related insurance receivables.
Based on shipyard timing reflected in the latest Fleet Status Report we expect operating and maintenance costs in the third quarter to be moderately higher than the second quarter with operating and maintenance costs in the fourth quarter falling back to be in line with the second quarter.
However shipyard schedules can change and these changes will impact operating and maintenance costs in these periods.
Although we expect the total number of out-of-service days to be lower in the second half of 2012 as compared to the first half as reported in our Fleet Status Report the relatively higher cost intensities of shipyard projects in the second half of the year the start up operations of our premium newbuild jackup the Transocean Honor and a moderate increase in maintenance and personnel cost in our operating rigs will result in a level of cost in the third and fourth quarters higher than the first half of 2012.
Interest expense net of interest income is estimated to be between $660 million and $680 million including roughly $50 million of interest income and roughly $50 million of capitalized interest.
The increase of approximately $50 million from our prior guidance is mainly due to a forecast change on noncash amortization of debt issued costs discounts and premiums.
We now expect that the annual effective tax rate for 2012 to be between 27% and 32% up from 25% to 30% previously guided primarily due to the mix of rigs working in various jurisdictions.
Our guidance for all of the items for 2012 is unchanged from our previous call.
To reiterate we expect depreciation expense for 2012 to be about $1.4 billion; general and administrative cost is expected to range between $270 million and $300 million; our capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be between $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion with the allocation consistent with our previous guidance.
For 2013 we expect operating and maintenance costs to be between 2% to 4% higher than 2012 as the increase in costs related to rigs starting operations are reactivated and the impact of inflation on the daily operating cost of our operating rigs more than offsets any reduction in costs due to a reduction in out-of-service time.
However as we have not completed our budgets for 2013 our estimates could change materially and will be affected by changes in timing of shipyards decisions to reactivate more rigs and changes in industry inflation among other factors.
Our target to reduce long-term debt to an amount between $7 billion and $9 billion and maintain our cash balances between $3 billion and $4 billion also remains unchanged.
Both targets exclude the Aker export finance debt of approximately $800 million which is supported by a similar amount of restricted cash included in our other current assets and other assets on our financial statement.
To support these targets we plan to continue to focus our 2012 available cash and cash flow on retiring debt as it matures with the expectation that our Series C convertible notes will be put to us in December.
In April we retired early $370 million of other debt in line with our guidance provided in the prior call.
With that I will hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Greg and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
From a marketing standpoint the recent weakness and volatility in oil and gas commodity pricing during the quarter have not dampened the demand for any asset classes within our drilling fleet.
This is evidenced by the significant number of contracts executed since our last earnings call totaling $4.4 billion.
Year-to-date we have secured contracts totaling $6 billion resulting in an increase in our total contract backlog for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008.
Additionally we have opportunities worth over $2 billion currently under discussion.
More importantly the pace of contract executions so far this year has already exceeded the level we attained in all of 2011 and we still have 5 months left to go.
We look forward to the many opportunities available in the market for the remainder of 2012 and on into 2013.
Utilization in dayrates for the Ultra-Deepwater fleet are near historic highs and our customers continue to secure rig capacity at near record levels over the past 2 quarters.
With multiple customers competing for the same units available in 2013 we believe that the remaining supply will be quickly absorbed pushing the positive contracting momentum to the units available in 2014.
With the high utilization in the Ultra-Deepwater market we are seeing increasing opportunities for our Deepwater fleet.
Tendering and contracting activity in the Deepwater market is continuing to improve as evidenced by the recent fixture for our Transocean Marianas at 530 000 per day plus performance incentives.
This is the first fixture over 500 000 per day for a lowered Deepwater unit since 2008.
We expect to report more positive news for the rest of our Deepwater fleet with availability in 2012.
Midwater activity especially in the U.K.
sector of the North Sea is approaching all-time highs pushing rates even closer to the $400 000 level as evidenced by the 1-year extension for our Sedco 714 at the leading-edge dayrate of $395 000 per day in the U.K.
The recent fixture of our GSF Rig 135 at $340 000 per day for duration of 120 days represents the highest dayrate in the standard floater market since Q1 2009.
Multiple tenders in the U.K.
Norway and Eastern Canada for long-term exploration and development programs are providing opportunities to bring additional harsh environment capacity into the market.
Demand for premium and Standard Jackups continues to increase resulting in higher global utilization and dayrates as evidenced by solid contracts being reported in the key demand arenas of Southeast Asia West Africa and the Middle East.
We therefore expect the newbuilds arriving in the market in 2012 to be fully absorbed without significant impact on the market dynamics.
Beginning with the Ultra-Deepwater market let's take a closer look at the various markets.
The tight Ultra-Deepwater market has resulted in pricing opportunities now from the mid-$500 000 per day to well over $600 000 per day depending on availability overall term and location.
The Ultra-Deepwater demand is being mainly driven by exploration programs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico East and West Africa compounded by the emerging markets where recent successes are resulting in incremental demand.
As we move further into the development cycle over the next few years we believe that increased demand will continue to absorb the available units and provide further growth opportunities for our fleet.
While Petrobras's current 5-year plan does not imply a significant increase in demand for Ultra-Deepwater rigs we believe there will be opportunities to secure extensions for existing fleet and expect a need of incremental rigs to bridge the gap to the arrival of the Brazilian-built newbuild fleet.
Since our last earnings call we've been able to secure multiple contracts totaling approximately 9 rig years worth $1.8 billion.
The Discoverer Deep Seas was our most recently contracted fixture at $595 000 per day for 3 years with a new customer in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
The previous dayrate on this rig was $450 000 per day.
We are in advanced discussions on our existing Ultra-Deepwater units available in late 2012 and beyond at very attractive rates.
Our confidence in the long-term future of the Ultra-Deepwater market has also been confirmed by the strong interest shown by our customers in our 2 DSME-designed Ultra-Deepwater drillships under construction.
Turning to the Deepwater market due to the above-mentioned tightness in the Ultra-Deepwater market we expect the tendering and contracting activity to continue to improve over the next 2 quarters.
As evidenced by the recent Deepwater fixtures of over $500 000 and the open demand in West Africa and Asia we're confident that our fleet will benefit from these opportunities.
Since our last earnings call we executed 2 rig contracts for over 3.5 rig years worth $600 million.
In the Midwater and Harsh-Environment floater market we continue to see increasing demand in Norway and the U.K.
North Sea where we are close to being sold out for 2013 and are evaluating opportunities to reactivate some of our idle capacity.
Based on inquiries received from our customers we believe that the market will continue to be undersupplied through '13 possibly well into '14 providing ample growth opportunities for the few customers requiring Harsh-Environment newbuilds for their programs.
Since our last Fleet Status Report we've been able to secure the leading-edge dayrate of 395 per day for the 1-year contract in the U.K.
We're confident in our ability to secure favorable rates for our remaining available Midwater capacity not only in the Harsh-Environment market but also in West Africa India and Southeast Asia where demand remains steady.
Moving to the jackup market demand for premium and Standard Jackups continues to grow.
Increased utilization has resulted in higher dayrates moving over 150 000 per day as evidenced by our long-term fixtures in West Africa and Southeast Asia.
Since our last earnings call we were able to secure multiple contracts across our entire jackup fleet totaling approximately 9.5 rig years with dayrates ranging from 116 000 per day for lower spec jackups to 155 000 per day for our premium units.
Based on the strong market and requests from our customers we expect to have additional opportunities to reactivate more of our idle equipment.
In conclusion strong demand and tight supply coupled with the continuing exploration successes maturation of some large development programs and new emerging plays continue to support our view that dayrates and utilization will continue to improve while providing opportunity to grow our fleet with our customers.
This concludes my overview on the market so I'll turn it back to you Steven Thank you Sarah.
With that we're ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Angie Sedita of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Steven just first a theoretical question on the dividend and potentially or ultimately the reinstatement of the dividend.
Do you believe you and the Board that you would already need to have settled with the Department of Justice and the plaintiff before considering the dividend or reinstating partially the dividend? Or given the large reserve that's been taken could you consider you and the Board reinstating the dividend before settling with both parties? This is delving into the realm of speculation.
So let me try and give you at least some guidance in how we would think about this.
First of all I would tell you that the reserves we have taken are noncash reserves.
They are booked through our balance sheet but they would require once we do reach agreement with the other parties in the Macondo situation it would require us to actually fund that with cash.
So that would be a use of cash that as we book reserves on our balance sheet would ultimately have to be satisfied.
As we think about it from the perspective of the board we're focused on the quality and the strength and the integrity of our balance sheet.
We're focused on remaining an investment-grade quality issuer.
We're focused on identifying opportunities to reinvest in our business and then we're committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders.
And so that's kind of the framework within which we would think about it.
I wouldn't set out that as an absolute requirement we'd have to have a settlement but that would be a significant factor in our consideration for sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I know you touched on briefly on the new rig construction and obviously you've talked about it in the past.
But correctly or incorrectly I had recently heard that there could be a reevaluation of building Ultra-Deepwater rigs on speculation.
And is the Board reevaluating this policy or could they revisit this policy? As I said in my comments Angie we remain reluctant to add speculative capacity.
That's not an absolute.
It is something that the Board regularly evaluates.
We are interested in identifying opportunities to reinvest in our business that meet our reinvestment criteria and add to our focus on high-spec assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
Finally and as a follow up to that as you mentioned new management on the jackup and placing it into a separate entity does that imply that it could still be a possibility or is still a sale clearly on the table? Well we continue to consider all of the divestiture alternatives that are available to us.
We've made progress in selling single assets and we continue to evaluate the possibility of selling a package of assets or packages of assets and also the possibility of an IPO or spin type transaction.
It's all still on the table.
We'll go next to Robin Shoemaker of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Steven just for clarification.
On the $750 million additional charge was there any event or court ruling or anything specific that led to that charge taken in the second quarter? How does that process work if you could describe it? The way the process works Robin the process itself is relatively straightforward.
It is a result of management evaluating all of the facts and circumstances associated with the Macondo Well incident and we do that evaluation almost on an ongoing basis.
So as we approach the end of a quarter we get together and we do the internal evaluation and then we obviously review that evaluation with our external auditors.
And that is what resulted at the end of the quarter in the addition of $750 million to the loss contingency.
Research Division</strong> As you identify rigs for potential sale you mentioned the Discoverer 534 and another rig how you gauge demand for those rigs which obviously need considerable capital investment to put them back into service? And are there these last 2 that you've identified are we likely to see more within the idle fleet that would be good candidates for divestiture? Yes I would tell you that if you think about the company's strategy to reduce our exposure to low-spec commodity class assets and you look at some of the idle capacity we have certainly some of that idle capacity falls into that category of low-spec commodity class.
And so it's really an ongoing process on the part of our asset divestiture team to evaluate opportunities in the marketplace to remain in contact with both rig brokers and buyers to see if we can identify opportunities that make sense for us to dispose of those assets to divest ourselves of those assets.
That divestiture team is doing a great job.
We're making good progress on it and we'll continue to focus on that as one key element of our strategy.
[Operator Instructions] Up next from ISI Group we'll go to Jud Bailey.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on Brazil.
It sounds like Petrobras may be coming out with some tenders here shortly but I was wondering if you're having any conversations or talking to any non-Petrobras customers in Brazil.
It sounds like there may be some more opportunities developing for non-Petrobras operators down there.
So I was wondering if you could comment on that please.
Judd this is Terry.
We remain in discussions with Petrobras and we look for them for guidance certainly on the existing fleet and when they're going to go about doing that.
Right now they are tied up on the steady contract awards.
So you just noticed that 6 awards have already been awarded to BrasFELS by Petrobras to SETI.
So they're working on those contracts they're trying to finalize the other ones.
And then after they do that they're going to refocus on their extension of fleet and also incremental rigs.
So we think that there will be as I stated in my notes some incremental rigs to bridge to these newbuilds.
Now we are engaged in discussions with the independents in Brazil also and we are drilling for a few independents now.
So we do see that there's other opportunities there too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on some of the asset sale questions kind of broke up into 2.
The disclosed sale price on the 534 was below low below what we had expected.
Can you say if there was any equipment that was taken off that rig or wasn't included or if it was coming up against a survey of any type? And then also are there other opportunities to sell that class of asset and upgraded Deepwater rig? Yes.
I'll tell you Judd we don't ever comment on the individual consideration we receive for any particular asset and each one of those asset transactions is a little bit different in terms of the equipment that's sold and the provisions that are included in the sales agreement.
So I'm not going to comment specifically on the sale of 534 beyond the fact that we've listed it as an asset held for sale.
Outside the 534 beyond the 534 there are as I said earlier in response to a question there are other assets in our fleet that fall into that low-spec commodity class older conventional Deepwater equipment older generation Deepwater equipment that we think would be better in somebody else's hands.
And so we will continue to execute that asset strategy to position the company as a clear leader in Ultra-Deepwater and high-spec jackups.
We'll go next to Ole Slorer of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you talked a little bit on that point? I mean you raised guidance on a sort of slightly I mean it was not much at all.
So hoping to get some confidence now that you're hopefully getting through the biggest hurdle in terms of upgrading your very ambitious upgrade programs.
So could you give a little color on what specifically is left for you to do now in order to get the operating efficiency to the level that you think is appropriate? As I mentioned in my call and this has been a consistent theme in our comments for the last several quarters now we're focused on thorough inspections and standardized maintenance and rigorous pre-deployment testing.
And when you say that you can generally get it out pretty quickly but when you try and implement it across a global fleet like ours each particular element of that approach to improving our operations takes a lot of hard work and effort on the part of our worldwide operations team.
I think the results in the second quarter demonstrate that we're making progress.
But as Greg indicated in his comments our guidance for revenue efficiency for the full year 2012 remains about 92% and it could take us some time to get back to our historical levels of where we were prior to experiencing our troubles where we were delivering revenue efficiency in the mid-90s.
So we've still got some work to do in terms of implementing that consistent program across the entirety of our fleet throughout all of the different elements of it.
But I'm convinced we're making progress.
Research Division</strong> Would you still have a roadmap in place to get you to the mid-90s? Absolutely.
It's a combination of the technical efforts we're making in terms of improving the performance and the reliability of our equipment and all the hard work being done by Terry and her marketing team in terms of improving the contract terms and conditions.
We'll get there.
We'll go next to Ian Macpherson of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Steven with the creation of a separate organization for the jackups should we consider this to be more of a process in order to move one step closer to a standalone entity? Or in the meantime will we see some appreciable change in the way the jackup business is running? In other words are we going to see higher or lower costs in that business than we otherwise would have and any change in the way the jackups are marketed more or less aggressively et cetera et cetera? Ian I think your characterization of this as a process is exactly right.
We've just taken the initial steps of starting to create the organization.
We've been working on the approach to selling individual assets for some time now.
This positions us further along the spectrum if we were to actually identify a package opportunity that we could pursue or ultimately some kind of a large capital markets transaction like an IPO or a spin.
This is a process that will help us get there.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is again kind of flogging the asset sales topic.
Do you see the opportunity to sell floaters for well intervention conversions as scalable in any way? I know that Helix doesn't have unlimited balance sheet but do you see new entrants into that market or existing participants in the eastern hemisphere looking for conversions? That's a good question Ian.
Over the course of the last year or 18 months we've sold assets into the accommodation market.
We have sold assets into the drilling market.
We're open to selling assets into the intervention market.
I'm not sure how much that will actually grow.
We've been talking about the intervention market for several years now with the increasing prevalence of subsea wellheads installed around the world.
You'd think there'd be a market there.
And so if it does materialize I guess it wouldn't surprise me.
We'll move to Wells Fargo's Matt Conlan.
So just getting back to the stronger revenue efficiency it seems like not only you but also the other drilling contractors show that they kept their Deepwater assets operating better this quarter than they had for the last few.
What kind of -- how is the relationship between you and your customers? Are they becoming less draconian as to what level of VOP issues are tolerable versus what requires a drilling stoppage? I think what I would say to that Matt is everybody's learning as we go on.
We started out in the immediate aftermath of Macondo with a lot of heightened scrutiny and very very low levels of tolerance.
I think we're all learning and improving the way we risk assess and operate and maintain subsea equipment.
And I think that's reflected in the industry's improved performance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's terrific.
And as a follow-up on your forward cost guidance does that include expenses for reactivating rigs that haven't already been announced? And if so how much of that is in those cost estimates? It generally doesn't include expenses for reactivating rigs that haven't been announced.
The only exception and we've talked about this previously is on the Richardson we are doing some preliminary work on long lead time items and everything.
And so those costs are included in the cost estimates.
But other than that until we make a decision to reactivate a rig it's not in our cost guidance.
Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the overall market dynamics.
You indicated Terry I think some possibilities to activate rigs I think both in the Midwater and on the jackup front.
How would you characterize those opportunities today versus maybe 3 or 6 months ago? And could you potentially put a number behind that? We haven't been putting actual numbers of what we think that rig could reactivate.
What we're doing is we're going through this business case analysis as you would expect to see which rigs we could put to work with the continued improvement of demand out there.
And the North Sea we believe is going to perhaps provide an opportunity where we could reactivate a rig and be happy to do so.
The term is certainly there and the rate is certainly there.
So we like what we see there.
We're working on that.
And then there are other opportunities that we see also in Australia where we could potentially reactivate a rig there.
So we like those 2 opportunities.
We're working on them very hard.
In the jackup space multiple tenders are coming in from Qatar from Saudi.
Certainly ONGC is about to come out with what we think is going to be a 8-rig package.
So we think that those -- with the current demand situation in those arenas we believe that we'll be able to reactivate some more jackups.
From Capital Markets [ph] we will hear from Robert Jensen [ph].
You touched a bit upon this earlier but circling back to the 534 you previously said that that was one of the units you considered to reactivated.
And if I remember correctly you had already ordered some long lead items for that rig.
And given that's now sold should we read into this that you've become less interested in reactivating floaters? Or was that just a oneoff? No.
You have to look at those decisions on an asset-by-asset basis Robert.
The evaluation surrounding the 534 was specific to the 534.
So even though we may have ordered some long lead equipment when we do that we typically focus on the equipment that is transferable across our fleet.
So that investment can be recaptured elsewhere.
And then we look at the specific condition of the 534 the opportunities that are available in the marketplace that meet the specifications of the 534 and the economics of reactivating the 534.
In the case of the 534 we made the decision that it made more economic sense for us to sell that asset.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Just one question on the cost side as well.
You gave some indications on the 2013 cost level.
But if you look longer term like 2 3 years down the road in your opinion is there any chance of you getting costs back towards the $6 billion mark or even below? Just trying to get some sense of what's this long-term normalized OpEx level for you guys.
One certainly looking long term like that is very problematic.
Certainly over time we would expect to see improvements in some of the issues related to the BOP recertification and all that.
But over that same period of time you've got general industry inflation that's moving the other way and some of the issues regarding the new regulations have given our OEMs a lot of pricing power.
And so net-net long term we would expect to see costs continue to increase.
I mean that those 2 trends the inflationary trend is going to offset the improvements and how we are able to do our maintenance.
From Barclays we'll hear from Harry Mateer.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question as you see it today do you expect to be able to pay down the early 2013 maturities as well as the Series C convert with cash? That's what we're currently anticipating.
Steven talked about we're targeting $500 million to $1 billion of asset sales.
And so with our cash from operations the proceeds from those asset sales as well as the cash we currently have in the bank we're considering paying off that debt now.
As time progresses we'll certainly look at that and whether it makes sense to refinance or pay that off with cash.
But we are certainly at this point able to pay that off with cash if that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> And then as my follow up can you just give us the exact balance on the Aker export debt? At June 30 I know you mentioned it was around $800 million but if you could give us the exact breakdown between short term and long term that would be great.
I don't have that exact breakdown between short term and long term but we'll have to report back with you later.
We'll go next to Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Greg I was just wondering if there's any Macondo legal expenses in the 2013 cost bump? Yes.
So we -- as Steven's talked about we expect the trial to start in 2013.
So in our very rough estimate of 2013 expenses are Macondo legal expenses and because we expect to be in litigation there's some increase but frankly it's a small -- compared to the overall operating and maintenance expense it's relatively small.
So that's certainly not a big driver in the increase but there is a small increase.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Greg just thinking about your tax guidance here.
We're certainly not seeing the benefits of the tax inversion with the redomestication and I'm wondering if you can give us some insight as to why that is and what the prognosis is going forward for that? Yes.
Our tax structure is actually working exactly as anticipated but the tax structure generates very low marginal rates which benefit the company when it has very high margins.
And despite the operational improvements we've seen several quarters we're clearly not back to the kind of margins that we should have and expect to have in the future.
And so as you see our margins increased with those low marginal tax rates that will drive the effective tax rate right back down.
If you go back and look at a 15-year cycle you'll see this happened to the company previously in the downturn in the early 2002 2003 where our tax rate went way up and profitability declined.
And as soon as profitability came back tax rate plummeted and that's what we would expect to happen here.
Hugh Wynne [ph] Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the detail in expected out-of-service days in '13.
Should we assume that about 2 700 days is probably a normal run rate or is that on the low side? If you look at Chart 3 that's the new chart that we've now provided out on the website we show our 5-year history of out-of-service days and you'll see that 2013 looked a little lower than the average pre-Macondo.
Now as I pointed out we don't in the Fleet Status Report include unplanned shipyards or whatever and those pre-Macondo years have unplanned shipyards in them.
So it's a little low but broadly if you factor in some contingency for unplanned shipyards it's broadly in line with what we saw pre-Macondo.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then an unrelated follow up.
I believe you're currently not booking any tax benefit associated with the Macondo charges.
Is that correct and have you assessed that potential? We're not booking any tax benefits associated with the Macondo charges because currently we have a reserve into booked tax benefits.
You really need to know with great specificity what exactly is going to be paid when it's going to be paid what entity is going to be paid in and at this point we have none of that information.
And so it won't give us a lot of comfort to book any tax reserve.
But even as we look at hypotheticals I want anticipate a very significant tax offset even when we do get that additional detail.
And we'll hear next from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask I noticed very kind of positive about the guidance on costs.
As you look into what you have in your fleet in terms of existing contracts for cost escalation clauses and you look at that versus what you're planning at the margin and how you see that kind of rolling through can you give me a little color on the mix of rigs that have cost escalation clauses? And then maybe what's included in that incrementally? Is that a part of the contracting process that's actually getting better? This is Terry.
Most of our High-Specification Floaters that are on long-term contracts have cost escalation provisions in them.
It's been an industry standard for quite some time and we don't believe that that's particularly going to go away because we're seeing in a lot of the countries that we're working in we're seeing the cost certainly of labor going up quickly.
So this is something that we've negotiated for years.
We're continuing to negotiate those same provisions and we haven't seen pushback.
But as far as to give you a specific number I don't have that information readily with me.
But again if you look for long term and you look for the High-Specification Floaters it's an industry norm.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so therefore some of the concerns across the states about labor shortages and costs going up shouldn't really be an issue for you? And then kind of secondarily if you think about subsea stack downtime as you kind of read through the industrywide presentations about what's causing downtime that's an incremental too.
Is that something where not only do you get kind of labor coverage but you also may be getting it for subsea stack down incrementally too and that's part of why you're looking a little bit better on the cost side looking forward? Darren I wouldn't make that 100% statement.
Yes it's not universal.
I mean each contract is negotiated on a case-by-case basis and it's all dependent upon where you are in the market and what you get and you don't get full coverage on every escalation provision.
They're all different.
Some are indices some are based on flat rates.
So it's just it completely depends on the situation and the country.
And be careful of when we have cost escalation protection.
That shows up in the revenue line.
So when we guide to cost that includes all our expectations of future cost increases on those contracts that have cost escalations that will show up in the revenue line.
And as Terry mentioned it's not unusual on maintenance costs for those escalation provisions to be based on indices or other formulas that have not really captured all the additional maintenance we've had to do post-Macondo.
So they work very well on labor and on general inflation but not on an increase in actual maintenance activity.
So they're not working well.
And also I'd caution you not to assume because we have escalation provisions that cost increases don't have an impact on the company going forward because new contracts are falling or dayrates are set by the general supply/demand and we're still subject to the higher cost level in that area.
So be very careful on this topic.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Vayda I would like to turn the conference back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thanks very much Sarah.
Thanks to all our participants today.
We very much look forward to speaking to you again on the third quarter call.
If you have any follow-up questions please don't hesitate to ring us up.
Thank you.
And again that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you all for joining us.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
We've also posted a file containing 4 charts that may be referenced during today's call.
The file can be found on the company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint Charts.
Charts include average contract day rates by rig type out-of-service rig months operating and maintenance cost trends and a new chart illustrating historic and forecasted out-of-service rig month by asset class for the years 2008 to 2013.
The quarterly toolkit includes 4 additional financial tables for your convenience covering revenue efficiency other revenue details daily operating and maintenance costs by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me on this morning's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Greg Cauthen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I'd like to point out that during the course of the call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results estimated loss contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident matters associated with the pending divestiture of our shallow water drilling assets and in general the prospects for the contract drilling business.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it's inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Reg G.
As I indicated earlier you'll find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliation.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to 1 initial question and 1 follow-up.
Thanks for your attention and I'll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
We had a very eventful quarter during which we made notable progress against a number of key initiatives.
As you saw from the press release we reported adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $499 million or $1.37 per diluted share including $880 million in net unfavorable noncash items mostly related to the impairment of assets and goodwill associated with our pending divestiture of the standard jackup fleet.
We reported a net loss of attributable to controlling interest of $381 million or $1.06 per diluted share.
Our adjusted results clearly demonstrate the progress we have made in improving our execution in the field.
At 94.3% third quarter revenue efficiency from continuing operations was the best in 3 years and an increase from about 92% in the second quarter of 2012.
I am particularly pleased with the performance of our high-specification floater fleet which achieved revenue efficiency of 95.4%.
Ihab Toma Alan Quintero and the entire Operations team around the world deserve a ton of credit for their tireless efforts in delivering these results.
While I am by no means satisfied with where we are and there is work to be done to achieve even better operating performance as well as to ensure its sustainability at these improved levels I am happy with our progress and optimistic about the future.
Another noteworthy item since our July 18th Fleet Status Report we've added an incremental $10.2 billion in backlog bringing year-to-date contract additions associated with continuing operations to $15.4 billion.
This is a direct result of the strength of our marketing team the deep customer relationships that they have nurtured over the years and I believe also reflects the confidence and trust that our customers place in Transocean.
I want to thank them for allowing us to be a part of their business and to contribute to their success.
As you have likely noted over the past quarter we have announced a number of changes in the senior management team.
On October 1 John Stobart joined us as Chief Operating Officer.
John brings with him a demonstrated passion for operational excellence and a career of delivering exceptional results.
I've known John a long time and I am confident he is the right person to build on Ihab Toma's notable success over the last several quarters and take our operational execution to the next level.
Concurrent with John's arrival Ihab agreed to become our Chief of Staff where he continues to oversee our marketing efforts and has assumed responsibility for our human resources information technology supply chain and asset divestiture functions.
I'm certain Ihab will provide exceptional leadership and strategic direction to these key functional areas and continued support for the implementation of our vision and strategy across the organization.
On November 15 Esa Ikäheimonen will take over from Greg Cauthen as Chief Financial Officer.
Like John Esa brings a passion for excellence and has a career track record of delivering shareholder value.
I am very pleased to have John and Esa join our team.
Finally Nick Deeming our former General Counsel recently resigned from Transocean.
I want to thank Nick for his service during his tenure at the company.
We have a considerable depth of knowledge and experience on our legal bench and as such Mike Munro Vice President Deputy General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer and David Schwab Senior Associate General Counsel Global Head of Dispute Resolution have stepped up to seamlessly assume management of our internal and external legal affairs.
Over the past several quarters I have focused my comments on 3 critical issues: our operating results our asset strategy and Macondo.
During the third quarter we demonstrated meaningful progress on 2 of these critical issues.
First regarding our objective to achieve operational excellence.
Our quarterly results illustrate what can be accomplished through the consistent application of a simple formula to improve the performance of all critical systems on our drilling rigs particularly the reliability of complex subsea well control equipment.
Through thorough inspections standardized maintenance and rigorous pre-deployment testing we have improved our revenue efficiency to 94.3% from 88.5% 1 year ago.
And importantly our Ultra-Deepwater fleet improved to 95.8% from 86.4%.
Additionally we have been successful in partnering with many of our customers to implement enhanced contract terms and conditions that more appropriately reflect the financial impact of new regulations and customer requirements for subsea-related maintenance and repair.
These contract terms will benefit our revenue efficiency performance in the future.
Our project management results also show substantial improvement with reduced volatility and more predictability in rig out-of-service time the result of increased rigor and project planning and work scope development.
Second our asset strategy is straightforward.
We have a clear objective to gradually reduce our exposure to lower specification less differentiated assets and increase our exposure to high-specification assets both jackups and floaters.
With respect to the former our agreement to sell 38 shallow-water rigs to Shelf Drilling remains on track for closing in the fourth quarter.
We also anticipate continued progress in the sale of individual noncore assets both floaters and our remaining Standard Jackups.
Through the end of October we have divested 8 noncore assets in single-asset transactions.
Representing the most recent growth component of our asset strategy in September we announced that we would build 4 industry-leading state-of-the-art high-specification Ultra-Deepwater drillships for Shell.
These fully contracted assets represent 40 rig years of work and an unprecedented $7.6 billion of long-dated backlog for the company and reflect our objective to achieve profitable growth.
When I visited the DSME yard in South Korea to sign the construction contract for the 4 Shell newbuilds I also reviewed the construction progress on the Deepwater Asgard and the Deepwater Invictus which will join Transocean's industry-leading Ultra-Deepwater fleet in early 2014.
As you know we recently contracted the Deepwater Invictus in the Gulf of Mexico at $595 000 per day for 3 years and we are in conversations with several operators regarding the Deepwater Asgard.
These 2 newbuilds along with the Harsh-Environment semisubmersibles the Transocean Barents and the Transocean Spitsbergen acquired through the purchase of Aker Drilling had strengthened our high-specification leadership in the industry.
I note that the year-to-date revenue efficiency of the Barents and the Spitsbergen at 99.2% and 97.5% respectively has been among the best in our fleet.
The third key area of focus is the resolution of Macondo.
We are well prepared for trials scheduled to commence on February 25.
While we remain open to the possibility of a settlement with the DOJ and others the favorable rulings we have received from the trial court on our insurance our contractual indemnity from BP and our standing under the Clean Water Act and Oil Pollution Act emphasize the strengths of our case.
We are similarly focused on our continued defense of the company's business and employees in Brazil.
We were pleased with the partial lifting of the preliminary injunction by the Superior Court of Justice and we continue to pursue all available alternatives to resolve the outstanding litigation related to the Frade incident.
Finally sustained high levels of global activity and the influx of approximately 53 new Ultra-Deepwater drillships and 90 premium jackups over the next several years is likely to result in accelerating cost inflation.
We expect to see evidence of this in our operating and maintenance costs which include increased labor expenses reflecting competition for and retention of talent; the cost of training and deploying crews to man the new equipment; and in the cost of drilling equipment spares and consumables among others.
We are focused on minimizing the impact of inflation on our bottom line through disciplined cost control and the negotiation of appropriate commercial terms that account for the economic environment.
As is our practice we will provide you with more detailed guidance for 2013 when we report our fourth quarter 2012 results.
Lastly I should mention that this is Greg Cauthen's last earnings call with us as interim CFO.
I want to thank him personally and on behalf of the company for his significant contribution over the past year.
His perspective professionalism and dedication are reflected in the progress we have made against the objectives I just discussed.
With that Greg let's go through the numbers.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
As Steven mentioned we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interest of $381 million or $1.06 per diluted share for the third quarter 2012.
Excluding $880 million in certain net unfavorable items mainly related to the impairment of the assets associated with our pending divestiture of the standard jackups fleet our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $499 million or $1.37 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted restated earnings of $0.88 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
In September 2012 the company committed to exit the standard jackup and swamp barge markets.
As a result of this decision we have classified these rigs as held for sale discontinued depreciation expense and reclassified operations and related gains or losses and impairments and discontinued operations.
For consistency and comparison the standard jackup operations for all prior periods presented have also been reclassified as discontinued operations.
Consequently as I make my comments I will specify whether they relate to the whole company continuing operations or discontinued operations.
In our third quarter results net unfavorable items included an $878 million loss on impairment of assets included in discontinued operations associated primarily with exiting the standard jackup market.
This impairment includes fixed assets goodwill and other assets related to our Standard Jackups and swamp barge and reflects the excess of the carrying value of such assets over their fair market value.
The fair market value is net of approximately $80 million in taxes advisor fees legal fees employee-related and other costs associated with the sale of these assets.
We have recorded the loss on impairments in the third quarter and anticipate no additional significant valuation adjustments when the transaction closes currently expected in the fourth quarter.
The remaining net unfavorable items are as follows: a $30 million loss in discontinued operations with $24 million related to operations in the Standard Jackups which includes revenues operating costs depreciation and income taxes and $6 million primarily associated with Challenger Minerals; $48 million in net gain on the sale of 2 floaters the Discoverer 534 and the Jim Cunningham; and a $20 million loss related to discrete tax items and other items primarily related to changes in estimates of prior year taxes.
After adjusting for these net unfavorable items adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $499 million or $1.37 per diluted share.
Inclusive of discontinued operations adjusted earnings were $469 million or $1.29 per share.
Consolidated revenues from continuing operations increased $88 million to approximately $2.44 billion from $2.35 billion in the second quarter of 2012.
Contract drilling revenue increased by $136 million with about $60 million of the increase due to higher revenue efficiency which for continuing operations improved to 94.3% in the third quarter from 92.1% in the second quarter.
Overall fleet utilization from continuing operations increased to 77% for the third quarter up from 72% in the second quarter accounting for much of the remainder of the improvement.
Partially offsetting the increase in contract drilling revenues was a $48 million decrease in other revenues primarily due to reduced activity mostly related to timing of well completions in our drilling management services reporting unit.
Third quarter operating and maintenance expenses from continuing operations of $1.3 billion decreased by $43 million compared with the second quarter adjusted to exclude the $750 million Macondo loss contingency recorded in the second quarter.
Operating and maintenance costs decreased by $60 million due to the previously mentioned reduced activity in our drilling management services reporting unit.
This decrease was partially offset by a $17 million increase in contract drilling operating and maintenance costs due to activity increases pay raises and other factors partially offset by lower costs in the third quarter associated with rigs undergoing shipyard maintenance and repair projects.
Excluding the net unfavorable items I've discussed earlier third quarter operating income from continuing operations at $761 million increased by 26% compared to the second quarter operating income of $605 million as revenues increased and costs decreased.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized in interest income was $165 million compared to $170 million in the second quarter.
Increases in interest income and the reduction in interest related to interest rate swap terminations and bank debt retirements more than offset the increase in interest expense from our $1.5 billion bond offering in September.
Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations of $280 million in the third quarter was the same as the prior quarter.
General and administrative expenses decreased to $69 million in the third quarter compared to $79 million in the previous quarter primarily due to second quarter transaction costs related to the exercise of the put option by Quantum.
The annual effective tax rate from continuing operations after adjusting for unusual items was 20.5% for the 9 months ended September 30 a decrease from an adjusted 24.6% for the 6 months ended June 30 primarily due to improved profitability and changes in estimates.
The actual effective tax rate of 16.5% for the quarter reflects a $31 million favorable adjustment required to decrease our annual effective tax rate offset by changes in estimates for discrete tax items.
The loss in discontinued operations of $909 million includes the previously mentioned standard jackup impairment loss of $878 million standard jackup normal operational loss of $24 million and the remainder relating to Challenger Minerals.
For more details please see Note 9 in the third quarter Form 10-Q.
Net cash flow generated from total operations increased to $786 million in the third quarter compared to $459 million in the second quarter.
The increase was primarily due to better operating results in the third quarter enhanced by the lack of the annual pension funding contribution of about $100 million which impacted the second quarter.
Capital expenditures totaled $225 million in the third quarter down slightly from the $236 million in the second quarter due to timing of shipyard milestone payments associated with our newbuild construction program.
Additionally disposal of our noncore assets generated proceeds of $183 million in the third quarter compared to $161 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Excluding the Shelf Drilling transactions we remain on track to achieve at least the low end of our $500 million to $1 billion divestiture target.
Finally cash flow from financing activities was $1.29 billion representing proceeds from our 1.5 billion bond offering partially offset by debt retirements.
Net cash on hand was $6 billion at the end of the third quarter up by more than $2 billion from the second quarter primarily due to the bond offering and cash generated by operations.
I will now update our full year 2012 guidance.
As reported on our latest Fleet Status Report we expect a higher level of out-of-service days in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter due to a shift of commencement of a shipyard from the third quarter to the fourth quarter and several contract preparation shipyards now expected to occur in the fourth quarter.
Consequently we expect a lower level of revenue in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter of 2012.
While we have experienced several quarters of stable-to-improving revenue efficiency and are becoming more confident in the sustainability of these improvements we'll remind you that our revenue efficiency can be volatile and particularly so in a 0 tolerance environment.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we currently anticipate that revenue efficiency for continuing operations will average about 93%.
Other revenues are expected to be between $560 million and $590 million for the full year 2012 consistent with our previous guidance.
Operating and maintenance costs from continuing operations for the full year 2012 are expected to be between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion.
Consequently we expect our fourth quarter operating and maintenance costs from continuing operations to be significantly higher sequentially due to the previous mentioned increase in days in shipyard as well as an expected increase in maintenance activity.
Inclusive of discontinued operations total 2012 operating and maintenance costs are expected to be between $6.2 billion and $6.3 billion consistent with our previous guidance.
We expect that depreciation expense from continuing operations will be between $1.1 billion and $1.15 billion for 2012 which after adjusting for discontinued operations is also consistent with our prior guidance.
We continue to expect that interest expense net of interest income will be between $660 million and $680 million including $55 million of interest income and roughly $55 million of capitalized interest.
This remains consistent with our previous guidance as the higher interest expense from our $1.5 billion bond offering is offset by higher-than-anticipated bank debt retirements higher interest income and more capitalized interest.
We now expect the annual effective tax rate from continuing operations for 2012 to be between 19% and 23%.
Even after adjusting for discontinued operations this is lower than previously guided.
The reduction in the annual effective tax rate highlights the effects of our tax structure.
When we generate higher profitability our tax rate is generally lower.
General administrative costs are expected to range between $280 million and $300 million consistent with our previous guidance.
Our capital expenditures for 2012 are now expected to be between $1.6 billion and $1.65 billion with the increase from previous guidance related to initial payments in October on the 4 Shell newbuilds.
Relative to the third quarter we expect improved results from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter due to higher field operating income and the discontinuation of depreciation expense partially offset by higher income tax expense.
Now I will update our preliminary guidance for 2013.
Keep in mind that we are still working through our budget process and will provide more refined guidance for 2013 when we report our fourth quarter 2012 results.
The shipyard activity in 2013 provided in our most recently Fleet Status Report continues to represent our current best estimate of out-of-service time.
Additionally and as we have said before we advise caution as it's not uncommon for unplanned or exceptional major shipyards to significantly increase our out-of-service time.
We're not able to predict such exceptional shipyards and consequently they are not included in our Fleet Status Report.
For 2013 we currently expect revenue efficiency from continuing operations to average approximately 93%.
However this will vary quarter-to-quarter as we had mentioned before.
Operating and maintenance costs from continuing operations for 2013 are expected to be between 5% and 7% higher than 2012 as restated for continuing operations.
About half of this increase relates to the removal of the shallow-water rigs from the numerator and the denominator.
We are also seeing inflation in the daily cost of operating our rigs training and development of the crews to man our newbuilds and higher-than-expected shipyard-related costs.
We expect our Macondo legal costs to be between $15 million and $20 million per quarter through all of 2013.
Although we expect the Shelf Drilling transactions to close in 2012 we will still be obligated to provide transition and operating services to Shelf Drilling through much of 2013 and some of these services are likely to continue into 2014.
Consistent with the guidance we provided when we announced the transaction we will receive fees from Shelf for providing the operating and transition services and we expect that our ongoing overhead costs related to Shelf will exceed those fees by approximately $15 million to $20 million per quarter.
The total loss that we'll recognize related to providing these services will depend on how long we have to provide them and how quickly we can reduce the related overhead costs.
The losses will be classified as discontinued operations.
We expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $3 billion in 2013 with most of the increases from 2012 related to the newbuild installments on the 2 Aker drillships and the 4 Shell drillships.
Expected future payments for our entire newbuild programs are included in our third quarter 10-Q.
As of 2013 budgets are still not complete.
Our estimates could change materially and will also be affected by changes in timing of shipyards decisions to reactivate more rigs and changes in industry inflation among other factors.
Finally I will focus on our balance sheet.
We remain committed to an improving investment-grade credit rating.
Our objective to reduce gross long-term debt to be between $7 billion and $9 billion and maintain a cash balance of between $3 billion and $4 billion is unchanged.
Both targets exclude the Aker export finance debt of approximately $800 million which is supported by a similar amount of restricted cash included in other current assets and other assets.
Our liquidity target of between $5 billion to $6 billion is also unchanged.
The liquidity target includes consolidated cash our undrawn $2 billion revolver and a new secured credit facility of $900 million issued in October.
The $900 million secured credit facility replaces a similar Aker facility but with considerably better terms.
The secured credit facility is not contemplated as being a permanent part of our capital structure and we intend to eliminate the facility after significant uncertainties such as Macondo are resolved.
To support these balance sheet objectives we plan to deploy available cash flow to retire debt as it matures in 2012 and 2013.
We currently anticipate that our Series C convertible notes will be put to us in December 2012 after which we expect to have more than $4 billion in cash at December 31 which is at -- which is near the high end of our targeted range.
Our 2013 schedule of debt maturities are expected to be about $1 billion with the majority maturing in the first quarter of 2013.
Even with these debt retirements and the capital expenditures I've already described we expect to maintain our cash and liquidity targets throughout 2013.
With that I'll hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Greg and we will miss you.
Hello everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
As Steven mentioned we had a stellar quarter from many perspectives.
We added $10.2 billion of contract backlogs since our last earnings call totaling $15.4 billion from continuing operations year-to-date.
We collaborated with an important customer Shell to design an industry-leading drillship that will be capable of meeting the highest standard of safety environmental and operating efficiency.
The newbuilds are also provisioned to accommodate technical capabilities that are not available today.
The commercial terms associated with the rigs are also industry-leading $7.6 billion of contract backlog for 4 rigs totaling 40 rig years of term.
Year-to-date industry Ultra-Deepwater contract executions totaled 46 fixtures or 160 rig years which is the highest level of fixtures executed since 2008.
This demonstrates the urgent need of our customer and highlights the positive demand outlook for our available fleet as we move into 2013.
Reflecting this demand we contracted the Deepwater Invictus for 3 years with another long-term customer BHP leaving only 1 newbuild the Deepwater Asgard available at the end of 2013.
Some additional market highlights include utilization and dayrates for the Ultra-Deepwater fleet remain at historic highs and our customers continues to secure rig capacity at near record levels over the past 3 quarters.
We continue to see positive momentum for the available units in 2013 and strong interest in the rigs that are available in 2014.
With the high utilization of the Ultra-Deepwater market we're seeing increasing opportunities for our Deepwater fleet.
Tendering and contracting activity in the Deepwater market continued to improve and we are in discussions with several customers to contract the fleet for their 2013 program.
We expect to report more positive news for the rest of our Deepwater fleet with prompt availability.
Midwater activity especially in the U.K.
and the Norwegian North Sea is approaching an all-time high pushing rates over $400 000 per day as evidenced by a multi-well program at $408 000 per day for the Transocean Prospect in the U.K.
Multiple tenders in the U.K.
Norway and Eastern Canada for long-term exploration and development programs are providing opportunities to extend the existing fleet and bring additional Harsh-Environment capacity into the market.
Utilization and dayrates for premium and Standard Jackups remain strong due to steady demand.
This is reflected by solid contracts announced in the key demand areas of the U.K.
Southeast Asia West Africa and the Middle East.
We therefore currently expect the newbuilds arriving in the market in 2012 and 2013 to be absorbed without significant impact on the market dynamics.
Beginning with Ultra-Deepwater let's take a closer look at the various markets.
The Thai Ultra-Deepwater market has the result in favorable pricing opportunities from the high $500 000 per day to well over $600 000 per day per rig with prompt availability.
Ultra-Deepwater demand is primarily being driven by exploration programs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico West Africa East Africa and in other emerging markets.
Asset-intensive development programs resulting from exploration successes and a need to combat declining production from mature fields has compounded the demand for these Ultra-Deepwater assets.
We think that operators' recent exploration successes will result in incremental demand for Ultra-Deepwater rigs over the next several years as field development is more rig intensive than exploration drilling.
As a result we expect existing and incremental Ultra-Deepwater capacity to be fully absorbed.
Since our last earnings call we have been able to secure multiple Ultra-Deepwater contracts totaling approximately 46 rig years worth over $9 billion.
The Deepwater Invictus is one of our most recently contracted fixtures at a clean rate of $595 000 per day exclusive of mobilization for 3 years in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico as previously mentioned and demonstrating our engineering and operational depth of expertise to deliver rigs that will meet Shell's highs expectations.
We were awarded contracts to build 4 drillships with industry-leading capacities which will commence work in late 2015.
And then later the others will follow on in 2016.
Highlighting the strengths as a market and our customers' urgency to continue to contract rigs and this tight market we recently announced the fixture of $600 000 per day for a fifth-generation rig the Sedco Express built in 2001.
Additionally we recently received a letter of award for the Discoverer Americas also at $600 000 per day for 2 years which is not included in the announced contract backlog.
We are also in advanced discussions on our existing Ultra-Deepwater units available in late 2013 and beyond at very attractive rates.
Our confidence in the long-term future of the Ultra-Deepwater market continues to be confirmed by the strong customer interest in the Deepwater Asgard and the remaining fleet available in '13.
Turning to Deepwater.
Due to the previously mentioned tightness in the Ultra-Deepwater market we expect the tendering and contracting activity to continue to improve over the next several quarters.
Recent Deepwater fixtures of over $500 000 per day of our competitors and the open demand particularly in West Africa and Asia we remain confident that we will benefit from these opportunities.
In the Midwater and Harsh-Environment floater market we continue to see strong demand in Norway and the U.K.
where we're close to being sold out for 2013 and are evaluating opportunities to selectively reactivate some of our idle capacity.
Based on inquiries received from our customers we believe that the market will continue to be undersupplied for 2013 and possibly well into 2014 providing ample growth opportunity with a few customers requiring Harsh-Environment newbuilds for their programs.
Since our last earnings call we executed several Midwater contracts totaling over $750 million of contract backlog with approximately 6 years of term.
We secured a leading-edge contract at $365 000 per day for a 2-year term on a GSF Rig 135 in the Congo and $408 000 per day in the U.K.
for a 2-well  program on the Transocean Prospect.
We just signed a contract for $410 000 per day plus bonus for a 32-month term on the GSF Grand Banks in Eastern Canada that is also not included in the announced contract backlog.
Outside of the North Sea the trajectory of demand for Midwater rigs is somewhat less certain and we are actively looking for opportunities for our rigs becoming available in late 2012 and 2013.
Moving to the jackup market demand for premium and Standard Jackups remained strong.
Since our last earnings call we've been able to secure multiple contracts across our entire jackup fleet totaling approximately 9.5 rig years.
Increased utilization has resulted in rates for High-Specification Jackups moving over $150 000 per day as evidenced by long-term fixtures in West Africa and over $200 000 per day in the U.K.
Non-Harsh-Environment premium units are commanding rates in the $160 000 per day.
Dayrates for Standard Jackups range from $97 000 per day for lower-capacity rigs to about $130 000 per day for higher-specification Standard Jackups.
In summary the tight market in all asset categories coupled with the continuing exploration successes maturation of some large development programs and emerging plays continue to support our view of ample opportunity to contract the existing fleet or for future growth of our customers.
This concludes my overview on the market so I'll turn it back to you Steven.
Thank you.
Shannon.
With that we're ready to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Research Division</strong> The first question for you Steven is congratulations on signing the 4 newbuilds for the construction.
Do you see today additional opportunities for -- over the near term to build additional Ultra-Deepwater rigs? Or do you believe that 4 is manageable and you're not actually seeking additional opportunities at this time? Well I think there's question on the marketplace there and I'll let Terry comment on that in a minute.
We remain focused on achieving some well-articulated balance sheet objectives that we think are fundamental to allow us to continue to execute our business plan going forward.
Greg talked about those in his comments our gross debt target of $7 billion to $9 billion and our liquidity target.
So we would want to make sure that any opportunities we pursue are seen in that context.
We've got to continue to focus on ensuring that our balance sheet is supportive of the strong investment-grade credit rating we're looking for.
I'll let Terry talk about what opportunities might be out there in the marketplace.
We're in solid discussions with quite a few of the customer base and we are encouraged that looking beyond certainly 2014 and '15 that they are still talking about future development programs so they're going to need -- simply need more rigs.
And we find that to be very encouraging and certainly supports all the comments that we've made about how we believe in the strength and long-term view of the the Ultra-Deepwater market.
So yes I think there's more to come.
And if you look at open demand today that's not just what's public.
That's not open demand that us and our competitors are in private conversations with our customers.
But today you see 17 to 20 opportunities that are on the books.
So I think that it's strong and the conversations are still very fruitful.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And then as an related follow-up answer as you can are you today Steven in active conversation with the Department of Justice today? And have you had any conversations at all with the Plaintiff's Steering Committee recently? On those 2 specific points Angie I'm probably not going to say anything more than what's already in our disclosures regarding the investigations with the DOJ the PSC and BP and all the other parties that are involved in the Macondo litigation.
Our next question is from Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple more fleet questions.
So when we think about the Sedco 706 in Brazil what's sort of the outlook for that rig over the next sort of couple months? The Sedco 706 doesn't become available in 2013.
She's under contract still with Chevron at this time.
Research Division</strong> But isn't that the rig...
They've just -- yes it's the rig that was involved in Frade.
But we're -- Chevron is in discussions at the moment trying to assign the rig to Petrobras so that it can remain active in Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just sort of switching gears to the Midwater rigs that you have coming on.
Are you able to provide any sort of outlook guidance on the Grand Banks and the Arctic I? Yes well on the Grand Banks I just mentioned in the commentary that we just signed a 32-month contract.
So that will certainly keep her occupied for the next 3 years.
So we're excited about that.
We just signed that this last week.
The Arctic I we are looking for opportunities.
There are some short-term opportunities in Brazil with other customers.
So we are in discussions but we don't have anything planned stuff right now.
But keep in mind that this is a U.K.-capable rig that -- there is also that opportunity should that present itself to be able to relocate it to another market.
Research Division</strong> And would there be any sort of upgrade and maintenance required to get it back into the U.K.? Yes there would be.
Research Division</strong> And can you give sort of any guidance on how -- the timing of that and the cost? We haven't really looked at that because we tried to do -- so we tried to match those opportunities with the long-term program to make it economically feasible to do so and we just haven't looked into that type of upgrade as of this time.
Our next question is from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Steven you -- well we've -- it's become perfunctory this quarter for everyone to ask the MLP question to the management teams of the offshore drillers.
But you are in the unique position of having an incoming CFO who was -- who did all of the heavy lifting on that for Seadrill over the past year.
So I wonder if you have any different comments to provide on the applicability of that structure to a part of your business.
Particularly a part of your business that looks like your Shell contracts with that 10-year term tenor et cetera is it something being kicked around or not? I'll tell you Ian I'm going to let our outgoing balance sheet and capital structure expert Greg give you our perspective on that.
Ian we've actually looked at this talked to the various banks watched as Seadrill did their transaction.
And we're going to continue to look at it and continue to monitor how MLP in the contract drilling space actually performs over time.
Does it makes it sense long term for drilling contractors such as transactions -- Transocean? So it's certainly interesting.
It's something we have and will continue to look at.
But we've not come to any conclusion at this time.
Research Division</strong> All right pretty political.
Follow-up question.
Did you -- Greg did you quantify or describe the amount of shipyard deferrals that benefited the third quarter from revenue and/or the cost prospectives? I didn't quantify them.
There was one shipyard that was deferred that benefited cost and revenues.
And so that's now expected to occur in the fourth quarter.
There were also several very significant extraordinary maintenance projects where the parts came in a little late so they didn't get performed in the third quarter and had been or will be performed in the fourth quarter.
So both those timing differences had shifted some costs to the fourth quarter.
In addition we have some contract prep shipyards and shipyards that we reported in the October Fleet Status Report that -- so the overall level of shipyard activity is increasing significantly in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter.
And so that's kind of hurt revenues relative to the third quarter and increased costs relative to the third quarter.
Our next question is from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the 93% guidance for next year could you talk a little bit to what you have left to deal with as far as upgrade of the legacy systems with control systems or via piece [ph] versus what is just a regular-shaped -- scheduled maintenance? In terms of the upgrades we have been including in our Fleet Status Report the number of systems that have been recertified and the outlook for continuing projects in the future that have an element of recertification to them.
So that information is pretty readily available in the Fleet Status Report.
When we talk about the guidance for next year because that is the -- a measure of the rig's performance on location what we're talking about is just the continued implementation of this simple recipe we've been focusing on for the last year 1.5 years now.
And that's rigorous inspections a standardized maintenance and thorough pre-deployment testing and including that and implementing that across the entirety of the fleet.
And when we talk about that there's a lot of underlying material that has to be put in place particularly when -- in the context of these standardized maintenance tasks and pre-deployment testing.
Significant element of focus internally with respect to putting in place the checklists and the standard preventive maintenance tasks that's what our corporate group is focused on.
And then those are rolled out across the fleet and implemented across the fleet.
So it's just the continued focus on the implementation of that recipe is going to -- and that has allowed us so far to demonstrate improvement and that's going to continue to allow us to demonstrate improvement going forward.
Research Division</strong> So where you stand a moment is this improvement the way you had your performance here in the last quarter? Would you say that this is a function now of a company-wide system that's up and running and  that's working? Or was there something that helped to really boost it this quarter? I wouldn't say there was anything unique and different this quarter other than you're starting to see the meaningful and material results of what we have been focused on for the past year or 18 months now.
So I give our corporate team a lot of credit for talking relentlessly about the model about the recipe and for putting in place all of the underlying documentation and the infrastructure that needs to be in place for our rig teams around the world.
And I give the guys offshore a lot of credit for embracing the model and utilizing the tools and systems and applying those rigorously to deliver these kind of results.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to see the results that's coming to you now.
And Greg just one question for you.
I might have misheard you.
But I think there was a reference to this $3 billion CapEx number for 2013.
Did you mean 2013? Or did you refer to the remaining newbuilding CapEx from 2013 onwards? No the $3 billion was for -- just for 2013.
So we've got the final installments on the 2 Aker newbuilds.
So those are very significant right before they get delivered in late '13 early '14.
And then we have the installments on the 4 Shell newbuilds that kick in at various milestone payments during the year as well as we've got final installments on our newbuild jackups coming out.
And then capital expenditures on our ongoing shipyard rework programs and everything as well as some increasing capital expenditures related to -- as we continue to build up our capital spares related to the -- all the various subsea efforts Steven has described.
So all that together aggregates to roughly $3 billion.
I would caution though we're still finalizing our budget so that's still a rough estimate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Sure sure.
I mean you might have mentioned it but of the $3 billion what was the -- what were the maintenance CapEx? We haven't -- we'll defer until February once we've completed our budgets.
And then Esa can give you all the details of the final budgeted CapEx for 2013.
Our next question is from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It seems that the revenue efficiency was a big driver here.
And from the prepared comments I take it that there's almost 2 components to that.
There's the game plan or the recipe as you call it but also the new -- the enhanced terms on the contracts.
I'm wondering if you could break that apart and maybe describe the relative impact.
What was more impactful this quarter? And what do you see more -- a bigger driver to the 93% guidance for next year? Look in terms of where we have been Collin and the results we've been able to report so far I would say that the vast majority of that is due to this simple recipe of the guys offshore executing the systems and tools and processes to improve the performance of the equipment.
We haven't really seen in a meaningful way any of the new contract terms and conditions that Terry and her team around the world have been able to negotiate with our customers.
We haven't really seen any of those kick in yet.
So the vast majority of what we've been able to accomplish has been due to the operating folks across the fleet.
Going forward as the contracts start to come into play as rigs start to roll through these improved terms and conditions you'll see an impact due to the -- due to those improved terms and conditions.
But we haven't seen that yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's interesting.
So essentially it's fair to say that by and large with -- even if we haven't had new contract terms coming forth in the marketplace the revenue efficiency would have been what you actually reported this quarter? Yes.
Yes I think that's the right way to characterize it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And just to follow up on the cost guidance a lot of moving parts with discontinued and continued.
The 5% to 7% for 2013 just so we're all doing the same math what is the denominator we should be using for that? So probably use the midpoint of our 2012 continuing operating and maintenance cost guidance.
So use that midpoint.
And that 5% to 7% then produces a range for next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just in case -- if I missed it but the -- that range for 2012 was that the $5.4 billion to $5.5 billion.
That's exactly correct.
[Operator Instructions] We will go next to Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys I'm trying to understand a couple of things.
And just to tag on Collin's question again Greg I think the guidance you gave implies a very slight uptick in the cost guidance for 2013.
Yes that's correct.
Now part of that is a function of the Shelf transaction because when we strip out Shelf we have a smaller base that we're working with.
And we had actually expected our Shelf operating and maintenance costs to decline a little bit next year because they had lower shipyard activities that we expected for the Standard Jackups.
So you pull that up -- out and just mathematically it would cause that percentage increase to be higher.
And that's -- So that probably accounts for half of the increase over our previous guidance.
But -- and the rest is as we've worked through our detailed budget we're seeing all the cost pressures that Steven talked about in his opening comments.
And so they're starting to impact our labor costs our maintenance costs.
And so that's accounts for the rest of that uptick in the guidance.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I hate to pin anybody down on politics Greg but are you writing contracts to date to be MLP-able? And are those Shell contracts for the newbuilds MLP-able? We studied the -- and we worked on various MLP-type transactions but we're not necessarily writing anything to be MLP-able.
But that doesn't mean it's not MLP-able.
We have a lot of flexibility in our contracts.
So that -- I can't say we specifically focused on that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So in your estimation you wouldn't have to go back to the customer in order to drop some of these into a structure? We've not done that analysis so I'll pass.
But I wouldn't see that as a big issue.
Our next question comes from Doug Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Given some of the debt parameters the cash balance parameters and just the liquidity is it fair to say that a dividend proposal to the shareholders is unlikely in 2013? Doug we will continue to dialogue with the Board about the deployment of capital.
But I'll tell you if you just do the simple math on what we expect our operating results to be next year and what that might translate into in terms of available cash flow and our ability to use that available cash flow to make progress towards the balance sheet objectives I wouldn't completely rule it out.
But I'll tell you we're really focused on the balance sheet objectives right now.
We want to enhance the company's investment-grade rating.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
And then one just on Brazil.
Do you think Transocean's sized appropriately for Brazil? I guess I'm -- it's kind of scary just how close holding up operations actually took place.
Is that a market that you're looking to have less exposure to going forward? And just the latest thoughts on a potential tender to bridge the gap to the newbuilds that Petrobras is ordering.
I'll tell you Doug we like our position in Brazil.
We've been in Brazil for 40 years and over the course of that 40 years we've seen really good times and we've seen some not-so-good times.
We've got an excellent relationship with Petrobras.
And I -- particularly in the context of the recent situation we've just gone through you mentioned how close we came to that injunction taking effect.
I want to tell you how pleased I am with the support we got from Petrobras in that situation.
They continue to be a very supportive customer in helping us work through the litigation and the Frade situation.
We're focused on helping Petrobras just like we are with any other customer to execute their plans.
And if that means we get an opportunity to add to our position down there under the right the right circumstances we would embrace that opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And any potential tenders? You kind of think that you've been pushed off for that a bit but just potential tenders down there? This is Terry.
I just returned from Brazil.
And what we're seeing now is we're seeing that they're trying to focus their efforts now on the pre-salt.
Basically you're going to see a lot of the rigs switching over to certainly development drilling so that they can improve their balance sheet.
And I think they may take a pause here for a little while just so they can reorganize and get focused on their pre-salt drilling.
Our next question is from Judd Bailey with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> First question.
And I apologize on this but did you guys give the or give any payment terms on the Shell drillships on what -- how that breaks out over the next couple of years? We haven't talked specifically about the contracts themselves and the payment terms associated with those contracts.
But if you look in our 10-Q you can see the remaining commitments that are associated not only with the Shell newbuilds but the Aker newbuilds and the 3 remaining -- couple of floaters jackups as well.
So that's all detailed in the 10-Q.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll take a look.
My second question is regarding operating cost going forward.
I mean you gave pretty decent guidance.
But my question if you guys sell some of your older assets if you sell some more floating rigs or the remaining jackups there's obviously going to be an impact on direct operating costs.
But can you help us think about where costs could be reduced further in terms of maybe older rigs had a lot of maintenance maybe marketing was more cost intensive things of that nature.
How should we think about it? As your older lower-spec portion of your fleet gets smaller how can we think about from a big picture standpoint you lowering your operating costs maybe more so than what we're all modeling? I think the real question there Judd is as the fleet size adjusts over time in response to the execution of our asset strategy we've got to continue to focus on the cost structure of the company.
And by that I mean primarily the overhead.
The elimination of a rig here or a rig there and in the case of the Shelf Drilling transaction 38 drilling rigs those obviously take away the direct operating costs of the company.
But we've got to focus on ensuring that the overhead structure responds the same way the fleet does to the execution of the asset strategy.
Research Division</strong> And where would you say you are in that process in terms of evaluating your overhead? I mean are you far along in that? Or is that something that's going to be more a process for 2013? That's just really taking on a little bit of momentum now.
The focus up until now and really for the next couple of months is on closing the Shelf Drilling transaction.
And then we'll shift all of that energy and passion within the company from getting the Shelf Drilling transaction done to reevaluating our overhead and making sure that the overhead responds to the reduction in the fleet size.
Our next question is from Robert Jensen [ph] with Plateau [ph] Markets.
Following the disposal of the standard jackups you're left with a relatively low presence in the jackup market.
I'm just thinking where -- are you -- do you see appetite for increasing the jackup fleet? And how should we think about some secondhand transaction versus newbuilds? The answer to the first part of your question Robert is absolutely.
When I talk about the asset strategy and increasing our focus on high-spec assets I am conscientious when I talk about it being High-Spec Jackups and High-Spec Floaters.
So we will look for opportunities to build on the company's presence in the high-spec jackup market.
Whether that's through secondhand transactions or the opportunity to build to contracts like we were successful in securing with Chevron I'm a little bit less specific about that right now.
I want to increase our presence in the jackup market because that's an important component of the business for us.
But it's at the high end of that jackup market.
I want to add to the company's high-spec position in jackups.
Sure.
But is there any specific number of jackups that we should think about as a sort of a decent size of the fleet? No I wouldn't attach a specific number to it at this point.
Okay.
And then secondly on the floater side you mentioned again reactivation of floaters.
Can you handicap a bit for us? So which rigs are you looking to reactivate and which ones that we could look at as disposal candidates? Well we've looked at over last several months reactivating some units in the North Sea.
There's a significant demand there.
And again when we do this we look at the amount of program needed to reactivate and also to provide the right economic return for us.
So we've looked at -- lately we have looked at 2 units.
And one is in the North Sea which was the Sedco 712; and then also the other was the Transocean Richardson.
So we're still in evaluation process.
I can't handicap that for you right now but other than we'll continue to have those discussions and see if it makes sense.
And if I might squeeze in one more.
What's happening with the GSF Explorer? Can you update how long that will that be in the yard and where you would likely put that to work? Right now she's having her BOP recertified in the shipyard.
And we are in an active tender right now which is very promising and we hope to have some good results here in the next 3 weeks.
And we will take our last question from Matt Conlan from Wells Fargo.
Just wanted to follow up on Brazil a little bit quickly.
With the rapid cost inflation there and the government issues are you able to change your contract terms specifically with Petrobras to give you some more protection against those issues? Matt when we were negotiating some of the higher-spec jackups earlier in the cycle we were able to use a modified contract with Petrobras and that was the Cajun Express.
All of our other contracts had been under the standard Petrobras contract which there's not a lot of negotiation in that because in a standard tender if you take exceptions you're disqualified.
So you're pretty much there.
If you're going to participate there you're going to use their contract.
Having said that they do have some indices [ph] that do protect against some costs but not all the costs.
So it's the way that we do business in Brazil.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so your protection will have to come from some premium rates? Is that a fair assessment? That's how you protect -- that's a fair statement.
And I mean also it would be just not the premium rates.
You have to look at it as a strategic market.
I mean you're getting a lot of long-term opportunities there.
So it's a -- it would be a portfolio effect right? So we've been there for 40 years.
And over those years it's been a protected market for us.
When we go into these cycles the ups-and-downs cycles it's been very good to us and we've been able to work there for a very long time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And again congratulations on the operational performance this quarter.
Thanks Matt.
We've been working hard and we're going to continue to work hard.
LLC Research Division</strong> Good to hear.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I will turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda for closing remarks.
Thanks very much for your participation today.
Diane [ph] and I'll be available over the course of the day to respond to any additional questions you have and we'll talk to you again and report the fourth quarter in early 2013.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q4 and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tom.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's fourth quarter and full year 2012 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules is posted on the Company's website at deepwater.com.
We've also posted a file containing four charts that may be referenced during today’s call.
The file can be found on the Company's website by selecting Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and then PowerPoint Charts.
The charts include average contracted day rate by rig type out-of-service rig months operating and maintenance cost trends and a chart illustrating historic and forecasted out-of-service rig days by asset class for the years 2008 through 2013.
The Quarterly Toolkit includes four additional financial tables for your convenience covering revenue efficiency and other revenue details daily operating and maintenance costs by rig type and contract intangible revenues.
Joining me on this morning's call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikaheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I'd like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results estimated loss contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident the board’s recommendation for the return of capital to shareholders including the timing and amount of the proposed dividend projected outcome of shareholder voting on any matters to be present at our annual general meeting and the prospects for the contract drilling business.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it's inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the Company's most recent most Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions proved incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Reg G.
As I indicated earlier you'll find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most recently comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally and importantly to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thanks very much.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analyst.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
There is a lot to talk about today so let me get started with the numbers as you saw from our earnings press release we reported adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $330 million or $0.91 per diluted share including a $126 million in net favorable discreet tax items and income from discontinued operations we reported net income attributable to controlling interest for $456 million or a $1.26 per diluted share.
Esa will take you through the numbers including our updated guidance for 2013 in a moment.
Our adjusted results underscore the continued progress we have made in improving our execution in the field.
At 94.7% fourth quarter revenue efficiency from continuing operations compares favorably with the 94.9% in the third quarter.
Supporting this quarter-on-quarter trend was our ultra-deepwater fleet which delivered the second consecutive quarter of revenue efficiency in excess of 95% as our operating results have continued to improve our main challenge is shifting from step change improvement to long term sustainability.
Although we do not expect it to have a significant effect on our business in 2013 the recent industry wide problem associated with the need to replace original equipment manufacturer defected bolts in our subsea connectors is a reminder of the potential variability in our revenue efficiency.
However I’m confident in the technical changes we have implemented to improve the performance and the liability of our equipment.
In addition to the condition progress in our operating results during the quarter we also made strides in the two other key strategic issues facing the company.
The execution of our asset strategy and the resolution of Macondo liabilities.
At the end of November we closed the sale of 38 shallow water rigs to shelf drilling this large scale transaction combined with continued success in single asset sales of non-core floaters and jackups substantially reduces the company’s exposure to low specification rigs.
Divesting these rigs improves our long term competitiveness and furthers the strategic imperative of focusing on ultra-deep water and high specification floaters and jackups.
Continuing to invest in our fleet is critical to enhancing our long term competitive position and in this regard our new built program continues on schedule.
We recently named two of our three new jackups the Transocean Siam Driller and the Transocean Andaman and we expect these premium rigs to commence their long term contracts with Chevron in Thailand on time in the coming months.
We’re also close to finalizing a contract for the ultra-deep water new build Deepwater Asgard the only rig we have currently under construction without a contract.
Also we’re in advance discussions with a major integrated international oil company for the construction one dual activity dynamically-positioned ultra-deepwater drillship with an anticipated delivery in late 2015.
Consistent with the shell newbuilds this rig is expected to be equipped with industry leading hoisting capacity a second blow-out preventer system and be outfitted to accommodate a future upgrade to a 20 000 PSI blowout preventer.
In January we filled settlements with the civil and criminal divisions of the U.S.
Department Justice on Macondo.
Both of those settlements have now being accepted and entered by the courts.
It is important to note that the settlement with the civil division does not include the resolution of Natural Resource Damages or NRDA nor these settlements address potential liabilities with the Gulf Coast states or Plaintiff Steering Committee.
Phase I of the multi-district litigation civil trial regarding these remaining potential liabilities commence last week and we’re well prepared to argue our case on strong and compelling merits.
As you may have seen on Friday the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals issued in opinion holding that under the terms of our lending insurance layer BP has coverage as an additional insured for pollution claims.
We’re disappointed in the decision and our council will be considering our options going forward.
Even if the decision stands however we continue to be a full insured under our policies and we will push through our clients for insurance payment and reimbursement in the district court where we will seek our fair share of the policy proceeds under contractual and equitable principals.
Regarding the project field incident in Brazil you may have recently seen the favorable court decision that the judge denied the criminal charges against Transocean and our employees.
We recently learned that the prosecutor has filed an appeal but we remain confident in our position and we’ll rigorously pursue final and comprehensive resolution of the underlying litigation.
We also continue to defend the company against alleged claims in conjunction with the unfounded and merit list allegations of tax fraud dating back more than a decade in Norway.
The Criminal Tax trial started in December and decisions are not anticipated until early 2014.
However on Friday the Oslo District Court announced a favorable ruling on the Arcade civil tax assessment case.
The court completely overturned the tax assessment issued by the Norwegian authorities and dismissed its claim.
While appealable we believe that this ruling should have positive implications for other outstanding tax litigation in Norway.
In summary I believe we’re making good progress in improving our operating results executing our asset strategy and resolving the uncurtaining associated with major litigation in the U.S.
Brazil and Norway.
That said there is still much work to be done.
We’re focused on creating value for our stakeholders through the disciplined capital allocation strategy which includes maintaining a strong flexible balance sheet and remaining an investment grade issuer of debt profitably reinvesting in our business through value enhancing growth opportunities and distributing excess cash through our shareholders.
Through this latter point as you have probably already seen we announced several key proposals that our board is recommending to our shareholders for the upcoming annual general meeting scheduled for May 17th.
This includes the distribution of the dividend out of additional patent capital of $2.24 per share or approximately $800 million in the aggregate.
We recognize that a key component of the dividend is its sustainability and the potential for growth in the future as business conditions warrant.
We believe that this distribution creates value while providing us with the adequate flexibility to capitalize on profitable investment opportunities such as contract (inaudible) and to continue to reduce our debt to targeted levels.
Esa will talk more about this in a few minutes.
Following the shelf drilling transaction we commenced an organizational efficiency initiative to ensure that the company responds to the changes in the size and composition of our fleet with a more efficient and focused overhead structure.
The 2013 cost guidance that Esa will provide is for a steady state Transocean with no impact from the initiative.
Even though the project will take shape this year I do not expect that it will have a significant impact on 2013’s cost since any reduction in cost due to organizational changes will likely be offset by onetime expenses in restructuring charges.
I do expect that the initiative will have a meaningful effect on cost structure in 2014 and onwards and I intend to share more about this as the project progresses and plans mature.
With that Esa let’s go through the numbers.
Thank you Steven and good morning and good afternoon everyone.
It is a great pleasure to be able to talk to you about our business and results.
In March 2012 we announced our intent to discontinue the operations of our drilling management services in the shallow waters of the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico after completion of our remaining contracts.
In December 2012 we completed the final contract and discontinued offering these services in this region.
As such during the fourth quarter we reclassified the related operating results to discontinued operations and all prior piers (ph) have been reclassified.
These reduced 2012 revenues and cost by approximately $100 million each.
All of my comments including relevant comparisons to prior periods reflect only continuing operations.
As Steven mentioned we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $456 million or $1.26 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our fourth quarter results included $126 million in net favorable items as follows; $111 million associated with favorable discreet tax items in certain jurisdictions and $25 million of net income from discontinued operations as we had anticipated.
Excluding these items our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $330 million or $91 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings of $1.40 for diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 our consolidated revenues from audio gap 1:29_4<sup>th</sup> from continuing operations decreased by $105 million to $2.33 billion compared with $2.43 in the prior quarter.
Contract drilling revenues decreased $35 million primarily due to increased out of service time which was partly offset by higher average day rates.
The increase in (inaudible) cost in late 2012 and within our 2012 guidance range our fourth quarter operating and maintenance expenses were $1.44 billion reflecting an increase of $117 million compared with $1.32 billion in the third quarter of 2012.
Contract drilling operating and maintenance cost increased by $173 million primarily due to high shipyard and maintenance cost.
This was partly offset by $56 million related to reduced activity in our international drilling management services business that I already mentioned.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized interest income was $167 million compared with $165 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Increases in interest expense from our $1.5 billion bond offering to prefund our new build drill ships were mostly offset by higher capitalized interest related to the new build program.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $278 million compared with $280 million in the prior quarter.
General and administrative expenses decreased to $65 million for the fourth quarter compared with $69 million in the previous quarter.
The annual affected tax rate from continuing operations after adjusting for unusual items was 17.8% for 2012 reflecting a decrease from an adjusted 20.5% for the nine months ended September 30th primarily due to the blend of tax that is assessed based on revenues versus tax on taxable income and some foreign exchange effect.
The actual effective tax rate of the negative 20.7% for the fourth quarter reflects the $37 million approximately $0.10 per diluted share favorable adjustment required to decrease our annual effective tax rate as well as the favorable discreet tax adjustment previously mentioned.
Net cash flow generated from operations increased to $923 million in the fourth quarter compared with $787 million in the third quarter of 2012.
Capital expenditures was $657 million in the fourth quarter up from 225 million in the prior quarter.
This was primarily due to initial shipyard payments associated with the four newbuild drill ships.
The disposal of non-core assets in discontinued operations generated proceeds of $593 million which primarily related to the divesture of 38 shallow water rigs to shelf drilling.
The difference between the shelf proceeds actually received during the quarter and the $1.05 billion sales price relates to the $195 million in seller (ph) financing the working capital adjustments and the pending sale of inventory held until completion of the operating agreements.
Finally we utilize $1.7 billion of cash to retire our Series C convertible notes in December 2012.
Net cash on hand was $5.1 billion at the end of the fourth quarter down from about 6 billion at the end of the third quarter 2012 primarily due to the retirement of the convertible debt probably offset by cash generated from operations.
As promised I will now update our full year 2013 guidance.
We maintain our review efficiency guidance of approximately 93% for the fleet for 2013.
We have experienced several courses of improving revenue efficiency and continue to believe that historical revenue efficiency levels was about 95% are within our reach.
However as Steven mentioned our revenue efficiency will fluctuate particularly in a zero tolerance environment.
We do not normally provide quarterly revenue efficiency guidance but given the industry wide associated with the original equipment manufacturer defective bolts as well as some other unrelated well controlled equipment downsize on certain ultra-deepwater rigs during the first quarter.
We believe it is now warranted.
Our revenue efficiency for the first few months of 2013 has been approximately 90%; although we expect March to improve our first quarter revenue efficiency will be below our annual guidance of 93%.
Excluding downsize and associated with replacing these defective O&amp;M bolts our first quarter revenue efficiency would be generally in-line with our 2013 guidance.
Other revenues are expected to be between $400 million and $420 million for the full year 2013 in line with last year.
Other revenues include our international drilling management services and recharge revenues from our customers.
Our updated operating and maintenance expense guidance is generally in line with the preliminary guidance provided on the last earnings call.
We currently estimate our full year OEM cost to be between $5.7 billion and $5.9 billion.
These represents a 6% to 10% increase of our full year 2012 O&amp;M costs from continuing operations excluding Macondo well loss contingences.
The increase over 2012 O&amp;M cost is due to the following first hiring service daily cost of operating our rigs in both labor and maintenance.
Second increased activity associated with our three premium new build jackups commencing operations in 2013 as well as training and development of cruise to man our build rigs.
And third higher shipyard related cost impart to process build and the reactivation of SEDCO 712.
The low end of our O&amp;M guidance range assumes lower shipyard and maintenance costs and lot more than expected inflation conversely the higher end of the range assumes higher shipyard and maintenance costs and further increased inflationary pressures.
Also included in O&amp;M cost is estimated Macondo related legal expense of about $15 million to $20 million per quarter which is unchanged from the preliminary guidance.
As Steven already mentioned the 2013 cost guidance is for a steady state Transocean with no impact from the organizational efficiency initiative as in savings and cost in 2013 will likely be offset by onetime expenses and restructuring charges.
We expect that our organizational efficiency initiative will indeed have a meaningful impact on our cost in 2014 and thereafter and we will provide additional guidance later this year.
The shipyard activity provided in our most recent fleet state of report continues to represent our current best estimate of how to service time.
Additionally we continue to advice caution as it is not uncommon for unplanned or exceptional shipyards to significantly increase our out of service time.
We’re not able to predict such exceptional shipyards and consequently they are not included in our fleet stated reports.
As a result of our annual budgeting and forecasting process we have recently released our initial estimates of 214 service time.
As a guideline given the frequency of surveys on average one should expect that about 20% of our fleet will be out of service for some period of time each year.
We perform various other maintenance upgrade or refurbishment projects in conjunction with these surveys.
As we respond to businesses and commercial conditions our out of service time can be accelerated or delayed to accommodate the timing of customer well programs as well as the optimization of shipyard scheduling to better align we have contracted timing and improved overall profitability.
We expect depreciation expense will be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion for 2013.
G&amp;A costs are expected to range between $280 million and $300 million similar to our O&amp;M guidance the G&amp;A cost do not include any savings related to our organizational efficiency initiative.
We expect our interest expenses again net of interest income and capitalized interest to be between $540 million and $550 million.
Capitalized interest and interest income are expected to be approximately $90 million and $50 million respectively.
We currently expect the annual affected tax rate from 2013 to be between 18% and 22%.
Consistent with the guidance provided when we announced the shelf drilling transactions we also expect that our ongoing net overhead cost related to shelf will exceed receipts by approximately $15 million to $20 million per quarter.
These losses will be reflected as discontinued operations.
At 2013 capital expenditures guidance is unchanged at approximately $3 billion; the $3 billion comprises new build CapEx of approximately $1.7 billion by the way not including the potential additional new builds Steven has already mentioned.
Sustaining CapEx of thus $600 million major upgrades and refurbishments of approximately $400 million and CapEx associated with spare parts for our ongoing efforts to improve operational performance of about 300 million as well.
These costs relate to item such as subsea spares and we expect to have materially completed the buildup of capital spares build by the end of 2013.
After 2013 capital costs related to this (inaudible) should decrease considerably.
As scheduled and expected annual payments for our entire newbuild program is now included on our website.
Finally I’ll turn my focus to the balance sheet as a result of the partial DOJ settlement Macondo we have reevaluated our liquidity targets and revised them downward.
In the context of remaining uncertainties we now believe it is appropriate to maintain total liquidity between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion which is down from the previous range of $5 billion to $6 billion.
The targets are inclusive of the cash balance between $1 billion and $1.5 billion necessary to meet operational working capital and other requirements related to our business.
Both cash and liquidity targets exclude the (inaudible) finance debt of approximately 800 million which is supported by a similar amount of restricted cash included in other current assets and other assets.
The liquidity targets include consolidated cash our undrawn $2 billion revolver and the secured credit facility of $900 million issued in October 2012.
The secured credit facility is not contemplated as being a permanent part of our capital structure and we intent to eliminate the facility at the significant uncertainties are resolved.
As Steven mentioned the Board of Directors is recommending to our shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting to approve a U.S.
dollar denominated dividend of $2.24 per share which equals slightly over $800 million in aggregate.
The dividend will be payable in four quarterly installments with the four payment dates to be set for June September and December 2013 and March 2014.
The dividend produces a yield payment that is competitive with our peers and represents an initial yield of about 4.3% based on Friday’s closing share price.
One of the boards objectives is established the dividend at a level that in the context of a very capital intensive cyclical industry and considering the significant uncertainties that the company currently still faces permits the company to continue to progress towards achieving its gross debt targets and provide adequate flexibility to reinvest in the fleet.
We believe that the proposed level of dividends satisfies this objective as well as the objective of distributing excess cash to shareholders.
This level of the dividend is intended to be sustainable and it provides a basis for future increases assuming business remains.
The board will consist with historical practice in accordance with applicable law continue to evaluate the business and consider the distribution of excess cash to shareholders on an annual basis.
As a reminder we remain committed to a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit rating and as such our debt target remains unchanged which is to reduce gross long term debt between $7 billion and $9 billion.
The advantage of this objective the company intends to accelerate debt repayment by retiring approximately $1 billion in debt in excess of existing scheduled maturities by the end of 2014.
In January 2013 we called approximately $270 million of our Senior Unsecured callable bonds due February 2016 towards this $1 billion goal.
Scheduled maturities in 2013 and 2014 are expected to be $1 billion and $600 million respectively with the majority of 2013 maturing in the first quarter.
These figures exclude the payment obligations associated with the partial DOJ settlement on Macondo.
Even with the debt retirements capital expenditures and the proposed dividend distribution we will maintain our cash and total liquidity within the target range throughout 2013.
With that I’ll hand over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Esa and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific market I would like to make a few general comments.
We closed out at great year for 2012 with 16.9 billion of contract backlog including contract for one existing newbuild the Deepwater Invictus and the additional four shale newbuild drill ship.
Tendering for 2012 exceeded level not being since 2008 and the tight market provided numerous opportunities to improve our day rates of our previous contracts for all asset classes.
While the tendering pace remains high for ultra-deepwater floaters contract awards have taken an extended period of time to execute mainly because of regulatory tendering requirements.
Additionally the combination of some customers not extending their existing ultra-deepwater fleet together with Petrobras release upon contract exploration of deepwater and mid-water unit are causing a somewhat slower absorption of available floater capacity in the near term.
However long term fundamentals remain positive and numerous customers are demonstrating their willingness to continue grow their fleet.
Some additional market highlights the ultra-deepwater market remains tight with customers paying 600 000 per day plus for high cost environment and mid to high 500s per day for lower cost areas.
We continue to see opportunities for the available units in 2013 and strong interest in the rigs that are available in 2014; also deepwater demand continues to be driven by exploration programs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico West Africa East Africa and in other emerging market.
With a continued success in customers drive to replace reserves we believe that incremental ultra-deepwater demand in Africa and U.S.
Gulf of Mexico alone over the next three years could absorb the incremental supply coming to the market.
We continue our marketing efforts for the recently GSF Explorer and have been in discussions with several customers regarding her near term availability.
Also as Steven mentioned we’re in advance discussions with a major integrated international oil company for the construction on one drilling activity dynamically positioned ultra-deepwater drill ship with an anticipated ex-shipyard delivery in the fourth quarter 2015.
This direct negotiation opportunity didn’t strike the trust that our customers are placing in Transocean and the operational excellence they had tend to expect.
We’re also in the final stages of the recent tendering exercise for the deepwater Asgard in Indonesia and believe we’re in position to conclude on these negotiations in the near future.
Our confidence in the long term future of the ultra-deepwater market continues to be confirmed by the customer interest and the remaining fleet available in 2013.
Although the tendering pace of the deepwater market has been relatively quiet in January and February we’re currently in discussions with several customers for contracting opportunities for the 2013 program and expect to report more positive news for the rest of our deepwater fleet with prompt availability.
Mid-water and harsh environment activity especially in the UK and Norwegian North Sea is very high with only four rigs available for the end of 2014 in the UK.
Considering this tightness in the market we’re reactivating the SEDCO 712 in the UK North Sea at $380 000 per day for three years.
Most of the tenders in the UK and upcoming tenders in Norway for long term exploration and development programs are providing opportunities to expand the existing fleet and bring additional harsh environment capacity into the market.
Outside of the UK in Norwegian markets we extended the SEDCO 701 for one year at $311 000 per day in Nigeria.
However the market for midwater rigs and somewhat less certain with the impact at Petrobras’s releasing some of their mid-water fleet upon contract completion.
We’re actively pursuing opportunities for our rigs becoming available in 2013.
Utilization and day rates for premium jackups remain strong due to improving demand and almost all jackup provinces.
This is reflected in the opportunities and discussions we’re currently having with our customers for our available fleet in 2013.
Increased utilization has resulted in rates for high specification jackups moving over a $160 000 per day as evidenced by long term fixtures in West Africa and over $200 000 per day in the UK.
In summary while the near term ultra-deepwater and deepwater market may experience a pause in the level of contracting activity we believe that the continuing exploration success increase in development programs and emerging play support our view of ample opportunity for the existing fleet and for future growth with our customers.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thanks Terry.
Tom with that we’re ready to open it up for questions.
Steven could you give us the first number one your initial thoughts on the potential pros the pursuing an MLP structure and the two how long would it to form one from a legal and accounting perspective could it actually be done in 2013 or would this be a 2014 event and then finally how many rigs or have you considered how many rigs maybe suitable candidates for an MLP.
I’m going to let Esa answer that question because he has got a lot more experience with MLPs than I do.
It's very difficult to say how long it will take to pull one off I think I would start by just saying that we have been evaluating different financing solutions MLP being one of them in terms of the potential value adding elements of an MLP structure clearly be opportunity to monetize future cash flows comes to mind it does have financial flexibility it could offer a yield and that could feed into overall capital allocation strategy.
So generally speaking it's interesting and as we have said already in our press release we’re quite seriously looking into it but with a cool and analytical approach rather than a mad rush I should say.
In terms of timing as I said I’m a little bit uncomfortable to say when we will be in a position to conclude but our analysis is ongoing we’re evaluating the pros and cons of it also recognizing that this is a cyclical industry at the thermal we’re talking about relatively short contracts multi-layered and complicated tax structure the conflict of interest is just and so forth so there is a lot to cover and it is important to us as we do it prudently and we do it well and we know exactly what we’re doing and we know exactly why we’re doing it and perhaps not doing as it may be.
It will take some time I think sidereal experience was that from initiation to IPO took about a year or so of course we can learn from sidereal experience and perhaps accelerate but I think it will be stretched IPO anything this year quite possible.
In terms of assets I think you’re asking for assets as well is suitable for this we clearly have got an attractive and sizeable ultra-deepwater fleet which would fit into an MLP but it will come with a lot of caveats such as complexities around U.S.
tax many of those rigs are Gulf of Mexico operating.
So it's a good portfolio of assets that could fit in the market size is limited so I think up to three ultra-deepwater rigs could potentially be an IPO scope and nothing much more than that.
So yeah you will have to wait and see and we will keep you up-to-date as soon as we make progress.
That’s very good color and then as an unrelated follow-up on the dividend is it fair to assume that a shareholder could propose a larger dividend at the shareholder meeting or do you believe the current dividend is an acceptable compromised all parties? Well we proposed our dividend on the basis of the company’s well-articulated philosophy around capital allocation and so in that context the board has endorsed the proposal and is recommending it to the shareholders.
Steven there has been clear strides made from the operations we can see the revenue efficiency metrics but today you’re announcing organizational efficiency initiative.
What does this new initiative entail that previous efforts haven’t and do you think there is a significant opportunity here to narrow the EBITDA margin gap you see versus the peers or something more structural in nature that would keep that gap in place.
I don’t think there is anything structural that should perpetuate the gap the difference between what we have historically been focused on in the context of rig specific operating improvements and what we’re embarking on now this is focused on our cost structure on our overheads primarily and is really just a recognition that with the shelf transaction the fleet has changed and as a consequence the overheard structure needs to respond to that change and we need to come out of this exercise a more efficient and focused overhead to reflect the changing nature of the fleet.
So I think that will certainly help to improve the company’s financial results going forward but you know as we said as I said during our prepared remarks I don’t expect it to materialize significantly in 2013 it will benefit 2014 going forward.
Understood and then Terry maybe a quick update on the GSF Explorer and should we be thinking about some ideal time between contracts in the millennium and discovery as those rigs have mobility later in the year.
Let’s take the four of it so we have had a couple of good runs that we thought we actually had contracted and then I will need to be surprised by some availability issues with other rigs that actually had a better timing than the explorer did so we missed the few opportunities but we still are in the few discussions right now that we’re hoping will materialize soon but I think that you know it's hard to say if it's going to be two weeks or a month before we get her back to work.
Now talking about the millennium and the DWD (ph) those are certainly a different animal than the Explorer Explorer is an older rig 7800 foot the DWD and the millennium are 10 000 foot newer generation rigs and we do have a lot of interest in those rigs and we’re in some advance discussions with certainly with millennium.
She is currently working offshore East Africa and then also we had the DWD is now in Brazil.
So we’re very positive on being able to put those types of work in direct continuation.
I wanted to make sure I understood Terry what you were saying about the Brazil’s the impact of Brazil releasing midwater rigs we have heard some contractors say that their belief is Petrobras wants to maintain nearly all of the midwater rigs or older generation rigs in that market.
So what are you seeing prospectively in terms rig releasing rigs or potentially upgrading those rigs to higher? Yes well we have seen I mean we are in our own discussions and we have actually one of the rigs the Arctic I has recently left Brazil and but she wasn’t actually contracted with Petrobras she was contracted with one of the independents there but she is left.
And then also understand that Petrobras has kept one rig so far the Borgny Dolphin.
I can’t speak to what our competitors are doing in conversations.
I can only speak to our conversations with Petrobras and we certainly believe that the Falcon 100 at end of her contract will be vigorously pursuing opportunities with her outside of Brazil but we’ve all heard the same rumors that they are going to be reducing some of their mid-water fleet and then also perhaps some of the deepwater fleet.
Okay.
Just on a related question then I have heard another contractor say that Brazil is now the highest offshore operating cost environment in the world with possible exception in Norway and that on contract renewals in Brazil Petrobras may be facing some sticker shock in terms of especially signing long-term contracts on deepwater rigs.
How is – what is your experience with operating costs in Brazil and how confident are you on renewing rigs that you get significant compensation for that? I think that we have certainly high environment cost in Brazil.
I think it’s been a bit of a challenge because of the bit of increase in labor cost but we also have high cost environments in West Africa.
So I wouldn’t necessarily say that one is extraordinarily higher than the other I just think that there are high operating cost environments.
And if when they can start to do their fleet renewal I think it’s going to be a faster – the fleet renewal with the LTD part of fleet they currently have under contract the newer rigs.
I think that there is going to be some good discussion.
Petrobras is always fantastic at negotiating contracts.
So I think there will be.
I think it’s also going to be a picture of if don’t stay in Brazil where are they going to relocate.
And that’s always the question.
It costs money to relocate rigs.
Okay thank you.
Thank you very much.
Question for you guys following the disposal of some of your older standard jack-ups you are left with a relatively small presence in the shallow water market is any appetite there for increasing the jack-up fleet specifically in some of the modern high-end units? Yeah I have talked regularly Robert about remaining competitive in the jack-up space.
And so the company over the last – course of the last couple of years has taken delivery of one new build that’s currently working in Angola the Transocean Honor.
We’ve got three additional rigs under construction that have destined for operations in Thailand with Chevrolet.
And we continue to look for opportunities to increase our presence in the premium and high specification components of the jack-up market.
I want the company to continue to pursue leadership positions in both high-spec floaters and high-spec jack-ups.
Okay.
How would you characterize your view of either acquiring that secondhand or commissioning additional new builds? We are really indifferent as long as the economics are compelling and allow us to add to our position.
So we have shown in the past the ability to do both build and buy.
And so we will continue to look for opportunities to do either one of those.
Okay thanks.
And I guess my final question would be along the lines of ultra deepwater new builds has anything changed in terms of your willingness to build those on spec versus on contract and what’s your appetite for additional deepwater new builds? Well as we indicated in our prepared remarks we are in advanced discussions with the customer to build the rig for them.
And I think that reflects our strong preference for contract at new builds.
So nothing has changed in terms of spec new builds? We still have a strong preference for contract back to new builds.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
I will turn it back.
Hi thanks.
With your last week status in February you showed 1534 days of scheduled downtime for the high-spec fleet and I just wanted to confirm how we should interpret that if we look at your exclude your stack rate that looks like it’s about 34 days on average per rig is that the correct denominator to apply when thinking about your uptime for the high-spec rigs next year? Ian well I am not sure I follow your calculus there.
In terms of providing guidance preliminary guidance for 2014 what we were trying to do was as Esa said in the context of our regular budgeting and forecasting process was provide a first look at 2014 out-of-service time.
And as projects materialize and contracts are signed up that firm up those projects then we are in a better position to allocate specific out-of-service segments through particular rigs.
So trying to make sense of a broad-based asset class out-of-service forecast and derive an average of days per rig I think at this point is a bit premature.
Okay.
Well I guess really what I was going for is the key distinction would be whether any of those days are allocated to rigs which are currently out-of-service or if those days are all allocated to rigs which are currently in service so that I am not clipping rigs for which I was previously expecting revenues? Yeah.
So the only out-of-service rig for which we have provided out-of-service time would be 712 the reactivation of 712 in the North Sea.
Yeah.
So that’s in the order of high spec.
Yeah everything else in our 2014 preliminary forecast is based on currently active rigs.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thanks.
And my follow-up question is really just a follow-up on what I was asking before about your EBITDA margin gap.
And I guess really just a little bit more specifically the market we are and I think most analysts are projecting Transocean at a low 40s EBITDA margin for the next couple of years pretty much all that here is our at least the 45% to 50% projected margins some higher but then when we look historically there have been various explanations for Transocean’s cost structure being a little bit richer and if it’s related to organizational graphs or the complexion of your fleet or what have you I just want to – I don’t want to pin you down too much but 500 to 1000 basis points of margin improvement based on overhead re-organization sounds like a big bridge to cross.
So can you provide anything in the way of what order of magnitude you are targeting here in terms of your margin improvement over the long haul over the next two or three years? I think we are early enough in the process Ian that I am uncomfortable giving you any crisp guidance on that point recognizing the fact that we see the same things you guys do that there is a difference in our cost structure relative to our peer group.
And we have a clear objective to reduce that differential.
Okay.
Well we’ll stay tuned.
Thank you.
Hi Brad.
You might be on mute.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Can you remind me please what level of reactivation expense is embedded in your ‘13 cost guidance? The only reactivation expense that’s embedded in the 2013 cost guidance is $50 million associated with the Sedco 712.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
And can you talk to the prospects for any other reactivations this year? Well we are currently – again we talked about the Artic I which has now gone idle.
And we are currently bidding her into the UK so that would be a sort of reactivation and that we have to upgrade her for UK standards.
Again we are hopeful we are actively pursuing it and that could be one.
Okay I appreciate it.
And just kind of a housekeeping follow-up I am wondering if you could provide any color around the fourth quarter out-of-service cost for the high spec jack-ups was this higher than usual? And I was curious if there was anything that really stood out to drive that in the quarter? Nothing that springs immediately to mind David but I will tell you what we’ll get that circled back up with us.
And if there is anything meaningful we can provide in response to that question we’ll back to you.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Two questions.
I guess first just with respect to the dividend announcement and the accelerated $1 billion I guess first just with respect to the dividend announcement and the accelerated $1 billion debt reduction by the end of ‘14 are those items you ran past the rating agencies before announcing them this morning? Yeah it’s Esa Ikaheimonen here again.
We do have ongoing dialogue with the rating agencies and you know it wouldn’t surprise you to know that we have had some discussions about some of these plans as well.
Part of the whole story is that we want to continue consistent with our existing strategy regarding capital allocation and part of that has been to continuously run a tight ship from the balance sheet perspective and continuously reduce our debts.
So the whole package of proposals and plans have been put together with that partially in mind as well.
So it is our clear expectation that the rating agencies would see that consistency and would see us actually being continuously committed to a strong balance sheet and therefore would find that a positive proposal and a positive plan.
And indications are positive I should say.
Okay.
And then with respect to accomplishing all these goals the debt reduction and the dividend and as well as your capital spending program are you incorporating any assumptions as to asset sales between now and 2014? Yeah when we do our modeling we obviously include significant number of different variables there.
And one of the key items of our cash flow scenario play is obviously the divestment proposals or the divestment opportunities.
We have actually not included much at all in terms of the base case scenario that I spoke about earlier when I said that with the capital expenditure the dividend distribution and the debt pay down we stay within our liquidity target we stay within our liquidity target range with very moderate divestment proceeds but there is opportunity to more of course as and when the economics allow.
Okay.
And then just a final question and I don’t know if there is something you want to comment on or not but can you share with us whether or not you’ve discussed the dividend proposal you’ve made it with Carl Icahn with respect to his request for a $4 per share dividend? Our dividend announcement was only made last night.
And so this is really the first opportunity we have had publicly to talk about.
Okay thank you.
Thank you very much.
My question relates to some of the rigs that were built and delivered in 2009 now as they go into their first five-year service around 2014 should we assume that since these are relatively new rigs that the downtime for the five-year service would be relatively short or do you think that you may take an opportunity and maybe make some changes in some of the rigs and they may be down for longer period of time? Waqar if the work scope is limited to simply complying with the five-year SPS I think that’s relatively manageable.
Now I am not sure what you mean by relatively short and you probably don’t know what I mean by relatively manageable I would say 30 to 60 days if it’s limited for the five-year SPS work scope.
If we take a decision to make a modification like adding a second BOP or if the customer that follow-on customer wants us to do something that could expand and have an impact on the timeline.
So broad-based rule of thumb I am uncomfortable because it just depends on what we decide to do or what the customers ask us to do.
So for a standard five-year service would still be somewhere between 30 to 60 days downtime both for the drill shape or even if it’s a semi? Yeah not a big difference between a ship and the semi in terms of the five-year SPS.
Okay.
No I was just thinking in one case you made because it’s mobile it may take shorter or maybe at least cost less.
And in terms of costs for a standard five-year survey how much would it cost for a new build rig of all nine deliveries? Yeah Waqar I’d probably don’t have a very good number on that right now.
So let us do a little bit of work and we can probably come up with something that is reflective of a simple straightforward five-year SPS work scope.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks guys.
So if I get you right as of the OpEx guidance you provide of $5.7 billion to $5.9 billion that does not include any cost associated with the shelf drilling operations only the reactivation costs for the Sedco 712 is that right? That’s correct.
Okay so it’s only $50 million that’s a bit of – call it one-off item in that guidance? Yeah again that’s correct.
So $50 million is included into those numbers well in that range.
Okay.
A follow-up is more sort of a strategic for you Steven your mid-water fleet and the mid-water fleet in general is getting fairly old but there is still a fair chunk of drilling to be done in that market.
Just wondering how you think about the mid-water segment in general and could we see mid-water rigs being built sort of new builds in that segment or smaller deepwater vessels? Yes absolutely.
I understand there are some customers who have already expressed an interest in renewing their North Sea mid-water floater fleet.
And so we are interested in being a part of those conversations that as you rightly pointed out there is a lot of drilling yet to be done in mid-water areas around the world particularly areas like North Sea and Norway.
And so we would want to be part of those conversations and part of those replacement plans going forward.
So there are no firm plans for the moment that you can disclose I guess? No we don’t disclose anything until it becomes a firm plan.
Alright thanks for that.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
My question is around the $7 billion to $9 billion gross debt target.
Just wondering if we can maybe get a sense of a timeline as to when you would expect to reach the top end of that range? And then maybe strategically how would you prioritize that specific balance sheet build versus say growing the dividend or reinvesting for further growth of the fleet? Yeah it’s Esa Ikaheimonen here.
We are over that debt target as you know very well.
And one of the reasons for us to accelerate some of the repayment is to also accelerate reaching that target range.
We’ll be getting into that target range around 2015 with the current pace also including indeed the acceleration of $1 billion of repayments across ‘13 and ‘14.
In terms of the priority we really actually see this as the package.
It’s not something where we very clearly distinguish our priorities.
We tried to balance it out and we tried to make sure that we actually achieved all of those objectives in not too distant future.
One of them being that the level of overall debts that we have got on our balance sheet another being our ability actually to renew the fleet and grow our business and the third one being returning cash to our shareholders and it really is the balanced approach which we believe is the most shareholder value enhancing longer term.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up there is there what – is there any specific consideration that would drive you towards either end of the range there whether it’s $7 billion by certain point in time and $9 billion by a certain point in time.
Is it a function of what the new build opportunities are going forward or I guess what would decide – what would make you decide to go ahead and pay down an additional $2 billion to reach the lower end? Yeah it’s not – it’s obviously not an exceedingly tight range but it’s a tight enough range that makes us feel quite comfortable.
So I think it is mostly about because a lot of the investments in this industry tend to be a little bit opportunistic.
So that range gives us level of flexibility to utilize opportunities as they come along whether they are new build type of opportunities or more acquisition type opportunities either way but it gives us some flexibility and that is really important because of the nature of investments in this industry.
Okay understood.
Thanks very much.
Hi and thank you.
Just circling back on to your 2013 guidance for O&amp;M cost just looking at and just sort of (decisive) comparison to the preliminary guidance given after your third quarter call.
And you had the $5.4 billion to $5.5 billion with a 5% increase and then you said that the discontinued use of Mexico operating reduces 2012 revenues and OpEx of around about $100 million each is that correct? Yeah you got that correct Charles.
There is a rebase lining sort of situation here because when Steven and Greg were speaking to you in November and gave you the preliminary guidance that change was not implemented yet.
And therefore it was in the base so you kind of have $100 million disappearing of the pace of the base and that’s got an impact.
And then the Sedco 712 is the other kind of big ticket item that has got an impact on that comparison.
And as I said in my initial piece it’s like almost spot on in line with the November preliminary guidance if you just normalize it for those items.
Okay okay excellent.
And then Terry on your new venture towards a new build what kind of term duration are you looking at on such a new build? Is it sort of similar to the Shell data 10 years or? It’s really that I really can’t talk about the duration at the moment.
We are still working on that and as soon as we had some positive feedback we will be certainly happy to share it.
Sorry I couldn’t help you there.
Alright.
How many other similar opportunities are you currently pursuing or are there many out there? Charles we are out there arm wrestling all of our peer groups.
So let’s see what we all come up with.
When you hear all these I mean there is always a bit of rumors here and there right so okay.
Excellent thank you.
Alright thank you all very much for your time and attention today.
We look forward to speaking with you when we report our first quarter 2013 results later this spring.
Don’t hesitate to give Diane or me a call over the course of the next couple of days if you have any follow-on question.
Thanks so much.
Operator we can disconnect now.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Transocean First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Anthony.
Welcome to Transocean’s first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules are posted on the company’s website at deepwater.com.
We have also posted supplemental materials as you may find helpful as you update your financial models.
These materials can be found on the company’s website by selecting Quarterly Toolkit under the Investor Relations tab.
Joining me on this morning’s call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikaheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I would like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts including future financial performance operating results estimated contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident the board’s recommendation for the return of capital to shareholders including the timing and amounts of the proposed dividend projected outcomes of shareholder voting on any matters to be presented at our Annual General Meeting anticipated results of our store-based cost savings initiatives and the prospects for the contract drilling business in general.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it’s inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the company’s most recent most Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Please also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
You will find the required supplemental financial disclosures for these measures including the most recently comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more folks an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thanks for your attention.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven?  Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As you saw from the press release we reported adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $337 million or $0.93 per diluted share including $16 million in net unfavorable items; we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $321 million or $0.88 per diluted share.
Our first quarter results were negatively impacted by disappointing revenue efficiency caused in part by the industry wide need to replace effective OEM goals in our subsea well control equipment.
As you recall when we reported our fourth quarter 2012 results we indicated that this would impact our first quarter performance.
This is unfortunate and a reminder of the potential for variability in our revenue efficiency.
The lower revenue efficiency was most prominent in our ultra-deep water fleet which was affected by both the need to replace the defective bolts and also by unrelated well control equipment problems and other down-time issues.
As I have said consistently our progress with revenue efficiency will not be liner and it is susceptible to temporary setbacks.
However I remain fully confident in the initiatives we have undertaken to improve our operating results.
Our challenge now is to demonstrate the sustainability of the improvements we have delivered in 2012 and we are meeting this challenge.
Esa will take you through the numbers in some detail in a moment.
I will focus the balance of my comments on our strategic objectives as well as our progress and efforts to continuously improve our operating and financial results.
Specifically I will briefly touch on our shore based realignment and cost cutting initiative developments in our assets strategy and fleet competitiveness updates in our new build program our plan to distribution of excess cash to shareholders and the Macondo litigation and other uncertainty.
With respect to our cost cutting measures while we continue to drive sustainable improvement in our revenue efficiency and out of service time.
Our operational focus has expanded to include a critical evaluation of our cost structure as well.
As we have noted in recent calls and discussions with analyst and investors and in our recent press release the initial phase involves a review of our global shore based organization.
This initiative is intended to better align the companies shore based support infrastructure is the composition and geographic distribution of our fleet and is a key component of the company’s plans to improve operating margins.
We expect this restructuring to result in a more efficient and focused shore based organization that provides the highest level of support for the company’s rig operation delivering best in class safety and operational excellence.
As we communicated in our recent press release we expect to reduce our shore based cost around the world by about $300 million annually.
This is an initial step in our efforts to improve the company’s competitiveness and create value for our shareholders and it is a meaningful first step.
Together with improvements in revenue efficiency a reduction in our overhead cost structure and combined with our offshore and project operations initiatives we expect additional improvement in operating margins and we will keep you updated on our progress.
As we have discussed our emphasis on improving our operating and financial results is complemented by our focus on executing our asset strategy and improving the competitiveness of our fleet and we continue to make progress in this area as well.
We have sold three standard jackups during the quarter leaving on four standard jackups built for sale.
There is continued interest from buyers in this asset class and we expect to exit the standard jackup class by year end.
We are also in conversations with prospective buyers interested in certain low spec commodity (inaudible).
This progress and the execution of our asset strategy is all part of our effort to reposition the company as a focused high specification role enhancing our leadership position in ultra-deep water and harsh environment floaters.
Transocean’s competitiveness and importantly our ability to create value for shareholders are directly related to a prudent and balanced approached to the deployment of capital the cyclicality of the industry demands financial flexibility as characterized by a strong investment grade quality balance sheet.
The markets evolving demands which are driven by customers’ needs and asset intensity required discipline high return investment in our fleet.
We remain committed to maintain our focus and continuous improvement on both of these strategic comparatives.
Regarding our current new build program as you know we have recently put delivery at Transocean Siam Driller which commenced to a long term contract with Chevron in Thailand in the fourth quarter and we recently announced the three year contract on the deep water Asgard.
With this award all of our new build rigs under construction are now under contract discussions regarding the potential for additional contracting opportunities continue and Terry will comment more specifically on these shortly.
Along with strengthening our balance sheet and continuing to make disciplined high return investments in our fleet Transocean has a history of returning excess cash to shareholders.
The company has distributed approximately $20 billion to shareholders since 2006.
Consistent with this history Transocean has proposed a $2.24 per share dividend or approval by our shareholders at next week’s AGM.
We believe that the market places a premium on dividend sustainability and growth and we firmly believe that the $2.24 per share dividend we have proposed is the right starting point to ensure that we deliver both sustainability and growth in the context of remaining uncertainties which I will discuss in a moment.
Our focus on improving our revenues and reducing our cost will allow for growth of the dividend in the near-term and high return reinvestment in our fleet will provide for long-term sustainability and growth going forward.
Regarding Macondo it is important to note that no new facts related to Transocean emerge during Phase 1 of the trial.
We remain focused on defending the company against any allegations that we are finding at gross levels.
We have paid the first installment of $400 million of the $1.4 billion settlement with the DOJ which we announced in January.
In Brazil we are encouraged by the court’s dismissal of the criminal claims against the company regarding the project field incident and the regulators’ approval to Chevron to restart operations on the project field.
Both of these steps represent progress in all attempts to achieve a comprehensive resolution regarding this incident.
In Norway the Civil Court’s finding in Transocean favor regarding the tax residency of one of our key subsidiaries further supports our position that our Norway tax filings are materially correct as filed.
We will continue to vigorously depend ourselves in the ongoing criminal litigation.
Before I turn it over to Esa I will offer just a few comments about our Annual General Meeting to be held next week.
As you are likely well aware there are two competing dividend proposals up for shareholder vote the Board’s proposal of $2.24 per share and (indiscernible) proposal of $4 per share.
We are pleased that nearly all those in the analyst community the leading proxy advisors and many of our shareholders have voice support for the company’s $2.24 per share dividend which represents one of the highest inside payout ratios and dividend yields in the industry.
We believe Mr.
(indiscernible) is shortsighted irresponsible and ignores the uncertainties the company currently faces.
We encourage all shareholders to vote for the company’s $2.24 per share dividend.
On the matter of directors we urge all shareholders to conduct appropriate due diligence and exercise prudent judgment when casting our votes for Board nominees.
We believe the Transocean board nominees are the most qualified to serve the best long-term interest of the company and its shareholders.
Our nominees have deep relevant industry expertise and we are confident they will remain focused on generating value for all shareholders.
We recommend that shareholders vote for the companies by experience and highly qualified director nominee.
We believe that board’s function best when regular renewal is balanced with appropriate continuity.
We have added six new directors in the last two years to serve alongside seasoned directors who provide continuity and historical insight given their exceptional institutional knowledge of Transocean our customers and the industry as a whole.
This Transocean board has played a critical role in managing Macondo in the development and the implementation of the operational improvement plan in the cost reduction program and in the proposed $2.24 per share dividend.
And we believe their continued involvement is essential to our ability to continue the progress we have achieved over the past several quarters.
These are important issues but please feel free to call Thad Esa or myself if you would like to discuss it.
With that Esa let’s go through the numbers.
Thank you Steven and good morning and good afternoon everyone.
As Steven mentioned we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $321 million or $0.88 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.
Our results included $16 million in net unfavorable items as follows: $49 million due to a non-cash after-tax adjustment in contingencies associated with Macondo crew claims partly offset by $33 million associated with favorable discrete tax items in certain jurisdictions.
Excluding these items our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $337 million or $0.93 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings of $0.91 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
For the first quarter of 2013 our consolidated revenues decreased by $129 million to $2.2 billion compared with $2.33 billion in the prior quarter.
The decrease was due to lower revenue efficiency offset partly by fewer out-of-service days.
Total fleet revenue efficiency was an unsatisfactory 88% in the first quarter compared with 94.7% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Also deep-water revenue efficiency declined to 83.8% from 95.5% in the prior quarter.
As we mentioned in our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call the lower revenue efficiency in the first quarter reflects the impact of replacement of OEM defective bolts in subsea well controlled equipment.
We estimate that the revenue impact of the bolts in the first quarter was approximately $63 million.
Also contributing to the decrease and was unrelated well control and other equipment down time on certain ultra-deep water rigs.
Overall fleet utilization for the first quarter was 80% compared with 79% achieved in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Other revenues remained at the same level as the previous quarter this reflects the continuation of low activity levels in our international drilling management services business.
As a remainder this operating segment will continue to create some volatility in other revenues.
Even though relatively low margin nature of this business the volatility has limited impact on our earnings that has the effect of reducing our overall margins when measured and compared in percentage terms.
Our first quarter operating and maintenance expenses were $1.38 billion reflecting a decrease of 63 million compared with $1.44 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The decrease was primarily due to the sequential decline in maintenance and shipyard cost of about a $130 million.
This decrease was partly offset by the non-cash $74 million charge associated with the adjustment of contingencies related to crew claims on the Macondo well incident.
Interest expense net of amount capitalized and interest income was $140 million compared with 167 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 reflecting the repurchase of the Series C convertible senior notes late in the fourth quarter of last year.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $275 million compared with 278 million in the prior quarter.
General and admin expenses were $67 million for the first quarter compared with 65 million in the previous quarter.
The effective tax rate from continuing operations after adjusting for unusual items was 5.7% for the quarter and the annual effective tax rate was 19.2%.
Net cash flow generated from operations decreased to $106 million in the first quarter compared with $923 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This decrease was primarily due to the payment of the first installment of $400 million plus interest on the Macondo settlement agreed with the U.S.
Department of Justice in January 2013 and other changes in working capital.
Capital expenditures from continuing operations were $488 million in the quarter down from 657 million in the prior quarter.
Fourth quarter CapEx was impacted by initial shipyard payments associated with the new build drill ships.
The divesture of three standard jackups generated $63 million cash proceeds during the first quarter.
Finally during the quarter we repaid a total of $1.19 billion of debt including scheduled maturities and accelerated debt payments.
This resulted in net cash on hand of 3.6 billion to 7 billion at the end of the quarter.
Our full year 2013 P&amp;L guidance is unchanged the first quarter revenue efficiency as Steven said well below our expectations and the need to replace defective bolts and subsea well controlled equipment and other down time issues on certain ultra-deep water rigs.
Our guidance on revenue efficiency is unchanged at 93%.
Our operating and maintenance expense guidance is also unchanged at between $5.7 billion and $5.9 billion.
We expect second quarter operating and maintenance cost to be higher than the first quarter adjusted for the pre-tax $74 million Macondo charge previously discussed due to many factors including seasonality in maintenance shipyard schedules and increased activity related to our new build rigs.
As we communicated in our recent press release we expect annualized savings associated with the shore based organizational initiative of approximately $300 million.
We do not anticipate realization of a material benefit from the initiative in 2013 as any reduction in cost in 2013 is expected to be offset by restructuring expenses.
We expect that about 70% of the annualized savings will be realized already during 2014 with the full effect of this program achieved in 2015.
We continued to review our entire cost structure with the objective of achieving additional improvement in our operating margins.
Our 2013 capital expenditures guidance is reduced to approximately $2.4 billion from earlier guidance of $3 billion due to changes in the timing of progress payments on our new build construction project.
The $2.4 billion comprises new build CapEx of approximately $1.3 billion sustaining CapEx of about $450 million major upgrades and refurbishments of approximately $400 million and CapEx associated with Subsea spare parts for our ongoing efforts to improve operational performance of about $250 million.
The schedule of expected annual payments for our entire new build program is included on our website.
Finally a few points about the balance sheet our short-term liquidity target remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion.
The liquidity target includes consolidated cash the un-drawn $2 billion revolver and the secured credit facility of $900 million issued in October 2012.
Our liquidity target excludes the $690 million cash collateral included in other current assets and other assets that is on deposit to pay the Aker export finance loans.
We strongly believe that this is a prudent and responsible target level of liquidity until the uncertainties the company currently faces are reduced.
We are confident that the proposed $2.24 per share dividend that the board is recommending to our shareholders is the right level in the context of our liquidity target and the remaining uncertainties the company faces.
The dividend also reflects the need for financial flexibility provided by a strong investment grade balance sheet enabling us to continue to execute a strategy of fleet renewal through disciplined well-timed and high return investments in our fleet.
The $2.24 per share dividend produces a yield payout that is very competitive with our peers and represents an initial yield of about 4.1% based on Wednesday’s closing share price.
Steven has already discussed steps we are taking to improve our operating margins.
They include the continuous focus on improvement and stabilization of our revenue efficiency a systematic and urgent focus on our cost structure an additional improvement in our project execution and in out-of-service time.
Given these measures and our roadmap we are confident that our recommended $2.24 per share dividend is sustainable and provides a basis for future increases.
The board is committed to continue to evaluate the business and consider the distribution of increased level of cash to shareholders going forward.
As a further reminder we remain committed to a strong balance sheet and an investment grade credit rating and as such our debt target is unchanged.
We intend to reduce gross long-term debt to between $7 billion and $9 billion reflecting a solid investment grade financial profile.
The gross long-term debt target excludes the export finance loans of some $690 million.
Our goal of retiring approximately $1 billion in excess of existing repayment obligations by the end of 2014 remains on track.
During the first quarter we paid approximately $270 million towards the $1 billion goal by calling our senior unsecured callable bonds due February 2016.
The accelerated debt payments are not expected to incur any material pre-payment penalties or any other costs.
Scheduled maturities for the remainder of 2013 and 2014 are expected to be modest at about $170 million and $270 million respectively.
These figures exclude the payment obligations associated with the partial DOJ settlement on Macondo.
Even with the debt retirements capital expenditures and the proposed $2.24 per share dividend distribution we expect to maintain our liquidity within the target range throughout 2013.
With that I will hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Esa and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments while tendering in the first quarter was relatively slow compared to the second half of 2012 April has reversed its trend with a number of announced fixtures equaling that at the entire first quarter of 2013.
In the ultra-deep water market seven fixtures have been announced in April leaving a toll of 25 ultra-deep water (inaudible) floaters uncommitted through 2015.
The (inaudible) operators are very active having seven rigs available in April and they continue to pursue more capacity in the near term.
Year-to-date we have added 2 billion of contract backlog and we expect to report more positive news shortly.
While the tendering pace has improved in April contract awards continue to take an extended period of time to execute mainly because of regulatory requirement.
Additionally we are seeing certain customers delaying decisions on development programs due to overall project cost coupled with near term uncertainty in Brazil causing unexpected capacity in the near term.
While the near term maybe a little challenge we are confident in the long term fundamentals and our customer’s willingness to continue to increase their activity level.
Now to specific market day rates for ultra-deep-water rigs are leveling off around 550 000 to 600 000 per day depending upon area of operation in terms contract.
The lower specification ultra-deep-water units offering are around $500 000 to $550 000.
Ultra-deep-water demand continues to be driven by exploration programs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico West Africa East Africa and in other emerging markets.
We are very pleased to contract the Cajun express the first ultra-deep-water unit to depart Brazil the one year at $600 000 per day offshore Morocco.
In our last earnings call we stated we were in advance discussion with the major integrated international oil companies for the construction of one dual activity ultra-deep-water drill ship and today we continue to make progress with these direct negotiations.
Our confidence in the long term future of ultra-deep-water market continues to be confirmed by the customer interest in the remaining fleet available in 2013.
Although the pace of tendering of the deep-water market has been relatively quiet year-to-date we recently signed a contract for the jack based in Australia for 90 days at 525 000 per day.
We expect to see an increase in opportunities in the second half of 2013; we are currently in discussions with several customers for the remaining available fleet.
Mid-water and harsh environment activity especially in the UK and Norwegian North Sea remains very high with lead times now pushing out to two years.
In the UK long term exploration and development programs are providing opportunity to extend the contract on existing fleet and bring additional harsh environment capacity into the market.
We have recently extended the John Shaw for one year at $415 000 per day and we are in discussions to return the article into act of duty in the UK.
Outside of the UK and Norwegian markets the market for mid-water rigs has been less certain however we are seeing a slight uptick in activity in the (inaudible) and Asia.
We’re actively pursuing opportunities for our rigs becoming available in 2013.
Utilization in day rates for premium jackups remains strong due to improving demand in almost all jackup provinces.
This is reflected in the extension of the GSF Magellan in Nigeria for one year at a $168 000 per day and the opportunities and discussions we are currently having with our customers for available fleet in 2013.
The increased utilization has resulted in rate of high specification jackups increasing to over a $170 000 per day in West Africa and well over $200 000 in UK.
In summary the ultra-deep-water market is strong but we could experience a near term softness due to delays in award and excess capacity.
The deep-water market utilization remains over 90% but currently experiencing slow activity.
Mid-water in UK and Norway and the jackup market remains robust.
Longer term we believe that continued success in exploration increased development programs in emerging plays support our view of ample opportunity for the existing fleet and for future growth.
This concludes my overview of the market.
So I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thank you Terry.
With that Anthony we are ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
Absolutely.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Robin Shoemaker at Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Robin.
Steven one of the things you mentioned in your comments was that you saw some interest form buyers in low spec commodity floaters and so I wonder if you could just share with us what your view is on the potential for selling some of the – I guess this would be in the midwater fleet I am assuming.
And what that could – how that could possibly impact your cost reduction programs?  Well I think as it relates to the potential Robin I think we see pretty good opportunities out there.
As Terry described the North Sea and Norwegian markets are really strong right now.
Outside those two particular areas we haven’t seen quite the pace of day rate progression but there still is a fairly active market out there.
And so the buyer community is roughly similar to the same folks who are interested in low spec commodity class jackets.
They see an opportunity to deploy capital in what is an interesting business.
I think the impact on our cost structure would play out the same way the continued transformation of the broad fleet has played out as we sell rigs and reduce our market presence where our footprint in particular areas it gives us an opportunity to reevaluate the shore-based infrastructure in those areas.
And then it does help us continue to drive the focus on direct spending on the rigs as well.
Okay.
My other question was for Esa on the last call you spoke at some length about the looking that Transocean is looking at different financing solutions including an MLP and that you kind of had an ongoing internal analysis as to the applicability of that to Transocean.
So wondered if you could update us if you have had any further thoughts about the MLP structure?  Thanks Robin.
Very good question.
I knew somebody was going to ask that question by making good progress I have got a very high quality team working on the topic bringing different expertise to its financial legal tax but also operations marketing.
We are not ready to conclude yet but we have spent a fair amount of time since the last call reviewing the fleet and looking at the best candidates for a potential MLP analyzed multiple structural alternatives because this is if implemented going to be very complicated and we need to be absolutely certain that from a tax perspective this kind of thing would work.
We have analyzed the economics.
We have analyzed the capital structure implications reviewed and assessed the legal boundaries and issues and identified remaining key issues and also tried to model how an MLP would look like throughout that complete drilling cycle.
So as you can hear we are not ready to conclude that we are making very good progress and in not too distant future we should be able to further engaging it with our board and inside our management to conclude and then communicate as to whether or not we see this as an appropriate tool for Transocean.
Okay alright thank you.
And we will go next to Angeline Sedita UBS.
Alright good morning.
Good morning Angie.
Terry you mentioned that the rate of absorption or the contracting of the ultra-deep-water new builds obviously has been slower than anticipated and you cited the regulatory issues but this is also indicated at least in the near-term that the market is becoming somewhat balanced or saturated at least over the near-term?  Angie what we have seen is in some of – in certainly West Africa it’s taken so many months to grow even contract awards that the industry knows is out there and then I think we are just little surprised that the recent announcement and goal (ph) of that the tender for blots already to be delayed several months.
So the effect of that has in releasing several units back to the market in that time frame causes little bit of near term capacity.
So you know it doesn’t mean that there is not enough demand out there to observe the available fleet it just means that the timing issue and the customers are certainly out there and we see more demand coming on in the near term too.
There has been a couple of fixtures that have come out and most recently but it just creates the perception that there is more capacity there in the near term and then if you look into ’14 with the share number of rigs that are coming on I think the customers have a little more time to make decision.
So I think it's more of a perception and we just going to have to stay out how it plays out.
Okay and then have you seen have any of these (inaudible) that are building these rigs or any of them more European or smaller companies where you think that there could be a little bit of panic as the rigs are delivered that they start to take a rate that’s lower than what has been taken so far in the market?  If you look out over the next 12 to 16 months what you’re going to see is with the fragmentation of the market as you decide you’re going to see 15 contract drillers competing for the same opportunities and so while I think that there has been a tremendous amount of discipline in the market thus far you put on some near term capacity and we are just going to see how this plays out certainly but I think it's going to be very interesting.
And as a related follow-up I guess for Steven or Esa on the operating efficiency initiative clearly in your margins and based on your comments here during this conference call is that beyond the 300 million that you still see additional cost cutting opportunities going into 2015 is that fair?  It's very fair.
We have identified several other areas that we are focusing on now in order to further improve well beyond the $300 million target and that includes offshore manning the way we do projects maintenance philosophy even issues such as remuneration policies and so on and so but there is obviously a lot left to optimize and that’s what we are focusing on next whilst obviously also focusing on implementing the on-shore initiative and delivering the results that we are committed to deliver.
So the answer is clearly there is more opportunity and more space for optimization and improvement.
And we will go next to Greg Lewis at Credit Suisse.
Not to dwell on the cost initiative because clearly it's been sort of rig over the calls (ph) is there a way to estimate how much of the 300 million initially is associated directly with the sale of Shelf Drilling.
It's a forced evaluation.
I think we could do that reality is that 300 million is well over and above the Shelf Drilling contribution to overheads as a matter of fact I think it is if not in excess of three times is probably something like that in comparison with the overhead coverage that we got from that part of the portfolio.
So clearly this is much larger than that so I don’t have an exact number to use but the $300 million per annum represents something like three times to the contribution to overhead as part of the portfolio had.
And then just shifting over to the market.
I guess congratulations on the extension of the jack based that sounds like a pretty attractive rate in Australia.
As we think about two other rigs that are in sort of that area of the world I mean I guess you have the one high spec floater the Yumin (ph) in India and it looks like it's rolling off this summer and then we have in just if you can provide just an update on how that’s working I guess that rigs with ONGC and then maybe what’s the outlook for the explorer at this point I believe that rig has been idled for a little while now?  Hi Greg.
Starting with the Hilm we are still on contract with ONGC.
ONGC actually has some upcoming tenders that we actually could participate in where we could keep the rig right there.
Also we are participating in other tendering right now in Asia.
So we do see there is opportunities for the Hilm to certainly continue her campaign through 2013.
At the GSF Explorer we have been actively marketing the rig.
We have had a few – excuse me we had a few opportunities where we just didn’t get to the finish line where there was partly some interest in Africa but today we are still in discussions in India and we are very hopeful that we will be able to come to some conclusion there.
Okay great.
And then just if you can just provide on the Hilm mill it almost sounds like just given the opportunities in India and potentially elsewhere that we probably see that rig get re-upped at a higher rate is that a fair assumption?  Well I mean I think that you got to look at the capabilities of the rig in the market that it’s in.
This is actually a third generation rig.
So I wouldn’t say that it’s a high-spec rig.
She is a third generation standard floater that we had actually done some upgrades too but she is going to be competing in a market probably with the midwater floater.
So I wouldn’t have the expectation that it would be a high rollover rate.
Okay perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Greg.
We will go next to Scott Gruber at Bernstein.
Yes hello.
Hi Scott.
You’ve reiterated the goal of reducing debt down to below $9 billion.
Now let’s assume that Macondo is resolved and you face no additional liability above and beyond what you have already booked and assuming you had $800 million dividend is approved can you discuss how would weight debt reduction versus further enhancement of the dividend? I guess my question is would reduction be still be prioritized?  Very good questions Scott Esa Ikaheimonen here.
I wouldn’t say prioritized because we try and follow that balanced philosophy regarding capital allocation.
So all elements of our capital allocations are equally important.
Clearly the fact that we are proposing a dividend or reinstating a dividend increases the priority on that side of things particularly because the intention is to sustain and grow.
So the balanced capital allocation philosophy continues and based on our financial forecast we will be able to do all three things.
Obviously not exceedingly aggressively but managed on a way over a period of time.
We have got $11.5 billion of debt at this moment in time which is around three times our EBITDA which is clearly not a financial profile for investment grade.
And we know that and the rating agencies know that and therefore we do have somewhat of a necessity to actually manage that debt level down.
And the $9 billion have been established as the level because that kind of represents the top end of the investment grade leverage level.
As our earnings improve that obviously gives us more flexibility in terms of maybe consider adding that at an appropriate time and that’s why it’s important to maintain the strong balance sheet because it does give us that financial flexibility and we can take advantage of opportunities as and when they come along.
Got it.
And then if we come back to the cost streamlining initiatives Esa you outlined potential areas of additional savings beyond this first phase can those additional areas be as large or potentially larger than this first $300 million we look at them collectively?  I think I must be diplomatic here now Scott.
And actually make sure that we don’t start sharing our guesses as to how much the potential it could be before we have done a proper analysis and we are ready to commit to deliver on those numbers we are not there quite yet we have got good estimates as to where we might be able to head and they are all very material but in terms of giving your lot more accurate figures or even indications we are not ready to do that yet but it shouldn’t say too long if OBR (ph) and that’s when we feel that we have evaluated the situation we have basically done sufficed demand of kind of bottoms up work rather than just jump to a conclusion and that bottoms up work is actually really important so that what we do is done in a structured way that gives us the confidence that the improvements are sustainable rather than it's something that you know come and go and what is important is that we can do what we did with the shore base piece which was that we analyze we felt comfortable and we are committed to deliver and that’s exactly what we’re planning to do with the other parts as well.
(Operator Instructions).
We will go next to Ian MacPherson with Simmons.
I had just a couple of curiosities about the first quarter results on the revenue efficiency it seems like something deviated from the outlook that you imparted in early March in the fourth quarter call when the 90% quarter-to-date revenue efficiency was expected to improve slightly in March.
So can you walk us through what change there and how that impacts your thoughts on you have reaffirmed revenue efficiency and cost guidance for this year both of those seem to be tracking below trend for Q1 if you could comment on that first.
Thanks.
Ian as it relates to the downtime we experienced in the first quarter we had some significant downtime on a couple of pretty key systems on the rigs well controlled equipment being one of them and dynamic positioning being the other it affected a number of rigs but as I said during my prepared comments I remain extremely confident in the ability of the management team the operations folks around the company to continue to execute against the program we have put in place.
The other sort of accounting curiosity I had was around your 8 million negative expense for non-controlling interest and if I understand correctly that’s mainly dominated by the discovery of Discoverer Luanda and maybe secondarily the Transocean on which earned those consolidated DIEs where there operational issues of those rigs that explain that number in Q1?  I think we had an operational issue on the Honor I can’t recall off the top of my head whether we had anything happen on the Luanda or not.
I can follow-up offline on that and then just secondary among the 7 or 8 so ultra-deep water rigs that you in your marketing window for now with roll overs in the next year or year plus I feel those rigs that are rolling off with BP the deep-water discovery of the enterprise and the DD2 and it's been a couple of years we have assigned a renewal with BP.
So can you just comment on the view there with those rigs that are better rolling off with that customer?  Yes I can comment we are actively marketing all of the rigs that are rolling over in this window as you described so BP has taken on some new builds portfolio that we believe is going to come in and move forward where these rigs are going to be moved to other markets.
We’re actually in discussion serious discussions on all of the units but that doesn’t mean that we won't be extending some of our other plays that we have with BP.
So I just wanted to make that distinction that I believe we are about to have some frequent discussions on at least one rig.
So again yes we are looking to move those to follow-on work with some other customers so that’s where we are today.
(Operator Instructions).
We will go next to Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you very much.
Terry could you comment on the dual BOP stacks we’re hitting that the customers are now focusing a lot more on dual BOP stacks and if you don’t have that you get a discount to what is now like a $600 000 day rate in the Gulf of Mexico?  Hi Waqar.
Yes I think that the dual BOP stacks in the Gulf of Mexico certainly they are making quite a bit of difference with the customers and the drilling contractors.
There is certainly some efficiency due to the regulatory requirements of what we have to do now when we pull of BOP or having one ready to go is certainly beneficial.
I wouldn’t say that universally the rates that are being executed $600 000 a day discounted I mean look at the Cajun Express doesn’t have two BOPs and we are able to get $600 000 a day.
Also the Asgard that we have recently contracted that is a tender that was requesting only one BOP so we got $600 000 a day for one BOP.
So I am not sure that we can universally say that but again because of the requirements in Gulf of Mexico and the environment that we are in it is a beneficial addition to our fleet.
And just as a follow-up I hear that there could be new BOP regulations this summer and do you know what those could be?  I had the opportunity to sit down yesterday here in Houston with the recently appointed Secretary of the Interior and the Director of BSEE and BOEM.
And I took advantage of that opportunity to chat with them about BOP regulations and the importance of clarity and timeliness in issuing those regulations so that we can understand exactly what we need to do respond.
What I got back from Director Watson was complementary feedback on the industry’s responsiveness and the willingness to continue to engage regarding the discussion going forward.
So I have reached out to Director Watson to continue that dialogue and I am not sure exactly when we will see him or what form they will take but I can promise we’ll be a part of the dialogue.
And hopefully as a result of being part of the dialogue we’ll be in a position to respond as well as we have done up until now.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Waqar.
And we will go next to (indiscernible).
Thank you.
Terry you mentioned Cajun Express leaving Brazil at the first ultra-deep-water do you expect more of your ultra-deep-water units coming off contracts to leave Brazil?  Well I think that they are in an interesting place and time with their current place that they have and what they are doing.
And I don’t think that it’s been the secret that they are going to focus on their Campos basin and keep the rigs that are certainly instrumental for that work.
At the ultra-deep-water fleet they said that they are going to basically follow status quo and then wait for their new builds to come in.
So I think we will certainly see our DWD departing that she was actually contracted right now with BP even though she farmed out with Petrobras but anyway she will be leaving and again we are marketing her actively in other markets.
Okay great.
Switching over to the UK where your very profit into the markets you have 9 units in the UK now floaters and possibly one coming in a total of 10 units and there are 20 units in that market is that the maximum you can have in terms of government regulation when you have to sell two rigs after the global transaction?  I think Andreas the UK regulator looked at the combination of the two companies at the time of the merger and made a ruling on the acquisition of the incremental market share.
I think around the world I think the regulators understand that these are mobile assets and it is the – it’s up to the customers to drive demand in one markets relative to another.
And consequently the contractors respond accordingly.
I have never seen a situation where simply as the result of the customer asking us to bring a rig into a particular market that we have had a negative reaction on the part of the regulator.
Okay great.
Thanks.
I could go on that was my two questions.
Thanks.
And we will go next to Anders Bergland at Platou Markets.
I have some question on the cost cutting side I guess you touch upon that.
Just to switch over to the mid-water market do you expect any kind of a fleet renew in this market and are there any charters of getting contract against new build from this market going forward?  I’m sorry I didn’t hear the last part of it were you talking about getting contracts for new builds?  Yes contracts for new builds and the mid-water market do you get fleet competition of (inaudible) distribution extending 30 years pretty soon and I guess we will need some kind of fleet renewal in the segment as well as some (inaudible).
Well I think that in the current environment where we have such an influx of the ultra-deep-water units and then if we had any capacity we are going to see certain of the rigs that we are doing compete down into other market but I think at some point that people are going to start looking at what does it take and is it economical and can you cross the economic hurdles that you need to convince yourself that you need to start replacing the mid-water fleet outside the UK and Norway and I wouldn’t be surprised if we do see some speculative building.
I mean we already have seen a little bit of it in the harsh environment space.
But I think at some point we will have to take a look at that but until then we are going to continue to work these rigs and work in our fleet and certainly the North Sea has been very profitable and the fact that you know we are able to maintain a 50% market share and that environment is certainly a very good for Transocean.
We will continue to look at the opportunities to upgrade the fleet as necessary with our customers but we will just have to again we will have to wait to see how this turns out.
And we will take our next question from Bernd Pomrehn at Main First.
Just a question on this nasty bolt issue please obviously we underestimate that at least the short term impact of this issue how successful have you been to fix this problem which share of your fleet still has this issue and consequently which impact should we expect from the inspection and replacement of potentially defective bolt in the second quarter.
Thank you.
I think with respect to the need to replace the defective bolts we are largely through the program.
The remaining couple of rigs that are exposed to the possibility of having to replace bolts are going to undertake the inspection of bolts and consequently the potential replacement of those bolts as part of normal between loss maintenance (ph).
Thank you all very much for your participation in today’s conference call.
We’re certainly available if you have any additional questions and we look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter call.
Thanks again and have a good day.
And this does conclude today’s presentation.
We thank everyone for their participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Transocean second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator.
Good day and welcome to Transocean’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules are posted on the company’s website at deepwater.com.
We have also posted supplemental materials that you may find helpful as you update your financial models.
These materials can be found on the company’s website by selecting Quarterly Toolkit under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note that we will no longer be posting three charts as part of our quarterly toolkit.
These charts are entitled “Average Contracted Day Rate by Rate Type ” “Out of Service Rig Months ” and “O&amp;M Cost Trends.” The information presented on these charts is still provided as part of our quarterly full fleet status report or in the case of O&amp;M cost trends as part of the daily operating and maintenance cost schedule that is included in the toolkit.
Joining me on this morning’s call are Steven Newman chief executive officer; Esa Ikaheimonen executive vice president and chief financial officer; and Terry Bonno senior vice president of marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I would like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Among others these include future financial performance operating results estimated contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident anticipated results of our cost savings initiatives and the prospects for the contract drilling business generally.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it’s inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices; rig demand; the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies; and operational and other risks which are described in the company’s most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect our actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
You will find the required supplemental financial disclosures for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more folks an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven?  Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
I appreciate your participation on the call today.
As this is our first quarterly call since the May annual general meeting I want to thank all of you who participated in that process.
As always the opportunity to spend time with our shareholders is extremely valuable for us and I look forward to a continuing dialogue on the key topics we discussed during those meetings.
I would also like to reiterate that I am in complete agreement with our shareholders that Transocean’s market valuation is too low.
I assure you that we are urgently working to address issues that are within our control that are weighing on our valuation including operating performance profitably and fleet composition and we are committed to keeping you updated as we make progress on our various plans.
As you saw in the press release we reported adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $392 million or $1.08 per diluted share.
Including $85 million in net unfavorable items we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $307 million or $0.84 per diluted share.
While we made very good progress in our operating performance during the second quarter compared to the first quarter and I appreciate and commend the diligent efforts of the team that delivered this improvement we are not where we need to be either in absolute terms or in consistency.
Our second quarter fleet-wide revenue efficiency of 93.1% was a significant improvement over the 88% delivered during the prior quarter.
In fact performance improved steadily during the second quarter with June’s fleet-wide revenue efficiency at 95.6% and ultradeepwater revenue efficiency at 95%.
June’s results were in line with what we achieved during the second half of 2012 and preliminary July revenue efficiency results are consistent with June’s level of performance slightly offsetting this improved revenue performance during the quarter or higher O&amp;M costs generally due to increases in planned maintenance and shipyard projects.
As I have said before I am confident that the initiatives we have undertaken will continue to yield improved operating results and financial performance.
However our challenge continues to be demonstrating the sustainability and consistency of the revenue efficiency improvements we have accomplished.
Esa will take you through the numbers shortly.
As I said before we are diligently taking action on the issues most clearly within our control including improving revenue efficiency reducing shore-based costs project execution and more efficient offshore spending.
These are the most important components for margin improvements and the key catalysts for improving our market valuation.
I am confident we can achieve our objectives through our continued efforts.
We are committed to improving our shore-based cost structure by reducing annualized costs by $300 million as compared with the cost structure in place before the Shelf Drilling transaction.
As part of this initiative we are rationalizing our global workforce and consolidating facilities to reflect the changes resulting from the Shelf Drilling transaction and the continuing divestiture of noncore assets consistent with our asset strategy.
The process of reducing our global shore-based headcount is ongoing.
As you are aware this is a complicated and sensitive process and we are committed to ensuring that these workforce reductions take place in a responsible and respectful manner.
This will take some time and we have targeted completion by the end of 2014.
In this regard we have incurred separation costs of approximately $20 million as of June 30.
We will continue to keep you informed regarding our progress in this effort.
Rig operating costs are another key component of our profitability.
These are driven mainly by headcount and maintenance expenditures including major overhauls and periodic inspections.
We are taking a thorough look at our offshore rig based headcount focusing on the reduction of labor pools the careful rationalization of training and development spending and the optimization of offshore personnel deployment.
Our objective is to enhance the overall operating efficiency of our rigs and the services we provide to our customers by even better leveraging the extremely talented operations teams and rig crews we have around the world.
As with our shore-based initiative we are taking a very diligent and conscientious approach to the offshore aspects of our cost structure to ensure that we do not in any way compromise safety operational integrity or the company’s long term competitiveness.
We will provide more specific information in the near future as our analysis progresses and implementation plans are further refined.
Another key driver of our valuation is our rig portfolio and we made further progress in executing on our asset strategy during the second quarter.
Year to date we have sold three standard jack-ups and three of the four remaining standard jack-ups are already under contract to buyers.
In connection with our efforts to dispose of certain low-spec commodity floaters since the last earnings call we sold one stacked fourth generation deepwater floater and entered into agreements to sell an additional deepwater and two midwater floaters which were also stacked.
Also during the quarter we sold the [unintelligible] shares in Shelf Drilling which we received as consideration in the transaction.
The sale of the shares further reduces our exposure to this noncore asset class.
The newbuild jack-up Transocean Andaman commenced operations on its three-year contract with Chevron in Thailand during the quarter.
With about 100% revenue efficiency both the Andaman and the Siam Driller are providing excellent service to Chevron reflecting the close partnership we enjoy with them and the quality of Transocean’s projects and operations personnel.
The successful performance of these rigs underpins Transocean’s ability to achieve attractive returns on these investments.
I expect the same level of performance from the [Outside] when she commences her five-year contract with Chevron in Thailand later this year.
The ultradeepwater new boat program remains on track with the Asgard and the Invictus scheduled to go to work in the first and third quarters of 2014 respectively.
The four newbuilds contracted to Shell though very early in the construction process also remain on track.
In June we paid the first installment of our $2.24 per share dividend which represents one of the industry’s largest yields and highest implied payout ratios.
As we discussed during the proxy campaign the $2.24 per share dividend approved by our shareholders is a solid starting point.
We understand the importance of a sustainable and growing distribution of capital to our shareholders and I reiterate that it is our intent to increase the level of cash we distribute in the future in the context of our balanced capital allocation strategy.
Finally I want to touch briefly on the Macondo litigation.
During the second quarter phase one of the trial concluded and all parties have submitted their post-trial briefs and composed findings.
I was encouraged that no new facts regarding Transocean emerged during this important phase of litigation.
I think this reflects the quality of the investigation work our team did and the level of cooperation demonstrated with the authorities.
I remain confident in our position and the merits of our case though I would remind you that litigation can be unpredictable.
Phase two of the trial focusing on source control and quantification is currently scheduled to start at the end of September.
With that I will hand it over to Esa to take you through the numbers.
Esa? Thank you Steven.
I add my thanks to all of you for joining us today.
I will now add some more detail and color to Steven’s comments.
We reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $307 million or $0.84 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2013.
Our results for the quarter included $85 million or $0.24 per diluted share in after-tax net unfavorable items as follows: the $7 million associated with impairments of three rigs classified as held for sale $20 million of losses on the termination of interest rate swaps and the sale of preferenced shares associated with the Shelf Drilling transaction $11 million of unfavorable discrete tax items $10 million in losses associated with discontinued operations and $7 million of costs associated with severance plans specifically established for our shore-based cost reduction program.
Excluding these items our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $392 million or $1.08 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $0.93 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013.
Additionally related to severances certain existing benefit plans were accelerated into the second quarter resulting in an out of period expense of about $9 million after tax or $0.03 per diluted share.
With consideration of this item adjusted earnings from continuing operations would be about $1.11 per diluted share.
For the second quarter of 2013 our consolidated revenues increased by $200 million to $3.4 billion compared with $2.2 billion in the prior quarter.
The increase was mainly due to improved revenue efficiency with a further positive contribution from our two newbuild [high specification] jack-ups placed into service during the first half of 2013.
Total fleet revenue efficiency was 93.1% in the second quarter compared with 88% in the first quarter of 2013.
Ultradeepwater revenue efficiency improved to 91.1% for the second quarter from 83.8% in the prior quarter.
And June’s revenue efficiency results were in line with what we achieved during the second half of 2012.
As Steven mentioned we exited the second quarter with fleet revenue efficiency at about 95% and a similar level of performance continued in July.
Fleet utilization was 80% for the second quarter unchanged from the previous one.
Other revenues increased by $24 million as a result of increased activity levels in our international drilling management services business.
As a reminder revenues can be volatile in this relatively low-margin business.
The volatility has a limited impact on our earnings and the low margin contribution from this segment has the effect of reducing our consolidated margins when measured in percentage terms.
Excluding Macondo crew claims charges of $74 million incurred in the first quarter of 2013 our second quarter operating and maintenance expenses increased by $92 million to $1.39 billion.
The increase was primarily due to planned maintenance and shipyard projects including expenses related to [unintelligible] 712 reactivation the GSF Explorer contract preparation and the Transocean searcher shipyard.
Also drilling management services costs increased by $20 million in line with the higher activity levels previously discussed.
The higher O&amp;M costs in the second quarter are fully in line with the O&amp;M guidance provided on our last earnings call.
General and administrative expenses were $77 million for the second quarter compared with $67 million in the previous quarter.
This increase was attributable to restructuring expenses and professional fees associated with preparations for the 2013 annual general meeting.
With the implementation of the shore-based organizational efficiency initiative second quarter 2013 results included about $20 million in costs before tax or $16 million after tax associated with severance and the accelerated recognition of existing compensation plans.
Approximately $15 million of this cost was included in operating and maintenance expense and $5 million was included in G&amp;A.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $286 million compared with $275 million in the prior quarter.
This increase was due to the startup operations of the two newbuild jack-ups and other smaller capital additions.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized and interest income was $135 million compared with $140 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The sequential decrease in net interest expense reflects the continued focus on reducing our long term debt.
We are well on track to deliver on our debt reduction targets during the next couple of years.
The second quarter annual effective tax rate from continuing operations was 23.5% compared with 19.2% in the prior quarter.
The increase was primarily due to changes in the blend of income that is taxed based on gross revenues versus pre-tax income rig movements between jurisdictions and foreign currency impacts.
The second quarter 2013 also included an additional tax expense of $10 million or about $0.03 per diluted share reflecting the increase in the annual effective tax rate to 21.6% for the six months ended June 30 2013 from 19.3% for the first three months of the year.
Net cash flow generated from operations increased to $460 million in the second quarter compared with $106 million in the first quarter of 2013.
This increase was primarily due to the timing of payments related to the Macondo settlement agreed with the U.S.
Department of Justice in January 2013 which were higher in the first quarter than the second quarter and due to working capital settlements received from Shelf Drilling during the second quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures were $352 million in the quarter down from $488 million in the prior quarter primarily due to the timing of process payments associated with our seven-rig newbuild program.
During the quarter we repaid a total of $406 million of debt including scheduled maturities and accelerated debt payments.
We also distributed the first installment of dividend payments to our shareholders totaling $204 million.
Finally during the quarter we sold the preferenced shares associated with the Shelf Drilling transaction further reducing our exposure to this noncore standard jack-up asset class.
This net use of cash resulted in $3.36 billion in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the second quarter representing a reduction of $332 million from the end of the first quarter.
Turning now to our guidance our full year 2013 guidance is largely unchanged.
Although our second quarter revenue efficiency improved as compared to the prior quarter it was still below our expectations with a year to date revenue efficiency of about 91% mostly due to a disappointing first quarter.
However the gradual improvement during the second quarter which continued into July demonstrated our ability to achieve revenue efficiency performance similar to the second half of 2012 which averaged at about 95%.
We’re confident in our ability to execute and as such continue to believe that our previous guidance for revenue efficiency of 93% for the full year remains achievable.
This assumes that we perform in the second half of the year at the same levels as we did in June and July.
Our annual operating and maintenance expense guidance range is slightly narrowed to between $5.8 billion and $5.9 billion primarily due to better visibility and forecast accuracy.
We expect higher operating and maintenance expenses in the second half of 2013 as compared to the first half primarily due to the increase in shipyard activities and expense projects which are largely reflected in our last fleet status report.
As a reminder our O&amp;M guidance excludes unusual items including the $74 million Macondo crew claim charges and certain costs associated with our shore-based efficiency initiative.
As we previously communicated we expect annualized savings associated with the shore-based organizational efficiency initiative of approximately $300 million as compared with our cost structure prior to the Shelf Drilling transaction.
The expected decrease in offshore costs includes workforce reductions consolidation of offices and other benefits resulting from the standardization simplification and centralization of our support processes.
We do not anticipate realization of the material benefit from this initiative in 2013 but we do expect that about 60% to 70% of the annualized savings will be realized during 2014 with the full effect of this program achieved in 2015.
We continue to review our entire cost structure with the objective of achieving additional improvements in our operating margins.
In this regard Steven has already discussed other steps we are taking to improve our operating margins.
We continue to review our entire cost base with an intense focus on offshore activities and continued improvements in our project execution.
These steps are expected to improve our profitability and cash flow considerably in 2014 and increasingly thereafter.
Our annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is still expected to be between 18% and 22%.
Our 2013 capital expenditure guidance is unchanged at approximately $3.4 billion.
As a reminder a schedule of expected annual payments for our newbuild program is included on our website.
The increments above our newbuild obligations reflect expenditures of sustaining capex of about $450 million this year the major upgrades and refurbishment expenditures of approximately $400 million and investments in capital spare equipment for our ongoing efforts to improve operational performance of about $250 million.
After 2013 capex related to these capital spare equipments should decrease.
Finally a few updates on the balance sheet.
In line with our balanced capital allocation strategy we are progressing well with our plan to reduce our gross long term debt reflecting a solid investment grade financial profile which is further supported by expected earnings growth.
Our call of retiring approximately $1 billion in excess of existing repayment obligations by the end of 2014 also remains on track.
During 2013 we have paid approximately $630 million towards the $1 billion goal by calling our senior unsecured uncallable bonds due February 2016 and by repaying the TPDI credit facilities which were used to finance our joint venture with Pacific Drilling and were secured by the KG1 and KG2.
Accelerated debt payments in the future are not expected to result in any material prepayment penalties or any other costs.
Scheduled maturities for the remainder of 2013 and 2014 are expected to be modest about $80 million and $290 million respectively.
These figures exclude the payment obligations associated with the partial DOJ settlement on Macondo.
There’s no change to our short term liquidity target which remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion.
This is a prudent and responsible short term level of liquidity until the uncertainties the company currently faces are reduced.
The liquidity target includes consolidated cash the undrawn $2 billion revolver and the secured credit facility of $900 million issued in October of 2012.
Our liquidity target excludes the $661 million cash collateral that is on deposit to pay the [unintelligible].
Considering the debt retirements capital expenditures and the dividend distribution we expect to maintain our liquidity well within the target range throughout 2013.
In the context of our balanced capital allocation strategy our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders remains the same.
During the second quarter we distributed the first of four installments of the $800 million dividend approved by the shareholders at the May AGM.
Given our margin improvement plans and the strong long term market outlook and in the context of our liquidity targets and remaining uncertainties we believe that the $2.24 per share dividend provides a solid basis for future increases.
Consistent with historical practice our board will continue to evaluate these and other factors in considering whether to propose to shareholders that they approve an increase in the level of cash contributions going forward.
As to 2014 expectations we will provide preliminary guidance on our third quarter conference call.
We’ll be in a position to provide greater details about our roadmap and targets to improve our cost performance and our operating margin since the third quarter call occurs during the latter stages of our 2014 budget process.
With that I’ll hand it over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Esa and hello to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I’d like to make a few general comments.
The second quarter tendering activity was quite a busy one for the independents.
The group contracted the majority of the work across the global floater fleet.
In the second quarter 20 new contracts on the global fleet of ultradeepwater rigs were announced leaving a total of 14 ultradeepwater newbuild floaters and 28 existing ultradeepwater rigs uncommitted through 2014.
Year to date we added $5.2 billion of contract backlog and we expect to report more positive news shortly.
While the pace of tendering for ultradeepwater and deepwater rigs accelerated greatly in the second quarter contract awards continue to take a long time to reach closure mainly due to regulatory requirements and in some cases delays of projects due to economic viability.
Additionally during the second quarter the market experienced a decrease in contract duration and lead times.
While the near term may be a little challenging with the large number of rollovers of existing fleet and the influx of newbuilds into early 2015 we remain confident in the long term fundamentals and our customers’ willingness to continue to increase their activity levels.
Now to specific markets.
Our commentary on day rates for ultradeepwater rigs remains the same as detailed in our last earnings call.
We see rates leveling off between $550 000 per day to $600 000 per day depending upon area of operations rig capability availability and contract duration.
The lower specification ultradeepwater rigs are being offered around $520 000 a day to $570 000 per day.
Ultradeepwater demand is being driven by the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico sub-Saharan Africa and in certain emerging markets.
We expect demand in Brazil to increase over the medium term with the recent success of the licensing round and the interest in the October [unintelligible] for [Libra].
As a reflection of the strength of Transocean’s position in the marketplace the quality of our customer relationships and the competitiveness of our asset base we are very pleased to announce the extension of the Discoverer Clear Leader at $590 000 per day for four years and the Discover Inspiration at $585 000 per day for five years plus performance incentives for both rigs adding contract backlog of almost $2 billion.
Additionally we finalized a one-year contract for the Transocean Barents at $615 000 per day for one year in Norway.
We are also in final negotiations on several other existing ultradeepwater rigs.
Our confidence in the long term future of the ultradeepwater market continues to be confirmed by the customer interest in the remaining fleet available in 2013 and into 2014.
The tendering pace picked up in the deepwater market after a quiet first quarter and we are currently in discussions with several customers for the available fleet.
We were able to extend the Henry Goodrich in eastern Canada for nine months at $476 000 per day.
Midwater and harsh environment activity especially in the Norwegian north sea and U.K.
remains steady compared to the previous quarter.
The first availability in Norway is the Polar Pioneer in early 2014 and our first available existing rig in the U.K.
north sea is in 2015.
Although appearance in the end may provide an opportunity to reactivate one of our stacked north sea capable rigs the Arctic 1 earlier than this this demonstrates the strengths of both markets and may provide an opportunity for additional supply to be absorbed by the market.
Outside of the U.K.
and Norway the market for midwater rigs is relatively quiet.
However we observed a slight increase in contracting in Asia.
The Transocean Amirante is currently idle awaiting an opportunity to return to work.
We are pursuing opportunities for all of the rigs we have available in 2013 and 2014.
Utilization and day rates for premium jack-ups remain strong due to improving demand in almost all jack-up provinces.
We expect all newbuilds to be absorbed by the market and demand will continue to outstrip supply in 2013.
This is reflected in the conversion to drilling mode of the Galaxy 1 in the U.K.
for three years at $215 000 per day at a leading edge day rate.
The increased utilization has resulted in rates for high specification jack-ups increasing to over $180 000 per day in West Africa and well over $210 000 per day in the U.K.
In summary the ultradeepwater market remains healthy.
While the pace of fixtures has moderated we see ample market opportunities to absorb all of the available capacity over the next several years.
While the deepwater market utilization remains over 90% today we’re seeing some potential for incremental idle capacity in the near term.
Midwater activity in the U.K.
and Norway in the premium jack-up market remains robust.
Longer term we expect increased strength of the offshore markets due to the many exploration successes that continue to drive demand providing ample opportunity for the existing fleet and for future growth.
This concludes my overview of the markets so I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thanks Terry.
And with that operator we’re ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator instructions.] And we’ll take our first question from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Steven I’ve heard you mention recently as part of the operational execution strategy maintaining a fleet of spare BOPs.
I wondered if you could just give us a little bit more color in terms of how in practicality that could affect the ongoing operations.
The way I understand it if you have downtime on a BOP you can send a new one out there and while the other one’s getting fixed you can improve the revenue efficiency of the rig.
Is that the right way of thinking about that? And how progressive is that? The focus on having an adequate inventory of spare capital equipment around the world is really designed to improve the utilization of the fleet not necessarily the revenue efficiency.
So if you think about a shipyard project typically what happens is we will bring a rig into the yard take the BOP off of that rig and subject it to a process of inspection and identifying all the necessary repair work and then carrying out that repair work so that we can recertify the BOP and return that BOP to the rig so that the rig can go back to work.
Typically historically that process of BOP recertification has defined the critical path for returning the rig to service.
What we’re trying to do with establishing an inventory of spare capital equipment around the world is taking that process of inspection and repair and recertification off the critical path.
So when a rig comes into the yard we take its BOP off and then we can go through a process of overhauling and recertifying that BOP according to the capability of the manufacturer and the OEM facility but that doesn’t drive the critical path for returning the rig to service because we have an existing inventory of ready to go BOP equipment that we can ship back to that rig in the yard get them ready to go back to work more quickly and more efficiently.
So the inventory of capital spares is really designed to improve our ability to execute shipyard projects in a timely fashion which is a key driver of utilization.
Okay very interesting.
So where are we in that program? Is that being implemented currently? Or is it still in kind of the testing phase if you want to think about it that way? Or is that something we should see in the results maybe a year or two out? We’re well into the implementation of this.
We started placing orders in the latter part of 2010 and on into 2011 and we are as Esa mentioned a significant component of our 2013 capital program reflects the delivery of a large number of those components that we placed orders for a couple of years ago.
As indicated in his comments our capital expended as a result of building up this inventory of capital equipment should go down after 2013 because we’re well into the implementation and taking deliveries of this.
And last one just a follow up sorry to hit this harder but should we see continued improvements in the shipyard related? The capital program is well into the implementation side of things but on the shipyard downtime is that still progressively getting better as we implement the program once the equipment is delivered? Yeah that’s where you’ll see the actual effect of this inventory of capital spares is improved execution of the shipyard projects improved utilization in the fleet reduced out of service time.
We’ll take our next question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Steven you obviously sold four floaters in the quarter in midwater and both deepwater.
Could the list of floaters grow that you have up for sale? And also have you considered selling the midwater floaters as a package similar to what you did with the Shelf jack-up rigs? Our approach to the floater aspect of our asset strategy is similar to the approach we’ve taken on the jack-up side.
We have a list of rigs that we consider to be divestiture candidates.
They’re not part of our core long term strategic fleet.
And so we’re looking for divestiture opportunities and in the meantime Terry and her team do an excellent job of keeping those rigs working.
So we’ll look at single asset transactions we’ll look at packages we’ll consider either private party transactions we’ll consider public market transactions.
Over the course of the execution of the strategy we’ll actually undertake a wide variety of those different components to ensure we execute the strategy.
So could something become more formalized as you did with the jack-ups? I would say that over the last couple of years 2011 and 2012 our focus was on dealing with the jack-up component of the asset strategy.
Now that we’re largely through the jack-up component we kind of shifted our focus and start ramping up our efforts to deal with the floater component of the asset strategy as well.
And then Terry you mentioned on the last call some potential concern about short term overcapacity in the ultradeepwater market.
In context of what you said today has that view changed for the better or worse or stable? And then also in conjunction with that with the ultradeepwater rigs coming into the market in 2013 2014 do you think there’s near term risk for the standard midwater and deepwater rigs as you see with the [Amirante] still being idle? Those are really good questions.
I think the last two quarters we have stated some concern about the sheer numbers.
If you look at 2014 in particular you end up with a number that we haven’t seen in the industry ever.
So there’s 42 rigs.
I think there’s about 12 newbuilds that need to be placed and the rest is a rollover fleet.
As we go back to 2008 I think we’ve averaged about 20 to 25 that have been absorbed by our customers.
So I think the number’s just a little bit concerning.
However with all the successes we feel comfortable that there’s plenty of opportunity for these rigs to go to work.
I think as we look forward it could be a timing issue and I think that’s the concern.
And that’s what why we say near term can our customers absorb just the sheer numbers.
There’s plenty of capacity to drill plenty of opportunities out there and we see an increasing pool of that as these discoveries continue to mound up for 2013.
But I think we have to be cautious about it and be prepared for it and get our rigs to work as quickly as we can.
So do you think that the ultradeepwater newbuilds coming in obviously they’re good rigs people are going to want the rigs.
Maybe there’s a little bit of a timing issue in putting those into contracts but do you think the greater risk could be for the standard midwater and deepwater rigs and other places in the world outside of the North Sea? This has happened in the other type of niche markets that we’ve experienced.
You know the more capable assets are always going to compete down to the less capable assets and we’ve seen it before where the standard midwaters actually take a pause.
And then when the market tightens up again every rig what goes back to its natural water depth capacity to execute in and things repair themselves over time.
So there’s a possibility of it.
I think again we’ve said that we believe we will see some idle capacity in the near term.
I think you’ve already seen some.
Our competitors have also experienced a bit of it.
But again as soon as we can work through this capacity in ’14 and see how it plays out I think we’re just going to have to work very hard to place our rigs.
We’ll take our next question from Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Wanted to ask you about potential for further newbuilds in the sense that you have these four newbuilds with Shell.
And are there other opportunities to build rigs against contracts now? I’m trying to infer whether your comments about the equilibrium in the market would argue against that kind of opportunity or whether you see some of your major customers thinking about building rigs to their specification on multiyear contracts which you might take advantage of.
We have great opportunities to continue those discussions with our customers.
And right now we are in discussions to do just what you suggest of building to some specific specifications.
And we do like that opportunity because it gives us the ability to create something that doesn’t exist in the marketplace today.
And I think that that is one of our strengths and certainly the customers that we deal with agree with that too.
So we have the depth to set down with a truly talented engineering and newbuild team and create something really great that the customer can apply to their business going forward.
Then I wanted to ask Esa if he could as you’ve done in the past kind of update us on your thoughts about a limited partnership.
You just told us about the contracts on the Clear Leader and Inspiration so you’re clearly signing some long term deals.
Just wondering if you could update us on your thoughts there.
Thanks for the opportunity to update.
We do have some great assets and some great contracts that would actually fit really nicely into the MLP world.
We’ve continued our evaluation evaluating the pros and cons and different structural alternatives different ways to execute an MLP.
I think our overriding conclusion is that an MLP would fit into our capital structure really well.
It would provide us with additional source of capital it would increase our financial flexibility and offer us a new currency as well and potentially also attractive economics.
We also believe that we would be able to structure it in such a way that it would overall be credit neutral and allow us to continue as an investment grade rate company which is obviously very important to us as you know.
But we’ve also on the downside stated several times that it would come at a cost and a complexity that should not be underestimated.
The tax complexity is significant and so is the complexity of actually operating a separate entity side by side with the seaport.
Also the cyclical nature of our business the long term valuation risk associated with the asset class combined with the drilling volatility is a key concern.
So all in all we’re positive but cautious about the MLP as a source of capital for Transocean.
As I said it would fit into our capital structure and provide support for our capital allocation strategy as well funds for potential growth and fleet highgrading as well as cash needed to distribute to our shareholders.
So we’re still continuing our process and continuing to have our internal discussions about the applicability and potential timing for such a thing.
So not the right time to conclude as yet but we’re clearly making a lot of progress in the area.
And we’ll go now to Ian MacPherson with Simmons.
Terry I wanted to ask you about the extensions.
I assume when you mentioned the Inspiration the Clear Leader those are extensions from Chevron in the Gulf of Mexico? And can you provide some background on why we’re seeing very good rates but also longer duration on the first renewals of these sixth generation assets and how they compare with the very prototypical two to three year term that new rigs are getting as they come out of the yard.
Is there a premium that’s placed on these broken in sixth generation rigs that gives them better marketing leverage? Is that the explanation? Or is there something more situational here? I think this is a good example of what I was trying to allude to the building a rig to customers’ specifications and working really really hard in developing these long term relationships and delivering operational excellence that you get these opportunities to renew your fleet a little bit longer term because the customer wants to keep the rig.
They’re very happy with what they’ve accomplished together and they feel comfortable and very excited to be able to give more long term to continue their programs.
And they’ve got a lot of work to do in the Gulf of Mexico and it certainly makes sense for both of us.
So Chevron has been a fantastic relationship for Transocean and we’re just very proud to be able to work with them in the Gulf of Mexico with these two rigs.
You’ve seen the rates for the lower end ultradeepwater class between $520 000 and $570 000.
Is that how we should think about the market rates for most of your fifth generation rigs? Obviously the GSF Explorer going to [ONGC] or more of a down market contract seems like it was an outlier.
And I think it would be informative for us to know whether there are other outliers or if the bulk of your fifth generation fleet pertains to that $520 000 to $570 000 market range that you alluded to.
Well you know I think that’s a tough question.
I think that your assessment of the Explorer is accurate as an outlier.
This was a less capable rig and certainly wasn’t capable of drilling these tougher deeper wells in the [pre-salt].
So that was one of the things that we also found ourselves at a moment where there was not a lot of opportunity out there and this rig is perfectly capable to deliver these ONGC wells.
Again she’s a lot older than the current fifth and sixth generation rigs that are doing these tough wells.
So that was one of the outliers as you described.
I would tell you that we can’t really give you a clear answer on the second question because we’re in final negotiations on our available 2013 fleet.
So I wouldn’t give our competitors any opportunity to step in and steal these from us because I don’t like that happening.
So we better just tell you that we’re very positive on where we are in the negotiations and I think you’ll see some positive results here shortly.
We’ll go next to Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
Just had a follow up.
Esa in your commentary about the MLP at least the way I would interpret it came away as more positive than negative.
Within that context not putting any particular words in your mouth but just trying to get a sense as to whether or not at this juncture when you think about that MLP there’s something that could be more likely and if so is there something that you think could transpire within the next 12 months or so? Very smart question.
Puts me in an interesting place of course but the reality is that we haven’t taken a decision on an MLP yet and that’s the only right way to answer your question.
We just haven’t made a decision on that.
We continue our discussions.
There’s always continued engagement with our board and over the next couple of months I would believe that we would have clarity on this issue as well as some other issues that we are currently in discussions on.
So you’ll just have to bear with us a little bit and be patient with us but currently no decisions and no reason to read between the lines based on what I just said.
We haven’t taken a position and everything else would be a bit speculative at this moment in time.
Theoretically I think I said earlier that if one would decide to do an MLP it’s probably a nine to 12 month journey recognizing the carve out requirements and audited financials and other things that would be required for the IPO.
So that’s the sort of timeframe you would be looking at.
But again that’s speculative in the absence of a board decision.
And then Terry maybe for you on the market.
Most people on this call and most investors are probably uncomfortable with the prospect of a flat day rate environment.
At least that’s the feedback that I get in the context of either the rates are going up or they’re going down.
And if they’re not going up or down then they’re about to go up or down.
So in the context of what you’ve already indicated vis-à-vis the market dynamics it seems like a little bit more of a situation of maybe… I’m not going to put words in your mouth.
In your mind is it excess or is it just [unintelligible] finally balanced that we could see a flat ultradeepwater day rate environment extend out well into 2014? What’s your best guess on that right now? You know I like the word that you used Kurt.
You said balance.
And I think that’s where we find ourselves today is there’s a balance and the recent tendering activity was certainly up over the first quarter and it was very encouraging to see these rigs attain contracts.
I think that was a positive.
But I think what it shows you is that they were all about in the range.
So I think we are balanced and I think if we are able to continue to be able to continue in that same mode then it’s where it’s headed.
I don’t see it modulating until we hit a place in time where our customers can’t simply move forward and contract the rigs.
But I think balance is the right answer.
We’ll go next to Scott Gruber of Bernstein.
I want to come back to the MLP issue just for a second.
Esa it perplexes me a bit when I think about the MLP in the context of Transocean.
Could you just provide some more color and thoughts around why you’d need another source of equity financing if you’re going to maintain a more conservative investment approach and only build rigs against firm contracts? Well I’m not sure I said we needed one.
I said it would fit in and provide additional flexibility and an additional source of capital.
A lot of that depends on the asset strategy execution and the direction it takes.
Obviously a lot of that depends on the pace with which we will aim to increase the dividend distribution and so on.
All I was saying is it would fit into our capital structure.
It would provide an additional source an additional currency and provide us with additional flexibility.
So I wouldn’t suggest that that’s a must have for us.
It’s something that looks attractive and provides us with something that we might benefit from.
But it comes at a cost and complexity and that’s a really important part of it.
So if I gave you the impression that we would in any shape or form be in a spot where we would actually need one I don’t think that is right.
If I could just supplement what Esa is saying reinforce what Esa is saying we’ve done a tremendous amount of analytical work.
Esa has led a team that’s been focused on this for the last several months.
So we’ve gotten to the point where as Esa has said it could be a component of our capital strategy.
But you’ve got to put that capital strategy alongside our operating strategy and our asset strategy and these are all ongoing discussions with our board.
We are not going to do an MLP for the sake of doing an MLP.
If we find that as an element of our capital strategy it supports our asset strategy or our operating strategy then it’s a possibility.
But that’s kind of where the discussions are right now.
If I could follow up on the cost savings initiatives if memory serves you guys were originally talking about realizing the $300 million in early ’14.
Now it seems like it’s going to take a little bit longer than that.
Can you just talk about the timing around realizing the $300 million and any delays that you see today? No I think you misunderstood some of our communications.
Actually our story hasn’t changed at all.
If anything we’ve accelerated a little bit.
So from the moment we announced the $300 million program we said that we will be able to deliver the full impact in 2015.
We said our best estimate at the early stages was that two-thirds of those benefits equaling about $200 million would be achievable already in 2014.
You have to keep in mind that it takes a little while to actually first do the definition reorganize the company redesign processes.
That is important because what you want to do is you want to do this well and you want to make sure that your benefits are sustainable and as a result you don’t actually generate any unintended consequences.
So consistently we’ve said $300 million in 2015.
And I repeat what I said earlier about 2014.
Two-thirds of the benefits achievable already next year and that is exactly what I just said also during my commentary.
Steven if I could sneak in one additional one.
When you were at our conference this past spring you mentioned your belief that you would be able to close the EBITDA margin gap with peers in another two planning cycles which would mean about late 2015.
Do you still hold that view? Yeah I think based on the work we’ve done already I think the timeline we’ve laid out for ourselves meshes nicely with the expectations I’ve set publicly.
And we’ll take our next question from David Smith with Johnson &amp; Rice.
Just a housekeeping question.
Going back to the sale of assets to Shelf Drilling for $1.05 billion if I’m reading the 10-Q correctly in addition to the $195 million in preferenced shares you sold you also received $568 million in cash.
And since the original press release described $855 million of cash how should we think about modeling the timing for Transocean to receive the remaining $287 million? Is that something that happens just as the management of the assets is fully transitioned? You are right it actually grows over time so in addition to the initial cash that we received I think we’ve consistently also said that it will take up to 15 16 months to generate the rest through a transition that will see us collecting working capital and inventory related payments from Shelf Drilling.
And the current estimate is that during the first half of next year all that would be completed.
Give or take a few million dollars but it will be the vast majority of the cash expected to come in to Transocean generated within that timeframe.
And the follow up question is for Terry.
When you mentioned some potential for incremental idle capacity in the near term on the deepwater fleet do you mean some temporary gaps between contracts? Is this something you’re thinking for one of your rigs? Just wondering if you could give a little more color around the comment.
Yeah I think you’re seeing it not only in our fleet but you’re seeing it also in several instances in the global fleet.
But I think there will be if we have this loosening or inter-term softness just because of the sheer numbers I think you’ll see some idle time between being able to move to the next contract.
I can’t predict what that looks like right now but I just think that we’ll see some of that because we’re going to be rolling these rigs over now on a little bit of a shorter term project.
So it’s a natural phenomenon that’s happened historically in the past when we work these on shorter term contracts.
It’s just moving to the next location and these type of things.
And we’ll take our final question from J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Company.
Just a quick follow up on that last question Terry about the delays between contracts.
So you do see some of the rigs that are rolling over are going to be moving between regions? And which regions do you think we can see rigs leave from and go to? If you look at the open opportunities specifically talking about the deepwater fleet we’re bidding several opportunities in Africa.
We’re bidding several opportunities in Asia and Australia.
So it just depends on where the fleet’s located.
We happen to have the luxury of having fleet in all these areas so it’s not like we’re relocating from one continent to another.
So we just see that we will be rolling over and over some of these vessels and it just may be some time between contracts.
But we’re trying to ensure that we’re in direct continuation at all times.
But I just see that there may be some instances where that won’t occur.
And I guess my next question is could you see some of these rigs leave the Gulf? And if that’s so then when you talk about the $520 000 to $570 000 range are you talking about the $520 000 would be more of a Gulf of Mexico day rate and the $570 000 would be if you move these rigs elsewhere to higher cost areas? You know when we say dependent up on area location and dependent upon duration those certainly play a factor in the pricing.
But again we’re just going to have to wait and see how this plays out.
But if you’re specifically talking to the deepwater fleet then those ranges were given for the ultradeepwater fleet.
All right thank you all very much for your participation in today’s call.
Look forward to speaking with you when we report our third quarter results.
To the extent that there are any additional questions that you have feel free to give me or Diane a call this afternoon and tomorrow.
Have a good day.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead.
Good day everyone.
Thank you operator and welcome to Transocean’s third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules are posted on the company’s website at deepwater.com.
We’ve also posted supplemental materials that you may find helpful as you update your financial models.
These materials can be found on the company’s website by selecting Quarterly Toolkit under the Investor Relations tab.
Joining me this morning as usual on the call are Steven Newman chief executive officer; Esa Ikaheimonen executive vice president and chief financial officer; and Terry Bonno senior vice president of marketing.
Before I turn our call over to Steven I would like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Among others these include future financial performance operating results estimated contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident anticipated results of our cost savings initiatives capital allocation and strategy newbuild projects and the prospects for the contract drilling business generally.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it’s inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices; rig demand; and the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the company’s most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
You will find the required supplemental financial disclosures for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Quarterly Toolkit and Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations.
Finally to give more folks an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thanks very much.
I’ll now turn the call over to our CEO Steven Newman.
Steven?  Thanks Thad and welcome to our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
I’m very pleased to say that our third quarter results demonstrated clear progress towards several key objectives.
For the third quarter we reported adjusted earnings from continuing operations of [unintelligible] million or $1.37 per diluted share.
Including $47 million in net favorable items we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $546 million or $1.50 per diluted share.
Our third quarter financial performance reflect continued operating improvement.
Our revenue efficiency was 94% compared to 93.1% in the second quarter and fleet utilization was 83% compared to 80% in the prior quarter.
These improvements translated into an increase of $81 million in contract drilling revenues about half of the total increase of $161 million in consolidated revenues.
The remainder is associated with increased activity in drilling management services.
These improvements were partially offset by an increase of $98 million in operating and maintenance costs mostly due to drilling management services and to a lesser extent higher shipyard costs.
In a few minutes Esa will take you through the third quarter numbers in more detail as well as provide you with guidance for the remainder of the year and our preliminary outlook for 2014.
During the quarter we continued with our fleet transformation efforts with the commencement of operations on the Transocean Ao Thai a newbuild high-spec jackup working for Chevron in Thailand under a long term contract.
We also announced a long term contract with Chevron for a state-of-the-art ultradeepwater drillship to be delivered in the second quarter of 2016.
The five-year contract on the drillship adds about $1.1 billion in backlog.
The $725 million in capital costs includes the shipyard contract project management owner-furnished equipment including a second BOP capital spares and inventory and all costs for operational readiness.
Our seven-rig ultradeepwater newbuild program remains on schedule including the deepwater Asgard and the deepwater Invictus which are scheduled to go to work in 2014.
And I appreciate the continued support of our shipyard partner and key suppliers in focusing on the on-time delivery of these important projects.
Yesterday we announced that we awarded contracts to Keppel FELS Limited’s shipyard in Singapore for the construction of five Super B 400 Bigfoot Class jackup rigs.
The delivery of the first of these high-specification jackups is scheduled for the first quarter of 2016 with the remaining four expected at approximately four month intervals thereafter.
We also have negotiated shipyard options for the construction of five additional Super B 400 jackups the first of which would need to be exercised in approximately one year.
The combined capital costs for the five firm rigs is estimated at approximately $1.2 billion an average of slightly under $240 million each.
This investment is another important step forward and is consistent with our strategy to continue to invest in premium high-return drilling assets.
We expect strong demand for these capable rigs as the renewal of the industry’s jackup fleet continues.
Our continued investment in high-spec floaters and jackups reflects our belief in the long term fundamentals of our business as our customers continue to focus on reserve replacement to provide the hydrocarbon energy the world needs.
While the ultradeepwater market is experiencing some near-term uncertainty and this is having an adverse impact on the demand for lower specification assets we believe the situation is temporary and that the market will fully absorb the uncontracted newbuilds entering the fleet and the existing rigs rolling off contract.
Terry will give you some more color on the markets in a moment.
I’m also encouraged by what I see in our organizational efficiency and broader margin improvement project.
Our shore-based teams around the world have responded extremely well to our need to ensure the company’s structure evolves along with the changing profile of our offshore fleet.
As we have discussed previously we anticipate achieving annualized savings through this effort of approximately $300 million with about $200 million accruing in 2014.
This has been a painful process.
We have had to say goodbye to colleagues who have contributed significantly to the company over the years.
However those who remain are extremely enthusiastic about the company’s future and I thank them for their continuing commitment to our success.
Regarding our offshore fleet cost reduction initiatives our operations teams are focused on optimizing personnel onboard the rigs and in [unintelligible] and on the efficient execution of our planned maintenance program.
Our project teams continue to reduce out of service time and expenditures associated with our major capital projects and our marketing teams are focused on ensuring that the terms and conditions that are contracts optimize the commercial partnerships with our customers.
I am fully confident that the combination of these efforts by these talented teams around the world will enable us to bridge the margin gap between us and our comparable peers.
These efforts are also essential for us to fulfill our commitment to sustain and grow our dividend which already represents one of the industry’s highest yields and implied payout ratio.
During the third quarter we continued to reduce some of the uncertainty surrounding the company.
I was pleased with the settlement of the two civil cases associated with the Frade Field incident in Brazil.
As a reminder the company assumed no financial obligation in this settlement and did not accept any fault or liability.
Brazil remains an important market for the industry overall and Transocean in particular and this resolution removes significant uncertainty about our ability and commitment to continue working safely and responsibly off shore Brazil.
With respect to ongoing litigation resulting from the Macondo well incident phase two of the trial has concluded and the parties are now comparing a close trial brief and proposed conclusions and findings of fact.
As the second phase was principally focused on source control and quantifying the amount of oil spilled Transocean had only a minor role and no new facts emerged in this process related to us.
Also during the quarter the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated its earlier reversal of the district court’s findings in the BP additional insured claim against our excess liability insurance policies and certified a number of key insurance law questions to the Texas Supreme Court.
As it relates to the Macondo litigation we remain confident in our overall position and the merits of our case.
Finally the criminal trial in Norway related to our historical tax positions and findings concluded in September.
We believe that our Norway tax returns are materially correct as filed and our tax and legal team did an excellent job defending this position in court.
We expect rulings sometime in the first half of 2014.
On a final note we recently sent out invitations to an analyst and investor day to be held on November 21 in New York.
This meeting which will be webcast with details provided later will provide us an opportunity to brief you on key elements of our operating asset and capital strategy and the near term plans in place to progress the execution of these strategies.
With that I’ll turn it over to Esa to take you through the numbers.
Esa? Thank you Steven.
Thanks to all of you for joining us today.
I’ll spend a few moments reviewing the key financial elements of our third quarter results and I’ll provide some comments on our full year expectations and finally close with preliminary guidance for 2014.
As Steven said we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $546 million or $1.50 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2013.
Our results for the quarter included $47 million or $0.13 per diluted share in after tax net favorable items detailed already in our press release.
Excluding these items our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $499 million or $1.37 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $1.08 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013.
Additionally related to severances certain existing benefit plans were accelerated into the third quarter as a result of our onshore reorganization resulting in about $11 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
For the third quarter of 2013 our consolidated revenues increased by $161 million to $2.66 billion compared with $2.4 billion in the prior quarter reflecting continued improvement in our operational performance.
As Steven said the increase was due to better fleet utilization and improved revenue efficiency as well as increases in other revenues reflecting higher activity levels in our drilling management services business.
Higher average day rates [unintelligible] particularly in the North Sea provided an additional positive contribution.
Third quarter operating and maintenance expenses increased sequentially by $98 million to $1.49 billion due primarily to increased drilling management services activity.
This was in line with the increase in revenue I mentioned already.
The increase in O&amp;M was also partly due to higher shipyard costs and an unfavorable adjustment in contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident.
While the increase in O&amp;M cost in the third quarter is consistent with the guidance I provided on our last earnings call we are beginning to see underlying reductions in our cost base as a result of the ongoing margin improvement initiatives mostly in shore-based costs so far.
General and administrative expenses were $67 million for the third quarter compared with $77 million in the second quarter which included some restructuring expenses and professional fees associated with preparations for the 2013 annual general meeting.
Due to the implementation of the shore-based organizational efficiency initiatives third quarter 2013 results included about $27 million in pre-tax costs associated with severance and accelerated recognition of existing compensation plans.
Approximately $23 million of this cost was included in operating and maintenance expenses and about $5 million was included in G&amp;A.
Depreciation expense for the quarter was $273 million compared with $286 million in the prior quarter.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized and interest income was $131 million compared with $135 million in the second quarter of 2013.
This reduction reflects the continued focus on gradually reducing our long term debt.
The third quarter annual effective tax rate from continuing operations was 19% compared with 23.5% in the prior quarter.
The decrease was primarily due to changes in the annual provision estimate related to favorable tax [unintelligible] and [unintelligible] the blend of income that is tax-based on growth revenues versus pretax income and rig movements between jurisdictions.
Net cash flow generated from operations increased to $623 million in the third quarter compared with $416 million in the second quarter of 2013.
This increase was primarily due to higher earnings in the third quarter.
Capital expenditures were $450 million in the third quarter an increase from $352 million in the prior quarter primarily due to timing of [unintelligible] spend associated with our newbuild program.
During the third quarter we prepaid a total of $77 million of debt as well as paid the second dividend installment to our shareholders totaling $0.56 per share or approximately $202 million.
This altogether resulted in $3.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the third quarter an increase of $203 million from the end of the second quarter.
I will now provide some updates to our 2013 guidance.
Given the steady improvement in operating performance throughout the year we are well capable of achieving revenue efficiencies similar to that reported in the second half of 2012 which averaged at about 95%.
However as we did not quite reach that level in Q3 we currently expect our full year revenue efficiencies to be about 92.5% just shy of our 93% objective.
This assumes that we continue to perform in the last couple of months at the current levels.
Other revenue is expected to be between $380 million and $400 million which is slightly lower than we originally anticipated.
Our annual operating and maintenance costs are now expected to be between $5.7 billion and $5.8 billion primarily due to the accelerated delivery of our cost improvement initiatives.
As a reminder this is at the low end of our original guidance range for 2013.
We expect to incur sequentially higher operating and maintenance expenses in the fourth quarter of 2013 primarily due to the increase in shipyard activities and projects which are largely reflected in our latest fleet status report.
Due to the shipyard activity we expect our Q4 O&amp;M expenses to increase to the range from $1.55 billion to $1.6 billion.
Furthermore we expect full year interest expense net of interest income and capitalized interest to be between $530 million and $540 million which is slightly lower than our original guidance.
Our full year 2013 G&amp;A expenses are now expected to be between $270 million and $280 million and our full year depreciation expense range of $1.1 billion to $1.15 billion is largely unchanged.
Our annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is expected to fall between 19% and 21% a slight improvement relative to prior expectations.
Capital expenditures guidance increased to approximately $2.7 billion as a result of the recently announced construction agreement for an additional ultradeepwater drillship and the order of five high-specification newbuild jackups.
As a reminder a schedule of expected annual payments for our current newbuild program is included on our website.
Turning now to our preliminary guidance for 2014 please keep in mind that we are still working through our budget and forecasting process and we will provide more refined guidance for 2014 when we report our fourth quarter 2013 results in February.
The shipyard activity that you will find in our most recent fleet status report continues to present our best and most up to date estimate of [unintelligible] in 2014.
As we have said before we advise caution as it is not uncommon for unplanned and exceptional shipyards to increase our out of service time even significantly.
We’re not able to predict such exceptional shipyards and consequently they cannot be included in our fleet status reports.
For 2014 we currently expect revenue efficiency to average approximately 94%.
Operating and maintenance costs for 2014 are expected to be $5.5 billion and $5.7 billion.
Recalling our original guidance for 2013 and adjusting for inflationary trends of some 5% per annum as well as the costs associated with the delivery and operation of newbuilds in 2013 and 2014 this represents a considerable reduction year on year.
This reduction reflects our commitment to reduce onshore overhead costs by $300 million by 2015 compared with our 2012 cost base.
In excess of $200 million of cost savings net of inflation are now included in this guidance for 2014 as well as the first phase of our other margin improvement initiatives savings to further improve our competitiveness.
We forecast our G&amp;A expenses to decline between $220 million and $240 million in 2014.
Furthermore we expect our capital expenditures to be approximately $2.3 billion in 2014 assuming no further newbuild commitments and associated progress payments.
The $2.3 billion already includes our recently announced newbuild drillship progress payments on our five-rig jackup newbuild program.
The expected future payments for our entire newbuild program are included in our third quarter 10-Q.
As our 2014 budgets are still not complete our estimates could change and will also be affected by changes in timing of shipyards decisions to reactivate more rigs and industry inflation trends among other things.
We continue to work to improve our entire cost base with the objective of achieving additional increases in our operating margins.
We have recently intensified our focus on offshore activities and continued improvement in our project execution.
These [specs] are expected to improve our profitability and cash flow considerably in 2014 and increasingly thereafter.
We will provide further guidance on these improvements when we report our fourth quarter results.
Finally a few updates on the balance sheet.
In line with our balanced capital allocation strategy we are progressing well with our plans to reduce our gross long term debt to a level below $9 billion and our goal of retiring approximately $1 billion in excess of existing repayment obligations by the end of 2014 also remains on track with approximately $370 million remaining.
Scheduled maturities for the remainder of 2013 and 2014 are expected to be modest about $20 million and $190 million respectively.
These figures exclude the payment obligations associated with the partial DOJ settlement on Macondo which is expected to be about $460 million in 2014.
There is no change to our short term liquidity target which remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion.
It is a prudent and responsible target for short term levels of liquidity until the uncertainties the company is currently facing are further reduced.
The liquidity target includes consolidated cash the undrawn $2 billion revolver and the [unintelligible] credit facility of $900 million.
Our liquidity target excludes the $599 million cash and collateral that is on deposit to pay the [unintelligible] export finance debt.
Considering the debt retirements capital expectations and the dividend distribution we expect to maintain our liquidity within the target range throughout 2014.
In the context of our balanced capital allocation strategy our commitment to return active cash to shareholders is unchanged.
During the third quarter we distributed the second of four installments of an approximately $800 million dividend approved by the shareholders at the May AGM.
Given our margin improvement and the healthy long term market outlook we believe that the current $2.24 per share dividend provides a solid basis for material future increases.
A final point.
We have completed our evaluation of the MLP as a potential element in our capital structure and intend to present the conclusions of our study to our board of directors at the upcoming November meeting.
We expect to provide an update no later than at our analyst day on November 21.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I’ll now hand the microphone over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Over to you Terry.
Thanks Esa and good morning to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
The third quarter of tendering activities slowed a bit over the previous quarter for the global floater fleet but still provided solid contracting opportunities for our fleet.
We increased contract backlog to $29.8 billion as of October 16 2013 from $27.3 billion as of July 17 representing approximately $4.5 billion of contracts signed during this period.
Additionally 95% of the contracted backlog we added including the ultradeepwater and newbuild was achieved through direct negotiations with satisfied customers avoiding the time and expense of an open tender.
Year to date we have added $7.6 billion of backlog and have now exceeded the 2012 year-end contract backlog of $29.4 billion.
Needless to say we are very proud of this accomplishment.
Fleet utilization improved to 83% from 80% and the average daily revenue jumped to $392 000 per day from $383 000 per day.
Numerous outstanding tenders for ultradeepwater units remain open particularly in West Africa as the pace of tendering has slowed due to regulatory requirements and governmental sanctioning of development programs putting pressure on near term day rates for available units.
Additionally during the third quarter we observed an increase in the number of farm out opportunities in the ultradeepwater and midwater floater markets.
While the near term softness has resulted in idle time for some of the floater fleet we remain confident in the long term fundamentals and our customers’ willingness to continue to increase their future activity levels as evidenced by the the contract with Chevron for a newbuild ultradeepwater drillship to be delivered in 2016.
Now to specific markets.
Utilization for the global ultradeepwater fleet is currently over 99% with one [unit] available the DWD which we are actively marketing and should have an update soon.
We expect to see some short term programs emerge that will provide opportunities for the available fleet into 2014.
However the near term will be choppy dependent upon the timing of the sanctioning of the outstanding programs in West Africa.
Rates have remained flat from the previous quarter of $550 000 per day to $600 000 per day depending upon area of operation and duration of the contract.
The lower specification ultradeepwater rigs may experience declining rates between $500 000 per day and $550 000 per day at least in the shorter term due to the preference of customers for higher specification units and newer equipment that are perceived to offer greater reliability and higher performance capabilities.
As a result day rates for bridging opportunities could be somewhat lower than this range.
That said the older lower spec units are fully capable to drill in most markets and we expect the improving long term ultradeepwater market will provide ample opportunities in the future.
Ultradeepwater demand is currently being driven by the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico Sub Saharan Africa and in certain emerging markets.
We expect demand in Brazil to increase in the medium term with the interest of the customers to quickly explore the recently awarded northern licenses in 2014 and 2014 and the recently announced high profile partnership to develop Libra.
Longer term we expect typical exploration success to lead to significant development drilling as our customers remain focused on replacement of reserves and are clearly looking to the deeper waters to fulfill this objective.
We were very pleased to announce the ultradeepwater newbuilds with Chevron for five years at $599 000 per day plus a bonus opportunity.
In addition we recently received a nine-month extension of the Discoverer Enterprise at $615 000 per day.
The tendering pace has also slowed for the deepwater market and the actively marketed utilization has dropped to about 88%.
The most recently observed day rate range was $425 000 per day to $475 000 per day although there have been relatively few new indicative global data day rate points.
We expect to see some idle time between contracts for these floaters in the near term.
We are pursuing opportunities for our available 2013 and 2014 fleet and are currently in advanced discussion on several opportunities with our customers.
Midwater and harsh environment tendering activity reduced in the third quarter with some contracting occurring in markets outside of the North Sea such as the 150-day extension on the Transocean [unintelligible] in Australia at $425 000 per day.
However the Norwegian North Sea and U.K.
market are at 100% utilization and we expect this to continue for the next couple of years.
Norway will become even tighter with the exit of the [Polar Pioneer] in early 2014 as she has received a contract for three years at $620 000 a day in Alaska.
We are excited about the opportunity to enter into a new frontier harsh environment market and further strengthen our excellent relationship with Shell.
Our availability is now limited to 2015 in the U.K.
and Norway with our recent extension of the Transocean [Winter] at $499 000 per day for 18 months in Norway.
Additionally we are already in discussions with customers for extensions beyond 2015 demonstrating the longer term strength of the U.K.
and Norway markets.
Outside these harsh environment areas we are seeing idle capacity including the Transocean Amirante and the Arctic I.
We are in active discussions on a few opportunities for our available fleet.
Utilization and day rates for premium jackups remain strong and improving demand in the Middle East Mexico India and Southeast Asia.
We expect all the [unintelligible] to be absorbed by the market and demand will continue to outstrip supply until at least 2014.
As demand growth continues to outstrip supply [unintelligible] rates for high-specification jackups have increased over $180 000 per day in West Africa $210 000 per day in the U.K.
and $250 000 per day in Saudi Arabia.
In summary the ultradeepwater market remains healthy.
While the pace of [fixtures] has moderated we see multiple exploration successes leading to significant development opportunities which we expect to absorb all the available capacity over the next several years.
Deepwater market utilization has dropped below 90% today and we are seeing incremental [idle] capacity in the near term though we expect this temporary softening to reverse as the ultradeepwater market strengths.
Midwater activity in the U.K.
and Norway and the premium jackup market remain robust.
Longer term we expect that customers’ focus on reserve replacement will create demand for offshore drilling equipment and provide ample opportunities for the existing fleet and for future growth.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thanks Terry.
With that operator we’re ready to open it up for questions.
[Operator instructions.] And we’ll take our first question from Collin Gerry with Raymond James.
Could you give us a little bit more specificity in terms of where the cost reductions are coming from? We talked about the $300 million cost-cutting effort a while back.
Is that all of that? Is there more to come following that? And then what other onshore or back office initiatives are in place on the margin improvement side of things? Thanks for recognizing that it is actually pretty impressive guidance and I wouldn’t mind giving some further color to that given the opportunity.
If you look at the original 2013 guidance including the G&amp;A our guidance was $66.2 billion.
Just a reminder that’s including G&amp;A.
Now if we include G&amp;A to our preliminary 2014 guidance the corresponding figure is between $5.7 billion and $5.95 billion so there’s a $300 million reduction at a headline level already and that’s not even accounting for inflation.
So I think you’re right it’s pretty impressive.
Now where does it come from? It really comes from across the [unintelligible].
Fairly significant onshore reduction in line with our earlier commitments to reduce about $200 million in comparison with the 2012 base.
So that’s included now.
It’s not exactly $200 million on a year on year basis because part of the onshore expenses also got transferred as part of the jackup deal.
But it’s a significant part of that.
Another significant part has to do with our project execution performance in our current budget and guidance and the third one is that we are starting to see improvements on the offshore cost base as well which has to do with the way we operate the rigs.
But that’s maintenance that’s manning at the offshore level and all the associated expense.
So that’s the way I would like to break it down.
We’ll provide further information about that when we report in more detail and a more refined format and that will be in February when we report our Q4.
And when you say project execution I’m looking at the out of service cost per day in the ultradeepwater space.
It came in considerably lower than the last couple of quarters and maybe where a lot of people were modeling.
Is that the number that reflects your statement of project execution? Yeah it’s volatile is one way of looking at that.
So quarter on quarter comparisons are potentially a bit misguiding but that’s kind of what overall is going to reflect the improving performance.
But you have to keep in mind that it’s not just out of service time related because the mix of projects has got a big impact.
So the more we do a lot of enhancement projects the more we capitalize the more we do periodic survey type activity and five-year [SPSs] and so on the more we expense.
So it really is a mixed bag but that’s kind of the activity that drives the improvement there.
And then last one from me is kind of a detail one.
So the payments that you’ve outlaid in your press releases for Macondo where do those show up in the cash flow statement? Is there a specific line item that we should see or that is in one of the different buckets? Yeah they’re part of the operating cash flow.
So working capital comes down as a result.
So it’s in operating cash? Correct.
And we’ll take our next question from Judd Bailey with ISI Group.
I wanted to ask a couple of questions just following up on Terry’s comments on the ultradeepwater and deepwater segment if I could.
Terry did I hear you right that you expect some weakness for lower-tier ultradeepwater rigs to the $500 000 to $550 000 range? Is that predominantly for some of the smaller fifth gens that you have? That’s what we’re seeing right now that sort of pattern.
We know that as we look at some of the open opportunities and as we put our ear to the street trying to figure out where we are that’s the range that we end up in.
And then on the deepwater side you noted recent fixtures - there haven’t been a lot of them - were $425 000 to $475 000 and your [unintelligible] is going to be more weakness probably below that range? We may see some competitors with lower rates below that range? I just want to clarify that we could see more of a step down whether it’s temporary or not for some of the deepwater rigs.
I think what we may see here is we may end up seeing a few of the deepwater rigs being bid into the midwater market.
So I think you’re going to see that phenomenon just like we saw in the last cycle.
And since there’s very few data points and not a lot of tendering I expect that the tendering is going to be very competitive.
So I think there’s a chance that that may happen.
And do you think that’s a dynamic that’s going to kind of continue throughout 2014 and into 2015? You kind of alluded that some of this stuff could be temporary.
Do you think that dynamic will reverse itself or do you think that’s just kind of going to be how the market’s going to be for the next couple of years as all these ultradeepwater rigs come in? I think it’s temporary.
I think we could get a lot of health in the market if we could get these multiple opportunities in West Africa.
And if we had any help from the Brazilian market I think that this market looks a lot better.
I don’t really have an exact timeframe that we’re looking at.
And another thing I think that potentially could help the market it’s unfortunate is the delays of the rigs coming out of the shipyards.
So if you see some of those delays then we may have some filler opportunities for our fleet and for our competitors’ fleet.
And then my last question would be it sounds like we’re going to have some gaps between jobs for some of your deepwater rigs.
Can you give us any type of insight as to what’s a decent timeframe? Should we count on three months six months? Or is it just going to vary depending on the rig and the specification and the location of the rig? I think the latter part of your commentary is fairly accurate.
And we’ll take our next question from [Lucas] [unintelligible] with [APG].
Terry if I may considering the bifurcation theme that you sort of touched upon you were saying that most of the lower spec rigs are able to drill the [prospect] that the higher end rigs are getting contracted for.
I was wondering is there sort of a meaningful spread in the day rate where operators would be willing to go for the older lower-spec rigs? Or is the technical specification [unintelligible] just excluding them? To answer the first part of your question there’s always a meaningful differentiation in the numbers depending upon the type of equipment.
When we look at our competitive tendering that’s what we like to look at.
We can see against dual activity single activity offline handling and I think you have to look at the programs that are being drilled you have to look at the efficiencies and you have to figure out what’s competitive.
But to look at what’s happened recently we haven’t seen that phenomenon because of the availability of the ultradeepwater newbuilds.
There’s clearly a preference so there hasn’t been a price differentiation that has actually come into play yet.
So we’re looking at every opportunity on a case by case basis and like I said once this market gets tight these rigs are perfectly capable of drilling a huge portion of the world’s resources.
And when you talk about the license project sanctioning in for example West Africa is that coming from the operators or is it coming more from the authorities? Well the governmental authorities have to sanction the project and approve the programs that are to be drilled and if you look at a couple of examples in West Africa we’ve got one tender that we participated in in Angola that’s still on the plate and that started a year ago.
So it’s just something that we deal with in West Africa and it’s pretty typical.
But there is a tremendous amount of demand there and like I said as soon as we see those programs being awarded I think our market looks a lot better.
We’ll take our next question from J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Company.
I just had a quick question on the West African opportunity.
Could you guys give us an idea of how many rigs could actually be taken if all of these projects were sanctioned? You know today we’re looking at anywhere from 8 to 10 that have already been tendered.
And we know that there’s more to come.
So there’s a lot of capacity there that could be fulfilled.
So I think when you look at 8 to 10 rigs in 2014 that changes things up quite a bit.
And same question on Brazil.
If projects there were accelerated particularly in the Libra side of things same question.
How many rigs do you think of the older rigs do you think Brazil could take? I think we have to look at numbers instead of older rigs.
You know in order to develop that program what we’re hearing the preliminary numbers are that wells to be drilled are between 200 to 300 wells.
And if you add that to the northern opportunity that we know the independents have signed and quickly put a consortium together to start drilling those prospects and then the majors are looking to the 2015 season.
Again I think it helps the numbers and it supports what we’re saying.
As we get through this near term softness to the other side of development of more demand because of the success in the exploration programs I think this market starts to look really good.
Okay and one final one just kind of rig-specific on the Polar Pioneer when you move it to Alaska what’s the daily operating cost there compared to Norway? Is it about the same? You know right now we’re going through that.
I don’t want to really talk about the specifics of the contract.
But what we didn’t know we protected ourselves and then the pricing that we did know… So I wouldn’t say it’s very dissimilar to the U.K.
but we’re just going to have to wait and see.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
I’ll turn it back to Thad Vayda for any closing remarks.
I’d like to thank everyone for their participation today.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter call early next year if not sooner.
Have a good day.
Please standby we are about to begin.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Transocean Q4 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Bennett.
Good day to everyone.
And welcome to Transocean’s fourth quarter and year end 2013 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules are posted on the company’s website at www.deepwater.com.
We’ve also posted some supplemental materials that you may find helpful as you update your financial models.
These materials can be found on the company’s website by selecting Financial Reports under the Investor Relations tab.
Joining me this morning are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikaheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn our call over to Steven I would like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Among others these include future financial performance operating results estimated contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident anticipated results of our cost savings initiatives strategic projects and corporate financing activities capital allocation and strategy newbuild project and the prospects for the contract drilling business generally.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it’s inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand and the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the company’s most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
You will find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these materials -- for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at deepwater.com under Investor Relations Financial Reports and Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Finally to give more folks an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thanks very much for corporation in this regard.
I’ll now held the -- hand the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad.
And welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
Before I comment on the quarter’s results I would like to review some highlights from 2013.
We started the year on a positive note by reaching agreement with the Department of Justice to resolve certain claims against the company related to the Macondo well incident.
This agreement removed some of the uncertainty associated with this complex and ongoing litigation.
Additionally later in the year we settled the two civil cases associated with the project field incident in Brazil.
As a reminder the company assumed no financial obligation in this settlement and did not accept any fault or liability.
We initiated a dividend of $2.24 per share which was approved by our shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and represents one of the industry's largest yields and highest implied payout ratios.
We are committed to a sustainable and growing distribution of capital and as you know recently announced that our Board will recommend that our shareholders approve a $3 per share dividend at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
During 2013 we added approximately $7.9 billion in backlog including the five-year contract with Chevron for the Deepwater Conqueror to be delivered in the second quarter of 2016 as well as four and five-year contract renewals with the same customer on two existing ultra-deepwater drillships.
This backlog highlights the strength of our marketing team and the deep customer relationships which they have nurtured over the years.
Our current backlog of approximately $27 million includes seven newbuild ultra-deepwater drillships.
As part of our fleet renewal we announced shipyard contracts valued at approximately $1.2 billion to construct five Super B 400 Bigfoot Class jackup rigs with options for five additional rigs.
We continue to expect strong demand for these rigs as the renewal of the industry’s jackup fleet continues.
Our three newbuild high specification jackups commenced operations and achieved revenue efficiency for the year in excess of 100% with zero recordable safety incidents.
In addition to adding rigs to the fleet we continue with our fleet transformation efforts by divesting eight non-core assets in 2013.
To improve the company's competitiveness we committed to eliminating the margin differential between Transocean and our comparable peers by the end of 2015.
We've taken important steps to continue to improve the company’s financial flexibility including executing our celebrated debt repayment program and announcing our intent to launch an MLP in 2014.
We announced the three-year partnership with Shell to develop a next-generation BOP control system designed to be fault-resistant and fault-tolerant with the goal of eliminating BOP control system downtime.
And finally reflective of the progress we have made and the support from our shareholders we reached an agreement with icon associates to recommend an additional icon nominee for election to our Board of Directors.
Needless to say 2013 was a very productive year.
I am pleased to highlight that in early 2014 we continue to make progress in our fleet renewal objectives.
Last night we announced that we had signed contracts with Jurong Shipyard in Singapore for the construction of two ultra-deepwater floaters with options for three more.
The two firm ships are expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2017 and first quarter of 2018 and continues our fleet renewal process at a capital cost of approximately $620 -- $620 million dollars each for each drillship.
We expect attractive returns on these investments.
Additionally we have negotiated very favorable payment terms of 5% at order placement and 95% at delivered for the first rig and similarly favorable terms for the second rig.
The ships will be outfitted with 15k well control equipment one single BOP and 8 000 feet of riser.
As part of the agreement with Jurong we have the ability to add a second BOP and additional riser to each ship should we choose to do so.
Moving now to the fourth quarter 2013 results we reported adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $267 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
Including $34 million in net unfavorable items we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $233 million or $0.64 per diluted share.
While our adjusted earnings are generally in line with consensus expectations our fourth quarter operating results reflected a sequential decline in revenues driven mainly by lower utilization average fleet utilization was 75% for the fourth quarter compared with 83% in the third quarter.
The result of an expected increase in planned out of service time and idle rigs.
Fleet average revenue efficiency was a disappointing 91.7% in the fourth quarter compared with 94% in the third quarter 2013.
This deterioration in revenue efficiency was the result of well control equipment related downtime on certain ultra-deepwater rigs.
The increase in average daily revenues we realized in the quarter was not enough to overcome lower utilization and revenue efficiency results.
As expected we incurred sequentially higher O&amp;M costs during the quarter primarily as a result of the higher shipyard related out-of-service time.
Esa will take you through the numbers and some detail including our updated guidance for 2014 in a moment.
The unacceptable setback in revenue efficiency in the fourth quarter highlighted specific rigs in geographic regions where additional focus on operational improvement is required.
And we are taking aggressive steps to address the issues we have identified.
These include a focus on continuously improving the training and competency of our people regularly enhancing the procedures we expect our people to implement and follow and further strengthening our relationships with the key vendors whose success is so important to our own.
Notwithstanding our disappointing operational performance in the period I remain convinced that we continue to take the right actions to drive improved performance across the Transocean fleet.
Regarding our longer term strategies we continue to pursue a balanced approach to capital allocation by making value enhancing capital investments returning excess cash to shareholders and reducing debt to ensure financial flexibility.
In a cyclical industry financial flexibility is an important and essential competitive advantage.
Our investment grade credit rating which we intend to retain and the MLP like vehicle are both in pursuit of maximizing our financial flexibility and enhance our ability to be opportunistic.
Also the actions I alluded to earlier regarding operating performance along with our cost reduction efforts will support our ability to translate contracted backlog into improved operating margins.
We remain intently focused on eliminating the margin differential between Transocean and our comparable peers.
Regarding our ongoing efforts to transform our fleet the three newbuild high-specification jackups which commenced operations in 2013 were delivered on time and under budget and due to performance-related bonus payment achieved revenue efficiency for the year in excess of 100% with zero recordable safety incidents.
I commend the Transocean project management and operations teams for this best in class performance.
I anticipate similarly trouble-free startups and excellent operating performance of the Deepwater Asgard and Deepwater Invictus when they commence operations in the second quarter of this year.
The other 12 newbuild projects including seven high-specification ultra-deepwater drillships and five high-specification jackups remain on track with deliveries starting in late 2015.
All of our near-term newbuild ultra-deepwater drillship deliveries are backed by contract.
We also continue to focus on the divesture of non-core assets to reduce our exposure to less capable and less differentiated rigs.
To this end we recently sold the GSF monitor which had been working in Nigeria.
Our overall objective is to continue to position Transocean as the industry’s leader in high-specification assets both floaters and jackups.
As we announced on our Analyst Day in November we expect the long-term targeted Transocean fleet to be comprised of approximately 50% ultra-deepwater floaters 40% high-specification jackups and 10% harsh environment rigs.
We continue to pursue a variety of options for divestiture of non-core rigs to improve the overall age and capability profile of our fleet and to fund high return reinvestment.
As we have said previously assuming a fair valuation we are evaluating all divesture options including individual or package rig sales and IPO or a spin.
As one example we believe that our North Sea midwater floater business represents an attractive and relatively easily packagable and separable business with strong cash flow significant contract backlog and a highly respected reputation in the region.
Also with the continued focus on reducing our exposure to non-core assets and activities in late February we sold ADTI U.K.
marking Transocean's exit from the turnkey drilling business.
You may recall that we had previously exited the same business in U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
I appreciate all the efforts by the ADTI team over the years in achieving customer goals through integrated project management and turnkey drilling services.
During the fourth quarter we paid the third of four installments of our 2013 dividend.
As previously mentioned the board intends to recommend to our shareholders an approximate 34% increase in the dividend to $3 per share an implied yield of nearly 7%.
This will be formalized in our upcoming proxy and shareholders will be asked to vote for this increase at the 2014 AGM.
With respect to the ongoing litigation resulting from the Macondo well incident phase 2 of the trial concluded last fall and all the parties have now submitted their post trial briefs.
Judge Barbier has not provided any clear indication as to when or if he will issue rulings on phases one and two or any of the other Transocean motions pending before the court.
As it relates to the Macondo litigation we remain confident in our overall position and the merits of our case.
At the same time we remain open to the possibility of a reasonable business resolution of the outstanding claims against us.
In Norway the criminal trial related to our historical tax positions and filings also concluded last fall.
And we await the courts ruling which we expect sometime in the next few months.
We continue to believe that our Norway tax returns are materially correct as filed and will continue to defend against any claims to the contrary.
I want to close with a few comments on the market.
As we have regularly reminded folks offshore drilling is a cyclical business.
At this point while commodity prices remain robust there is a near-term increase in the supply of drilling rigs concurrent with late demand for rig capacity on the part of our customers.
As you know drilling contractors cannot create demand.
That said we have all been through cycles before and I have not observed anything about the recent market conditions that causes me to question the favorable long-term fundamentals for our business.
Our objective at Transocean is to position the company to compete effectively regardless of where we are in the cycle.
And I believe we continue to take the right actions to position the company for success.
With the backlog of about $27 billion we have a strong and stable foundation to see us through current market conditions.
With that I will turn it over to Esa to take you through the numbers after which Terry will provide her perspectives on the market.
Esa? Thank you Steven and good morning good afternoon everyone.
I will discuss the key elements of our fourth quarter results and then update our 2014 full year guidance.
As Steven mentioned we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $233 million or $0.64 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2013.
These results included $34 million or $0.09 per share in net unfavorable items already detailed in our press release.
Excluding these items our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $267 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings of $1.37 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013.
For the fourth quarter our consolidated revenues from continuing operations decreased from the prior quarter by $226 million to $2.33 billion.
Contract drilling revenues decreased by $200 million.
This decrease was due to two main factors.
Number one was a decline in fleet utilization from 83% to 75% primarily as a result of an expected increase in planned shipyards as well as idle and stacked rigs.
The increase in out-of-service time was in line with our prior quarter’s guidance and was reflected in our fleet status reports and updates.
Number two was a -- was a decrease in revenue efficiency to 91.7% from 94%.
This decline was mainly due to well control equipment downtime on certain ultra-deepwater rigs as Steven already mentioned.
These unfavorable variances were probably offset by higher average dayrates and the commencement of operations of high-specification jackup Transocean out buy.
Other revenues decreased about $26 million due to a decrease in our low margin Drilling Management Services business.
Lastly consistent with our expectations and below our guidance range fourth quarter operating and maintenance expenses were $1.53 billion compared with $1.49 billion in the third quarter of 2013 an increase of $41 million.
Shipyard and maintenance cost increased by $107 million.
This increase was partly offset by lower overhead expense resulting from the ongoing shore-based organizational efficiency initiative.
Drilling Management Services costs declined by $28 million in line with the mentioned reduction in other revenues.
General and administrative expenses increased to $75 million for the fourth quarter compared with $67 million in the previous quarter largely due to higher professional fees and to a lesser extent personnel costs.
Interest expense net of amounts capitalized and interest income was $126 million compared with $131 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter was $275 million compared with $273 million in the prior quarter.
On tax rate the fourth quarter annual effective tax rate from continuing operations after adjusting for unusual items was 17.7% compared with 19% in the prior quarter.
The full year 2013 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations was 20% which is within our guidance range and reflected the slight decrease from an adjusted 20.6% for the nine months ended September 30th.
This decrease was primarily due to the blend of income that is taxed based on gross revenues versus pre-tax income unusual rig movements between jurisdictions.
Net cash flow generated from operations increased to $773 million in the fourth quarter compared with $623 million in the third quarter of 2013.
This increase was mainly due to reduction in working capital.
On CapEx -- capital expenditures were $948 million in the fourth quarter up from $450 million in the prior quarter.
This was primarily due to the timing of payments of our newbuild program.
During the fourth quarter as already mentioned we paid $0.56 per share or approximately $202 million the third installment of the dividend approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
This altogether resulted in a healthy $3.24 billion in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the fourth quarter a decrease of $360 million from the end of the third quarter.
I will now turn to our full year 2014 guidance.
Firstly we maintain our revenue efficiency guidance of approximately 94% for the fleet for 2014.
Although the fourth quarter had its challenges we have experienced periods of improving revenue efficiency and continue to believe that our 2014 guidance and historical revenue efficiency levels of about 95% are achievable.
Our revenue efficiency for the first two months of 2014 is in excess of this guidance.
The shipyard activity that you'll find in our most recent fleet status reports continues to represent our current estimate of planned out-of-service time in 2014.
As we have said many times before we advise caution as it is not uncommon for unplanned or exceptional major shipyards to significantly increase out-of-service time and expenditure.
We are not able to accurately predict such exceptional shipyards and consequently they cannot be included in our guidance or fleet status reports and updates.
I would also like to reemphasize the prevailing market conditions have the potential to have an adverse impact on our near-term utilization.
Terry will provide a bit more color on this topic.
As a result of the sale of ADTI U.K.
that Steven also mentioned other revenues are expected to be between $125 million and $150 million for the full year 2014.
Other revenues now primarily include recharged revenues from our customers.
We currently estimate our full year 2014 operating and maintenance expense to be between $5.2 billion or $5.4 billion.
This represents about 7% to 10% reduction over our full year 2013 O&amp;M costs and is $300 million lower than our preliminary 2014 guidance partly due to ADTI sale.
The decrease in 2014 O&amp;M costs as compared with 2013 is due to the following.
I will cover the increases first.
We foresee continuing inflation in both labor and maintenance.
And we are anticipating a clear leverage inflation of approximately 45%.
As a reminder some of our contracts include cost escalation clauses aiming to offset these cost increases with additional revenue.
The second is increased activity associated with our two newbuild ultra-deepwater rigs the Deepwater Asgard and the Deepwater Invictus commencing operations in 2014.
And the full year of operations of the premium newbuild jackups which commenced operations in 2013 as well as our continuous training and development of crews demeanor our ongoing newbuild program.
Then the most important decreases which more than offset these increases altogether.
Putting them together it leads to a year-on-year reduction in O&amp;M costs.
So firstly further savings associated with the ongoing reduction of our shore-based costs.
Secondly discontinuation of our turnkey drilling services activities with the divestiture of ADTI.
Thirdly ongoing offshore cost reductions initiatives as well as improved shipyard execution.
And finally a reduction in activity associated with rigs service between 2013 and early 2014.
To continue with the guidance we expect our depreciation expense will be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion for 2014.
General and administrative costs are expected to range between $230 million and $250 million.
This is slightly increased from our preliminary guidance as a reflection of fees and costs associated with our ongoing strategic initiatives.
Furthermore we expect our interest expense net of interest income and capitalized interest to be between $460 million and $480 million.
Capitalized interest and interest income are expected to be approximately $130 million and $30 million respectively.
We currently expect the annual effective tax rate for 2014 to be between 18% and 21%.
Next one is CapEx.
Our 2014 capital expenditures guidance is increased by approximately $300 million to about $2.6 billion as compared with our preliminary guidance of $2.3 billion.
The increase primarily reflects the change in timing in shipyard payments on the Deepwater Asgard shifting from late 2013 into early 2014 as well as the two newbuild ultra-deepwater drillships announced yesterday.
As you’ve seen our 2013 CapEx was below guidance partly due to the same refacing issue relating to the Asgard.
The $2.6 billion total CapEx comprises newbuild CapEx of approximately $1.6 billion sustaining CapEx of about $750 million to $800 million and about $150 million of CapEx associated with spare parts for our ongoing efforts to improve operational performance.
These costs related items such as BOP and subsea equipment we expect to have largely completed the buildup of the capital spares pool by the end of 2014.
After 2014 capital cost related to spares pool should decrease considerably.
The sustaining CapEx that I mentioned is a combination of maintenance and upgrades.
A schedule of expected annual payments for our entire newbuild program is now included on our website.
Finally a few updates on the balance sheet.
Consistent with our balanced capital allocation strategy we are progressing well with our plans to reduce our cost long-term debt to a level below $9 billion also our goal of retiring approximately $1 billion in excess of existing repayment obligations by the end of 2014 remains well on track with no more than $210 million remaining.
Scheduled maturities for the remainder of 2014 are modest about $160 million.
These amounts exclude the $460 million payment obligation associated with the partial DOJ settlement on the condo which was already paid earlier this month.
There is no change to our short-term liquidity target which remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion.
We maintain that this is a prudent and responsible targeted short-term level of liquidity until the uncertainties the company currently faces are reduced.
Its liquidity target includes consolidated cash the undrawn $2 billion revolver and the secured credit facility of $900 million.
Our liquidity target continuously excludes the $594 million cash collateral that is on deposit to pay the (inaudible) finance debt.
Considering the debt retirements capital expenditures and the dividend distribution we expect to maintain our liquidity within the target range through 2014.
In the context of our balanced capital allocation strategy our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders is unchanged.
The board of directors recently reiterated its intention to propose a $3 per share dividend to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
This increased level reflects our commitment to pay a sustainable and competitive dividend to our shareholders.
We are also on track with Transocean partners our MLP with a plan to launch an IPO during the third quarter subject to favorable market conditions and final approval by the Transocean Board.
The MLP in conjunction with the monetization of our older lower specification rigs and our margin improvement initiatives significantly increases our financial flexibility and our ability to execute our strategies.
These strategies just to remind include completion of our accelerated debt repayments the distribution of a competitive dividend and value creating investments in new rigs.
Even in the context of the near-term softening of the market we remain confident about our ability to deliver on these strategies.
This concludes my prepared comments.
And now I hand the podium over to Terry to update you on the markets.
Thanks Esa and good morning to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
In 2013 we generated $7.9 billion of contract backlog including securing contracts for one existing newbuild the deepwater Asgard the additional Chevron newbuild drillship the Deepwater Conqueror in a direct negotiation and the continuing growth of our relationship with Shell with a long-term contract on the Polar Pioneer.
Tendering for the first half of 2013 was generally stable and the market provided numerous opportunities to take advantage of high market rates across all classes of rigs.
The second half of 2013 was characterized by delays in awards due to regulatory issues a slowdown in tendering activities across the floater market and customers delaying exploration programs to the end of ’14 and into 2015.
Recently the outlook for 2014 has been variously described as clouded muted stagnant spending slowdown or entering a cyclical pause.
As many of you are aware we have been discussing the gradually deteriorating market trends for the last nine months or so.
And unfortunately the market is behaving as we predicted.
I currently think that this pause looks similar to that observed in 2002 to 2004 a period characterized by the initial decrease in demand with the markets remaining stagnant over a period of 18 to 24 months weak deepwater and midwater markets as we’re already seeing customers delaying programs and an increase in sublet activity.
While these characteristics are certainly similar to the market we see today we expect year-on-year demand to continue to grow assuming as we and our customers do that commodity pricing remains healthy.
The prompt oversupply is allowing our customers to high grade their fleet and absent an urgency to contract refocus on capital allocation.
While there is little question that the near-term market is challenging we have a solid backlog foundation of $27 billion that provides comfort and financial flexibility as we bridge this cyclical pause.
We continue to believe long-term fundamentals remain positive for the future growth of our business as evidenced by the continuing demand from our customers to increase their activity levels another year of promising discoveries expansion into emerging markets and increasing interest in the artic.
With the positive longer-term backdrop we believe the oversupply will gradually diminish as demand increases over the next 18 to 24 months.
Now to the quarter fleet utilization decreased to 75% from 83% largely due to shipyard stays while the average daily revenue increased slightly.
We have experienced another quarter where awards are on hold for outstanding tenders for ultra-deepwater units particularly in West Africa resulting in more pressure on near-term dayrates for available units.
Additionally during the fourth quarter farm-out opportunities increased significantly in the ultra-deepwater midwater floater markets.
During the fourth quarter the contracting activity decreased across the entire floater fleet.
Generally near-term projects on which we are currently bidding indicate a start within the next six months.
However we had seen projects stalled thus far in 2014.
Now to specific markets utilizations for the global ultra-deepwater fleet is currently 98% with two units available including the Sedco Energy which we are actively marketing.
However we believe that she will experience some idle time until the demand picture improves.
Rate expectations for high specification ultra-deepwater units have shifted downwards from the previous quarter to around 500 000 per day to 550 000 per day depending on area of operation and duration of the contract.
I might add that fixtures negotiated earlier this year will exceed this level of pricing.
For the lowest specification ultra-deepwater rigs dayrate expectations are around 450 000 per day to 500 000 per day at least in the shorter term due to the preference of customers for higher spec units with newer equipment that are perceived to offer greater reliability and higher performance capabilities.
We also expect to see dayrates for short-term opportunity reaching to longer-term work to be somewhat lower than this range.
That’s where the older lower spec units are fully capable to drill in most market and we expect that improving market for ultra-deepwater assets will provide ample opportunities in the future.
While ultra-deepwater demand is being driven by subsea here in Africa other emerging markets in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we expect demand in Brazil to increase in the medium-term due to interest in the northern licenses in ‘14 and 2015 development of the (inaudible) project and some bridging opportunities with Petrobras pending the delivery of the Sete rigs.
With two-thirds of the Golden triangle taking an extended period of time for opportunities to mature the contract award fleet utilization and dayrates will be under pressure for prompt availability.
Longer term we expect typical exploration success to lead to significant development drilling as our customers resume their focus on replacement of reserves and increasing production.
We were pleased to return the deepwater discovery to active service this month with Shell in Nigeria and to contract the Cajun Express for work offshore of Cote d'Ivoire keeping both these generation units booked for the most of 2014.
With the oncoming availability in the six months of several of our fifth generation ultra-deepwater fleet we will strategically pursue every opportunity to manage idle time between contracts.
The tendering pace has also slowed for the deepwater market and the actively marketed utilization has dropped to about 90%.
The dayrate range is expected to be around 400 000 per day to 450 000 per day although there have been relatively few new indicative global data dayrate points.
While we are in active discussions with our customers on several deepwater floaters available in 2014 we expect to see some idle time between contracts for these floaters in the near-term.
Midwater and harsh environment tendering activity also declined in the fourth quarter.
However we are actively engaged on several units for extensions in the North Sea and Norway for availability in 2015 and we should be able to report positive news shortly.
While the farm-out activity is increasing in the UK market in the near term we believe the UK and Norwegian North Sea will remain stable.
Outside these harsh environment areas we are seeing idle capacity and rate expectations outside the UK or in the mid to high 200s per day.
Utilization and dayrates for premium jackups remain strong due to demand in Mexico India and Southeast Asia.
We expect demand to remain high for 2014 and anticipate that all the newbuilds will be absorbed by the market.
Rates remain stable for high specification jackups at an 180 000 to 185 000 per day.
In summary the ultra-deepwater market is beginning a corrective cycle in the near-term due to oversupply.
While the pace of fixtures has been decreasing steadily over the last six months we believe demand will rebound as our customers refocused their efforts on 2015 and beyond.
Deepwater market utilization has dropped below 90% today.
We’re seeing incremental idle capacity in the near-term.
So we expect this situation to reverse as the ultra-deepwater market strengthens in the long term.
Midwater activity in the UK and Norway and the premium jackup market remain healthy.
Longer-term our customers will refocus on reserve replacement and production growth and with the solid exploration successes they’ve experienced they have the foundation to do so.
As a result we expect an increase in demand for offshore drilling equipment within the next 18 to 24 months providing ample opportunities for the existing fleet and for our future growth.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thank you.
Bennett we’re now ready to open up the line for Q&amp;A.
(Operator Instructions) We’ll take your first question from Angeline Sedita from UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Angie.
Hello.
Terry you’re right on the money on talking about oversupply nine months ago.
And as you mentioned here we’re seeing a cyclical pause in contracting and tendering.
What gives you the confidence or what are you seeing in the marketplace that gives you the confidence that you believe that it will recover or start to improve in 2015? Well in conversation with our customers Angie they fully expect to get back to more drilling and they’re going to have to do more development drilling.
So as we look over the next couple of years we can see the progress that they’re focused on.
So that mean that gives us confidence they got to replace their reserves they got to increase production.
I think that you also heard Petrobras with their discussion about their forward business plans they got to do the same thing.
And that gives us the confidence in the customer discussions.
And then we also believe that there’s going to be some -- hopefully some near-term opportunity with Petrobras again bridging to the Sete rigs and I think they’re going to take the prices maybe a little bit and take a couple more rigs.
And then as a follow-up to that is there at least of the near-term more risk to utilization and you do have quite a bit of your fleet up for renewal in 2014 I believe 42% of your fleet of which most is ultra-deepwater and deepwater.
If you look at your fleet where do you think the risk is or is the extended periods of idle time or even but potentially a warm stacking or cold stacking? Angie we do fully appreciate the near-term softness and the fact that we’ve got a lion’s share of the availability.
I mean if you look at certainly the ultra-deepwater space alone we've got 12 of the 38 that are out there available.
So we're focused on all the opportunities that are out there.
We’re going to be fighting for work.
Again the issue as Steven said earlier is that we can’t create demand.
And so again we are concerned but like I said we’re going to do everything we can to get these rigs play.
We are in conversation on a couple of the rig that are certainly coming available here for prompt availability so we like those conversation.
We can’t talk a whole lot about them because we’re all listening to each other's earnings call and trying to figure out where the positioning is with our competitors.
So I’ll just say that we are optimistic on a couple of the rigs.
We have had a bit of I hate to say luck because I not believe in luck.
We’ve had some stumbles here recently.
We've been in negotiation on the first four rigs available.
We had LOIs on all four of the rigs which would be to the energy the DD1 the DD2 and the delays occurred approvals not received from certainly some the opportunities in West Africa.
And then most recently with one of the integrated oils here in the Gulf we had a contract negotiated on the DD1 and when it was went to approval it was -- everybody was surprised and informed that they were not going to drill for ’14.
So this is the kind of thing that we are going to see in this market.
But we've been through this before I got a fantastic season marketing team that had been through every downturn since the ’80 so we got the right -- I think we got the right strategy.
We focused on the right programs and again hope to announce some positive news shortly.
We’ll hear next from Ian Macpherson from Simmons.
Hi.
Thanks.
Terry.
Hi Ian.
Hi Steven.
The DD1 and DD2 as of your January report were up in February.
Given I can’t ask you about every rig so in this year but those two given the timing.
Can you provide any more specifics with regard to when those rigs have rolled or when they are rolling and what the immediate prospects are? Well we have -- we actually are discussions on both of them.
We have them in live tenders as we speak.
So we’re just waiting for the tenders to be announced and reviewed so we -- like I said we’re in play there.
I can't really give you specifics of the actual opportunities because we’re in direct discussion and we obviously don't want to tip anybody’s hand there.
So all I can say is that we’re actively putting these rigs forward.
Okay.
One more fleet question.
ODS reported that you bid the KG1 to Petrobras at 440.
Everyone’s been talking about that.
One of your competitors talked about on their conference call.
You haven’t addressed it.
You probably don't want to but will you anyway? Well your right Ian I can’t talk about the specifics because the tenders not over there is a 45-day validity to any tender that we place in Brazil.
I'll talk about the process briefly and the process is that when Petrobras -- there is a waterdepth capability.
Petrobras like to classify they are tendering opportunity based on waterdepth.
So what they’re trying to do is it’s a 2 400 meter tender and they’re trying to understand where the levels of the market are.
We like the opportunity and also we think maybe they take a couple of rigs in this opportunity.
And certainly we would be excited about that.
But look at where we are.
We got -- we’ve got 12 rigs that we’ve got to play.
And this is a nice long-term program and then it's something that we’re certainly interested in and again we’ll just have to wait and see how it plays out.
Okay.
But one thing that you should remember and I don't think that it get discussed very much but in this tendering process we’ve been a single activity rig you get a 6% penalty for a single activity rig.
So let just and that’s about all we can really say about it.
Okay.
I will pass it over.
Thanks Terry.
(Operator Instructions) We move next to Greg Lewis from Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Thank you and good morning.
Good morning.
I just have a couple of questions.
Terry just a follow-up on that the Brazil tender.
The one rig was bid on a tender.
Is that part of a rig package or if that rig were to get win a tender within there be even a re-bidding from other contracts? Is that the way to think about or is this one rig going in and you could just sort of a tie in other rigs on that? I’m sorry I didn't really fully understand the question.
Can you repeat it for me also a little hard to hear you? Yeah.
I guess.
Okay.
Sorry.
I apologize for that.
Terry Bonno That’s okay.
So I guess with the Brazil tender you mentioned that it was part of -- is that part of a bigger rig package or just more just an initial tender where then there will be other potential tenders to follow-up.
This is just when Petrobras put out their rig tendering.
They put out the request for one or more so they got to choose how many rigs that they take.
Okay.
And then just shifting over to the newbuild I guess this question is more for Steven or Esa.
As we think about those rigs the newbuilds.
I guess the first one schedule to deliver in mid 2017.
Is the right way to think about it going-forward as Transocean continues to renew and upgrade its fleet that is sort of the new window where we should expect newbuilds to come in line? I guess what I’m asking is is there the potential for Transocean to go back to the yards and get deliveries for either late ’16 or early ’17 at this point or is that window sort of closed? Well the construction process for rig Greg provided you go to an existing yard with well-developed design it's 36 to 38 months for delivery between the time you signed the contract and time you take delivery of the rig if you include everything that goes into constructing the rig and commissioning the equipment and preparing it to go to work.
So I think the announcement that we issued last night that indicated we’ve signed contracts with deliveries about 38 the first delivery about 38 months from now is I think about what you would expect if you go to yard.
Okay.
And then just really following up on that I mean clearly refinancing term sound very favorable with 95% on delivery.
Is that what other -- and that was in Singapore and that was Jurong.
Is that -- are the Korean yards offering similar type terms to that or is that more specific to that yard in that contract? This was a competitive tender exercise with Korean and Singapore in yards.
And in addition to the design of the ship and the cost of the ship we incorporated into our evaluation the payment terms that we're on offer and certainly in the context of the arrangement with Jurong in Singapore we found that payment terms that Jurong offered to be very attractive.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll move next to Jacob Ng from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Just wondering if you could provide some more color on your rationale for going ahead with the drillship models at Jurong versus one of the most established Korean yards and would you be able to help us with the construction risks as you released this prototype rig design? Yeah so when we went through this exercise Jacob as I indicated with -- we included the Korean yards and the Singaporean yards and we reflected into our valuation the specifications of the ship and the cost of the ship and the payment terms and in our evaluation we reflected in there the fact that this would be only the -- I guess the second or third ship that Jurong are constructing.
So they have an Espadon I design under construction right now and our team visited the yard and reviewed that design with Jurong and toward the facility and got comfortable that transition from the Espadon I design to the Espadon III design is not a huge leap for Jurong.
And we've got comfortable that Jurong could deliver the ship within the context of the proposal they had made to us.
So we were comfortable with the overall offer that Jurong made.
Great thanks.
And this one is for you Esa.
I want to dig a little bit deeper with your O&amp;M guidance.
I was wondering the lower end of your guidance range might be baking in the assumption that additional rigs get stacked on top of the once that if already chosen to stack? You're right.
And that's why there is a range because the activity level is a little bit difficult to predict and market conditions determine that to some extend.
So you take your best estimates and you provide a range around it that's kind of the way it works.
So there is an element of potential movement regarding what happens to several rigs that might be candidates for stacking or might actually end up being idle during the year.
So you're right that's kind of the way it works and it's very difficult to give you a very specific number because of that very reason.
What you know is of course your ability to reduce cost both on the show based side of things as well as offshore.
You know what is already divested or held for sale and you do know what the new build impact is.
And then the uncertainty has to do with some of the other rigs that either are stacked or may become stack during the period.
Got it okay thank you.
I'll turn it over.
And we move next to Judd Bailey from ISI Group.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
A question first I guess for Terry.
Terry you mentioned in your comments that you think the current time period seems similar to what we saw from 2002 to 2004.
My recollection is we kind of had a slow bleed in day rates over a extended period of time during that time frame.
Would you see -- if we don't see demand start to pickup again for another 12 to 18 months do you think a similar scenario could unfold and if not why wouldn't -- how could rate stable if demand has not start to pickup? I mean we are in a supply demand business.
So obviously as demand doesn’t come up it's going to pressure the right down.
I don't know if the behavior of the rates are going to mimic.
I just think that initially when you looked at the different downturns that one to me seem to look the most the similar but I would also say that it also provided the highest increase in rates once you got beyond the downturn.
I mean rights went up from I believe at the time it was 200 000 to 400 000 a day.
And I remember a quite vividly it was such a quick ramp up and as we look out beyond 2016 and delivery that with the newbuild.
And in ‘17 we like the way that the market look to that particular time and it's all about timing in this market Judd as you know.
And we're just going to have -- we're going to fight through it.
We're going to do the best we can.
So let's see how it plays out.
Got it okay understood.
And I just also want to make sure I'm on the same page.
When you discuss high-spec rates ultra-deepwater rates between that 500 and 550 and then I believe you said lower spec between 450 and 500.
You have various degrees of specification in your fleet.
Would that be accurate in assuming that the KG1 would be in high-spec category? Well the KG1 is a single-activity rig and it’s similar to I mean it's Samsung design and it's not on the same design as the rest of our fleet.
And we also we are little concerned about what's going on with pricing in India.
So we felt like this would be a good opportunity the gas pricing in India could be a good opportunity to relocate the rig and so that’s how we looked at the decision to do what we did.
Got it okay.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll move next to Darren Gacicia from Guggenheim Securities.
Hey thank you very much.
So one of the question I guess I wanted to ask is that we’re obviously starting to add some rigs as part of the fleet renewal process.
Do we have any parameters around maybe rigs that the number of rigs are mainly to be stacked or maybe some extended commentary on assets that maybe for sale or I know you mentioned the midwater floaters kind of being possibly -- possibly being attractive for selling as a package from the North Sea.
But how do we equate that how do we kind of look at the net fleet maybe two years from now in terms of what you think still kind of remains and maybe what sort of on the sidelines because it seems like the definition of cold stack for the industry maybe changing? That’s an excellent question Darren.
I guess I would point you to our commentary at the Analyst Day and then what I reiterated today.
We've set ourselves sort of a five-year timeframe over which we expect to transform the fleet.
And we've given indications about what that long-term fleet looks like 50% ultra-deepwater 40% high-spec jackups and 10% harsh environment.
We've been purposefully silent on absolute rig numbers because I'm not sure how important that is.
As long as the fleet migrates towards that kind of an allocation we think we will be appropriately positioned to compete effectively across the asset classes that we're competitive in and regardless of what kind of a cycle we are in.
Just kind of drawing from Terry’s comment so that if the KG1s kind of a single activity and as you know it’s probably technically an ultra-deepwater rig is there any kind of -- there are candidates without giving a number of specificity there are candidates in the ultra-deepwater listing than maybe actually kind of on the divesture list? And maybe part two if you think about kind of what’s in the -- kind of ultra-deepwater deepwater portfolio in terms of what you may want to keep is there a sort of any parameter to know what maybe need to be spent to upgrade some of these rigs maybe to put them in a class of the type of rig you would like to keep? Yeah all really good question Darren and they speak to the heart of the strategic conversations we have on an ongoing basis.
So this is an example of kind of discussions we have.
If you look at our fleet status report and the assets that we characterized today as high-spec floaters within that -- even within that category there are degrees of high-spec.
We've got some rigs that are rather more limited in water depth capability and we've got one or two of those rigs that only carried a 10k stack.
And so that's a very different asset then something like to discover a clear leader that came out full dual activity capable of drilling in 12 000 foot water depths really state-of-the-art vessel and you step forward to the vessels that are under construction today with 20k capability.
And so even within our high-spec asset category there are rigs that we would characterize as divestiture candidates.
I don't want to be too public about which those rigs are because my expectation for Terry his marketing team and for John Stobart’s operations team is that those teams continue to do there absolute best to keep the rigs working.
And they do their absolute level best to keep the rigs in the best possible condition and providing the best possible service to our customers.
And if somebody comes along and makes us an offer that we think matches our valuation expectations than the asset becomes a divestiture rather than a component of Transocean's operating fleet.
It's a nature of the strategic challenge we face with respect to the ongoing transformation of our fleet.
If I could sneak kind of a corollary to that end would you say that the preference on kind of incremental capital employment would be towards new construction or are you open minded to maybe some of the upgrades that would work on some of the other rigs as well as the way to deploy kind of what I would consider kind of sustaining capital if you will? I think we're probably at a starting point anyway.
We're probably indifferent with respect to building versus buying.
The question of upgrading and existing rig is a little bit of a different piece.
You've got -- when you think about undertaking something like that you've got to factor into the economic evaluation the opportunity cost of taking the rig out of service while you undergo the upgrade.
And so it's a bit of higher hurdle to overcome with respect to doing something like that that’s not out of the question.
We've done it in the past.
But I would say our starting our point is we either want to build what we design or we buy something that’s somebody else has build that meets our asset our long-term asset strategy.
At this time we'd like to move to our follow-up from Ian MacPherson from Simmons.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
Esa I had a CapEx question.
You mentioned that you under spend your CapEx guidance last year partly because of the newbuild phasing.
But it seem like it was bigger than that almost half a billion less in your guidance.
Did you have any sort of organic savings? And then secondly you said that your spares CapEx should decline after '14.
What about the sustaining CapEx? With the fleet getting smaller and more moderating does that sustaining CapEx shrink in the out years as well?  Okay let me take the first one first.
So your observation is correct.
The 2013 CapEx was more significantly below the guidance so it's not all explained by the Asgard re-phasing.
There is other elements associated to it one of them being for instance the shipyard expenditure capitalization and the other one being the spares for CapEx.
So there is another re-phasing area are actually some of the expenditure that was supposed to be incurred in 2013 and actually will be incurred in 2014 and that's captured by the existing guidance.
So it’s a little bit more of a mixed bag treatment than what I said but the prime reason has to do with the Asgard re-phasing Okay.
Sustaining CapEx going forward.
Yeah.
Sustaining CapEx going forward it's going to part of the fleet renewal strategy to reduce that element.
So younger the fleet the lower the sustaining CapEx component going forward and the other element that should have an impact is the ongoing emphasis on shipyard execution and the targeted improvements on that side of the business.
So our expectation is that it will get lower but it only gets significantly lower as a result of the fleet high-grading exercise.
Okay.
And then finally the Polar Pioneer was scheduled to finished with Statoil and commence I guess getting ready to go over to Alaska.
We know from Shell that’s not happening this year.
How do we assess that backlog risk at least for '14 if not for the full term of that contract at this point? Hi Ian.
This is Terry.
We're scheduled to conclude our contract with Statoil I think somewhere in like March early April than we will be mobilizing -- we will be mobilizing over to Singapore to get the rate and we do see some upgrade on the rigs and that's what we know today.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And that does end our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Vayda I would like to turn the conference back over to you for any concluding remarks.
Thank you to everyone for your participation today.
We'll be available this afternoon if you have any questions or additional comments.
Thank you very much.
We'll take to you when we report first quarter 2014 results.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q1 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Travis.
Good day and welcome to Transocean’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules are posted on the company’s website at www.deepwater.com.
We’ve also posted supplemental materials that you may find helpful as you update your financial models.
These materials can be found on the company’s website by selecting Financial Reports under the Investor Relations tab.
Joining me this morning’s call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikaheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I’d like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Among others these include future financial performance operating results estimated contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident anticipated results of our cost savings initiatives strategic projects and corporate financing activities capital allocation and strategy new build projects and the prospects for the contract drilling business generally.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it’s inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the company’s most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intends to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
You’ll find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our website at www.deepwater.com under Investor Relations Financial Reports and Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up question.
Thank you very much and I’ll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As you saw from our first quarter press release last night we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $456 million or $1.25 per diluted share.
After adjusting for net unfavorable items of $64 million we delivered adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $520 million or $1.43 per diluted share.
Our revenue efficiency for the first quarter was 95.7% the highest we’ve achieved since early 2008.
Ultra-deepwater revenue efficiency was 96.4% in the first quarter compared with 90% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The central factor contributing to these strong results was reduced downtime related to well control equipment.
During the period about 44% of total downtime was due to unplanned maintenance of the BOP and associated control systems compared with approximately 64% and 60% in the fourth and third quarters of 2013 respectively.
While April’s revenue efficiency was also generally in line with those achieved during the first quarter I reiterate my usual caution that our progress will not necessarily be linear.
However I am very pleased and encouraged with the results our operations teams delivered in the first quarter and I thank them for their tireless efforts.
In addition to strong revenue performance our first quarter results also reflected lower out-of-service days and progress on our ongoing cost control efforts across the company.
Esa will provide a bit more color on these items when he reviews the numbers in a moment.
Recognizing that we are currently in a challenging business environment I think that it is useful to reflect on Transocean’s strategy in the context of our long-term view of the offshore drilling market.
We remain very bullish on the long-term fundamentals available to deepwater business premised on a growing demand for energy and a belief that a majority of this new energy demand will be satisfied by hydrocarbon sourced from deepwater and harsh offshore environments.
This view underpinned our decision in February to commit to construct two ultra-deepwater floaters that are scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018.
Not only are these investments consistent with our long-term asset strategy they also reflect the benefits of the company’s balanced approach to capital allocation which allows us to act opportunistically.
In this instance at a time when we were able to secure extremely attractive construction costs and commercial terms.
Regarding the rest of our new build program the Deepwater Asgard is expected to commence operations later this quarter.
And the Deepwater Invictus is expected to commence operations in late June or very early July.
The remaining five high specification floaters under construction are backed by attractive long-term contracts with key customers Shell and Chevron.
The five premium jack ups under construction remain on track and we are engaged in early discussions with the customer community.
We are very pleased with the strong interest in these units.
Furthermore and representative of the continued execution of our asset strategy earlier this week we disclosed our intent to pursue the creation of Caledonia Offshore Drilling Company comprised of our eight U.K.
North Sea midwater drilling rigs.
The U.K.
North Sea remains an important market for Transocean.
And we are committed to maintaining a presence in the region.
With this in mind we are evaluating various options for the eventual separation of Caledonia.
And we’ll provide updates to the market in the future as we progress this effort.
While we continue to execute our long-term strategy in the near term we are focused on optimizing the utilization of our assets achieving improvement of our margins and enhancing our financial flexibility such that we can continue to create value for our shareholders in the context of a cyclical industry.
Our margin improvement efforts are on track.
And I am pleased with the way our people have responded to the challenge of improving our financial results to eliminate the gap between us and our comparable peers.
We are continuously working to accelerate the implementation of these measures something I believe will be even more visible in future earnings reports.
Our plan to implement an MLP-like yield vehicle also remains on track with an IPO plan for Transocean Partners LLC in the third quarter.
All these efforts are critical to our long-term capital strategy including the sustainability of our dividend which currently represents one of the highest estimated payout ratios in the implied yields in our industry.
Regarding Transocean’s specific uncertainties we are awaiting rulings from various courts and jurisdictions in the Macondo litigation.
First from Judge Barbier regarding phases 1 and 2 of the multidistrict litigation trial.
Second from the Texas Supreme Court on the question of BP’s claim as an additional insured on our excess liability policies.
Third from the U.S.
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals regarding the BP SC settlement as well as other pending motions and appeals.
Additionally Judge Barbier has recently set January 2015 for the phase 3 Clean Water Act penalty portion of the trial.
As a reminder Transocean settled its Clean Water Act penalties as part of the January 2013 agreement with the U.S.
Department of Justice.
We remain confident in our position in the merits of our case and throughout the various court proceedings there have been no new facts relative to Transocean.
And we have not been found guilty of any post-incident misconduct.
Finally in Norway we are awaiting the criminal court’s ruling regarding our tax disputes with the Norwegian authorities.
While we await that ruling we continue to belief that our Norwegian tax returns are materially correct as filed.
And we will dispute any allegation to the contrary.
In conclusion there is no question that the market is challenging right now.
But we have experienced cyclicality in the past.
Transocean will remain disciplined.
Our objective as a management team is to continue to focus on improving those things within our control and to position the company to compete effectively regardless of market conditions.
I believe our first quarter results provide clear evidence the management team’s focus on delivering value.
I would like to remind all of our shareholders of our annual general meeting to be held next week.
We recommend along with proxy advisers ISS and Glass Lewis that shareholders vote for all of the company’s 16 proposals.
If you have not already done so I encourage you to vote your shares.
With that I will hand it over to Esa for a brief review of the quarter’s results.
After which Terry will provide some further perspective on the market.
Esa? Thank you Steven.
And good morning and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
As an opening remark I belief that our first quarter results very clearly demonstrate our commitment as well as our ability to improve those things that are within our control and to deliver a strong performance even in the context of a challenging market.
As I normally do I will discuss the key elements of our results and then comment on our 2014 guidance as necessary.
All results included in the comparison periods have been restated for the sale of ADTI that was completed in January.
As Steven already mentioned for the first quarter of 2014 we reported net income attributable to controlling interest of $456 million or $1.25 per diluted share.
These results included $64 million or $0.18 per share in net unfavorable items that are detailed in our press release.
Excluding these items are adjusted earnings from continuing operations with $520 million or $1.43 per diluted share.
This compares with similarly adjusted earnings of $0.71 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Consolidated revenues from continuing operations were $2.34 billion $87 million increase relative to the fourth quarter.
This increase was primarily due to two reasons namely an increase in revenue efficiency to a very encouraging 95.7% from 91.7%.
It added about $100 million to revenue sequentially.
And an increase in fleet utilization to 78% from 75% which added about $70 million to revenues.
This was mainly the result of decrease in planned [ph] shipyards.
About half of this total increase was offset by the combination of idle time on the Sedco Energy and the Transocean Marianas and fewer days available to operate during the quarter when compared with the prior period.
First quarter operating and maintenance expenses were $1.27 billion about 13% lower than the $1.43 billion incurred in fourth quarter of 2013.
Shipyard maintenance cost decreased by about $110 million primarily due to changes in timing.
Additionally approximately $35 million was directly associated with our cost reduction initiative and approximately $25 million was related to changes in activity.
The remainder of the decrease is the result of several individually smaller cost savings achieved throughout the company.
General and administrative expenses decreased to $57 million from $75 million in the previous quarter.
The decline was mostly due to professional fees and personnel costs incurred in quarter four and not repeated in this quarter.
The first quarter annual effective tax rate from continuing operations which includes adjustments for unusual items was 15.1% compared with 17.7% in the prior quarter.
This decrease was primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings in the quarter and a blend of income that is taxed based on cross revenues versus pre-tax income and rig movements between jurisdictions.
You recall that Transocean’s annual effective tax rate varies based on several factors.
One of which is the overall level of income before income taxes as pre-tax earnings increase our annual effective tax rate generally declines.
Net cash flow generated from operations was $136 million down from $773 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
This decrease was primarily due to the payment of $472 million to the U.S.
government associated with the 2013 Macondo agreement with the Department of Justice and some seasonal increases in working capital.
To date we have paid just over $1 billion of the committed $1.4 billion under the Macondo agreement.
Capital expenditures were $1.1 billion up from $948 million in the prior quarter.
This increase was due primarily to our ongoing new build program including milestone payments on the Deepwater Asgard and the Deepwater Invictus.
I will spend a moment now reviewing our guidance for 2014.
We still expect to achieve fleet revenue efficiency of approximately 94% for 2014.
Our revenue efficiency results for the first four months of 2014 were in excess of this guidance and provide increased confidence in our ability to more consistently deliver improved performance.
However as Steven highlighted our progress may not be linear.
The shipyard activity disclosed in our most recent fleet status report still represents our current best estimate of planned out-of-service time in both 2014 and in 2015.
We continue to expect the annual effective tax rate for 2014 to be between 18% and 21% which also reflects our best estimate of the impact of the proposed U.K.
tax law discussed in our 10Q filing.
Our expectations for depreciation expense general and administrative costs net interest expense and capital expenditures remain within the respective guidance ranges provided in February.
We are encouraged by the results of our cost reduction efforts and continue to pursue opportunities to accelerate incremental savings.
As a result we adjust our estimate for full year 2014 operating and maintenance expense slightly downwards and expect to be between $5.1 billion and $5.3 billion.
You recall that the original range of $5.2 to $5.4 billion already included approximately $200 million of onshore overhead cost savings compared with our 2012 days as well as a portion of our offshore initiatives.
We maintain an intense focus on our entire cost base including our offshore activities and continue to refine our shipyard project execution.
These steps are expected to continue to improve our profitability and cash flow in 2014 and thereafter.
Recognizing that it may still be challenging to see the real impact of our efforts to improve the financial performance of the company I’d like to highlight some achievements in the area of cost management.
You already know about our $300 million cost savings target on our shore-based cost by 2015.
Most of these onshore costs are personnel-related.
Therefore it has been natural to focus our efforts on increasing our onshore efficiency by reducing manpower.
Since late 2012 we have reduced our shore-based organization by about 1 100 positions.
On the offshore side we’re equally focused on ensuring that we have what it takes to operate the rigs safely and with operational integrity in line with our standards and regulatory and customer requirements.
We have had a critical look at the management and global optimization of labor cost extras as well as our permanent rig staffing and have reduced our offshore headcount by about 650 during the last 12 months on a like for like basis.
Additionally we have also reduced the number of onshore and offshore expatriated stuff by about 400 since the beginning of 2013.
Even though we have very significantly reduced headcount our underlying operational performance has improved which is due to the quality of our remaining offshore crews.
As a further example now on the maintenance side we have continued to improve the way we do rider [ph] inspection and repair and expect to generate some $25 million of savings this year in this area compared with 2013.
And a final example that has to do with our shipyard execution which is a major source of expenditure and revenue lots.
Through better organization more focus improved front and loading and more rigorous scope and schedule reviews we have significantly reduced our out-of-service time for 2014 and 2015 shipyards.
Now back to guidance.
With respect to the balance sheet we continue to work towards reducing our growth long-term debt to below $9 billion.
Schedule of debt maturities for the remainder of 2014 are about $85 million.
We are about 80% complete with our goal of earlier retirement of approximately $1 billion in debt by the end of this year.
There’s also no change to our short term liquidity target which remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion.
Yesterday we submitted a confident form S-1 registration statement to the SEC for Transocean Partners LLC or MLP.
And we remain on track to launch the IPO during the third quarter.
As you know the IPO remains subject to favorable market conditions and final approval by the Transocean board.
Steven also mentioned our decision to create a U.K.
North Sea focused drilling company Caledonia Offshore Drilling.
The announcement we’ve made on Monday allows us to efficiently proceed with this effort with the intention of eventually separating a business into an independent entity.
As we have indicated previously we are considering and preparing for all available options including the direct sale to a public or private buyer to spin or a public offering.
Our objective is to maximize the value of these assets in the context of their capability age cash flow backlog and the unique market in which they operate.
We have no additional details to provide at this time but you should expect updates on our progress in the future as appropriate.
To conclude our efforts to reduce our costs improve our operating performance optimize the value of our non-core fleet and the IPO of Transocean Partners all contribute to our financial flexibility enabling us to continue to execute our balanced capital allocation strategy.
Even in the context of the near term market challenges we are confident in our ability to achieve our objectives including our commitment to pay a sustainable competitive dividend to our shareholders.
In the context of modest debt retirements our current forecast of capital expenditures and the proposed $3 per share dividend recommended for approval by shareholders at next week’s AGM we expect to maintain our liquidity well within the target range through 2014.
This finally concludes my comments.
And I now hand over to Terry to provide you with an update on market conditions.
Terry.
Thanks Esa and good day to everyone.
Before we cover specific markets I would like to make a few general comments.
Year-to-date we generated $800 million of contract backlog including securing contracts for the GSF Development Driller II the Paul B.
Loyd Transocean Marianas and Constellation II.
Importantly we are returning the Marianas to active status in the South African market.
We’re entering the Black Sea market with a versatile ultra-deepwater semi and extending our harsh environment presence west of Shetland.
The majority of this backlog was successfully executed within the last 40 days and then it is the result of the intensive work of Transocean’s marketing and global support teams.
And I commend them all for their efforts.
Although overall pace of tendering remains slow in the first quarter we are seeing a few opportunities all of which were anticipated finally coming to the market.
The outlook for 2014 and 2015 remains challenging with respect to oversupply of ultra-deepwater.
However it is encouraging to see some life in the Golden Triangle with a few expected awards in West Africa Brazil and the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Floater opportunities are now pushing into 2015 and ‘16 while customers are competing with us via form outs for the one off well opportunities with their available rigs.
We also continue to see weak deepwater and midwater markets and as in previous oversupply cycles the most capable rigs will compete down potentially displacing lower specification units.
While we believe that the floater market will continue to be difficult through 2015 we expect year-on-year customer demand to continue to grow assuming healthy relatively stable oil and natural gas prices.
The jack up market remains steady with new supply coming to the market currently being absorbed.
Rates in utilization remain healthy and tendering activity is solid.
It is our view that longer term fundamentals remain positive for future growth as global energy demand will continue to increase and our customers will return to the business of drilling offshore wells to replace reserves and increase production volumes to satisfy this demand.
Now to the quarter.
Fleet utilization increased to 78% from 75% and the average daily revenue increased to $413 000 per day from $393 000 per day.
We have experienced another quarter where the outstanding tenders for ultra-deepwater units particularly in West Africa were not awarded.
However we expect that the four contracts will be awarded soon.
Additionally during the first quarter form out activity increase slightly and we have a number of our rigs currently being formed out.
Now the specific markets.
Utilization for the global ultra-deepwater fleet is currently around 98% with three units available including our rigs Sedco Energy and the DD1 which we are actively marketing and hope to have positive news soon.
However we do anticipate more idle time for these units.
Right expectations for ultra-deepwater units have shifted downward from the previous quarter to between $375 000 per day to the low $500 000 per day depending upon specifications area of operation and duration of the contract.
Obviously still fixtures negotiated late last year and earlier this year will exceed this level of pricing.
We also anticipate to see day rates for short term opportunity bridging to longer term work to be somewhat lower than this range.
That said the older lower spec units are fully capable to drill in most markets.
And we expect that an improving market for ultra-deepwater assets will provide ample opportunities in the future.
While ultra-deepwater demand is being driven by Sub-Saharan Africa other emerging markets in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico we expect demand in Brazil to increase in the near to medium term.
In addition the DD2 which was contracted through direct negotiation recently we expect to see more tendering opportunities promptly.
In balance the market remains oversupplied through to 2015 and with the objective of optimizing fleet utilization we will continue to fight for every opportunity that comes with a market for our available fleet.
Longer term we expect anticipated exploration success to lead to significant development drilling as our customers resume their focus on reserve replacement and increasing production.
We were pleased to contract the GSF Development Driller II for almost one year of work in the Black Sea with Lukoil.
We wanted to relocate this rig out the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico due to increasingly demanding well programs and the capabilities offered by new build drilling units and found the right opportunity to do so.
We were competing against a deepwater award unit and the $360 000 per day rate reflects this circumstance.
Also we are pleased to announce that the backlog from the Sedco 710 has now been officially transferred to the Sedco 706 in Brazil.
The types of tendering continues to be slow for the deepwater market and actively marketed utilization has dropped to about 90%.
The day rate range is expected to be around $365 000 per day to $400 000 per day although there have been relatively few new indicative data points.
We secured a contract for the Marianas to return to work as the result of the direct negotiation with PetroSA in South Africa for almost a year’s worth of work at $370 000 per day.
While we are in active discussions with our customers on several deepwater floaters available in 2014 we expect to see some idle time between contracts in the near term.
Midwater and harsh environment tendering activity remains slow in the first quarter.
While there are relatively few data points the current day rate range for harsh environment assets depending on specific capability is between the low $400 000 to $500 000 per day.
We are very happy to announce that we extended the Paul B.
Loyd for two years at $430 000 per day.
The rig will be operating for BP west of Shetland.
Additionally we contracted the Transocean Arctic for almost four months of work in Norway at $519 000 per day.
We are actively engaged in discussions on several units for extensions in the North Sea and Norway for availability in 2015.
Outside this U.K.
harsh environment areas we are seeing idle capacity and midwater rates in the low to mid $200 000 per day.
Utilization and day rates for premium jack ups remains stable due to demand in Mexico India and Southeast Asia.
We expect demands to remain high through 2014 and anticipate that the new builds will be absorbed by the market in the near term.
Rates remain stable for high specification jack ups at $160 000 to $180 000 per day and $180 000 to $200 000 per day in the U.K.
We were pleased to extend the Constellation II for the one year price option at $160 000 a day in Gabon.
In summary the ultra-deepwater market is in a corrective cycle in the near term due to deferred customer demand and an oversupplied market.
While the pace of fixtures and contract direction has been decreasing steadily over the last three quarters we currently believe that demand will increase as our customers refocused our efforts on 2015 and beyond.
While we are seeing the potential for incremental deepwater idle capacity in near term longer term fundamentals will improve with a strengthening ultra-deepwater market.
Midwater activity in the U.K.
and Norway and the premium jack up market remains stable in the near term.
We could also see some headwinds in rates for lower capacity jack ups due to the large number of new build jack up being delivered in 2015.
Longer term our customers will return to drilling for reserve replacement and production growth.
And as a result we expect that the market will transition out of this oversupply cycle.
As this plays out we expect an increase in demand for offshore drilling equipment within the next 12 to 18 months providing ample opportunities of the existing fleet and for future growth.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thanks Terry.
Travis with that we’re ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator instructions) We’ll take our first question today from Ian MacPherson with Simmons.
Hey.
Thank you and congratulations on the good quarter.
Terry the DD2 going to the Black Sea that’s a fairly lengthy mob but I believe one that typically involves some effort with regard to breaking down and rebuilding the derrick on the way through the straits.
Does that day rate reflect a considerable amount of CapEx in mobilization or is that 360 what we would call a clean day rate? Well normally we don’t need to break down our mobilizations.
So I would just say the $360 000 a day is the operating rate.
Okay.
And we have in the past we’ve done lump sum mobs we’ve done per day mobs.
So I think that that’s really all that we need to describe on this particular transaction.
Okay.
My follow up question regarding Caledonia and the asset strategy Steven really with regard to non-core asset sales the Transocean historically has been a consolidator in the industry and some companies are averse to building stacked rigs.
And recently the market fundamentals have had itself and you’ve embraced speculative new builds and deconsolidation which in a way is sort of counterintuitive.
But I think that you could say if you get very good price realizations on non-core asset sales they’re always good right? The shelf drilling sale seems like it was pretty one sided with regard to being favorable to the buyer.
And I think the concern going forward would be how do we extract great shareholder value for Caledonia or whatever non-core floaters are coming down the pipe.
What sort of assurance do you have that you’re going to get accretive separations from these non-core assets going forward? So there’s two things I want the market to remember when we talk about the actions we’re taking.
And one is strategy and the other is value.
So our asset strategy I think we’ve been pretty clear.
Our desire is to reduce the company’s exposure to low spec commoditize assets and increase our exposure to high spec differentiated assets.
And I think with what’s going on in the market right now I think that strategy should be easily understood in terms of the rationale underpinning the strategy.
The execution of the strategy I think as I said in my prepared comments I think we were very opportunistic in agreeing to build the two floaters in Jurong earlier this year.
We’ve got excellent capital costs and very favorable commercial terms and deliveries in 2017 and 2018 which is a favorable time period with respect to the long term fundamentals of this business.
The decision to disclose our intent regarding Caledonia is part and parcel of that strategy.
And that’s where you have to remember the company’s objective regarding valuations.
We know the assets in our fleet better than anybody else.
We know what it cost to operate them we know the amount of capital required to keep them running.
And so the starting point with respect to any transaction whatever form the transaction might take the starting point is what’s the asset worth to us.
And if we can find somebody who’s willing to pay us more than the asset is worth to us that’s an easy deal to do and that’s clearly accretive to shareholder value.
And so that will be the objective or the lens through which we view any potential transaction regarding Caledonia.
What are those rigs to us? If we can’t find somebody who’s willing to pay us what we think those rigs are worth then we’ll continue to operate them.
Very good.
Good answer thanks.
Our next question comes from David Smith with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Hi good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning David.
I’m curious about the cost breakdown provided for the ultra-deepwater fleet particularly the idle cost per day which was about 25% of the in-service cost.
So on those 145 days of idle time how did you get so much cost relief compared to the in-service costs and is this the cost level we should expect for the ultra-deepwater idle costs going forward? Yes it’s Esa Ikaheimonen here.
Recognizing the name of the company you represent there might be some connection there to my Finnishness but let’s leave that aside.
The cost associated to idle time vary a lot and it is very difficult to give you a very comprehensive answer on that right now and right here.
We really need to discuss in a lot more detail as to what drives those costs and so on.
Generally speaking when we talk about our CPR activity and costs associated to that which is the out-of-service cost really depends on the nature of CPR and almost every single one of those are a little bit different.
And the split between what we capitalize and what we expense may vary very considerably.
I know this is not the answer that you expected.
I think if I were you I would look at a little bit longer term averages in terms of how the out-of-service cost have evolved rather than a snapshot that has to do with a single quarter.
And that gives you a better sort of modeling certainty in terms of how things tend to be on a more average basis.
I think further than that I would really suggest that maybe we can have a separate discussion on some of the more specific questions that you may have.
But that’s what I would say at this moment in time.
Absolutely.
I appreciate it.
I guess I would note that on the idle cost for the ultra-deepwater fleet looking longer term in the last couple years you haven’t had a whole lot of idle days.
So separate from the out-of-service costs and looking at – listening to Terry’s commentary about more idle time between contracts it was just a point I was hoping to understand about when a rig has lost contract between jobs are you able to get significant cost relief during the idle time? Because the – Yes I probably little bit actually answered a different question.
Same apply though because there’s different types of idleness.
In between contracts it’s very difficult actually to immediately reduce the cost base because almost by definition you’re getting ready to continue drilling as soon as Terry’s team has got the rig on a new contract and therefore given the fact that the cost base is pretty fixed actually there isn’t an awful lot of change.
Then when you warm stack the rig there’s a step change in terms of what you need in order to keep the rig warm and ready with moderate incremental activity to drill as when the contract comes and then the cold stacked rig is a completely different story again.
So you really have three different types of situations and you got to look at these things on a rig by rig basis to understand what the numbers tell you.
Sure.
But general rule is that idle in between contract and the OpEx level is not widely dissimilar to an operating rig.
Okay.
The longer it’s actually released the more encouraged and incentivized you are obviously to look at ways to reduce manning and lay off people and do that on a temporary basis.
Well I’m guessing you planned on cold stacking the ultra-deepwater rigs but I’ll follow up offline for the rest and I’ll finish with that.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) We’ll take our next question from Harry Mateer with Barclays.
Hi guys.
Just a question can you just talk a little bit about how the recent announcement of the potential separation of Caledonia fits into your balance sheet priorities? There is a good bit of EBITDA from those assets at least at this point so how do you plan to manage rig debt as those assets move into a separate vehicle? Harry it’s a good question.
And it’s good to get questions every once in a while from the debt side of things as well.
Thanks for that.
You know our balance sheet philosophy and you know the importance of the investment grade rating to us so that’s one of our capital allocation priorities and I think we’ve demonstrated that we really mean that.
And it just fits perfectly into cyclical and capital in terms of industry and all that.
And you’ve heard that story.
And as long as Caledonia is part of our consolidated group and our consolidated balance sheet nothing changes.
So we do intend to manage obviously Caledonia in line with the rest of the business at a consolidated level.
The moment it becomes more independent than that then we do consolidate and then so on and so forth.
Of course again we have to recognize the fact that we also stopped consolidating the earnings associated with that business and therefore there is a necessity to use a significant part of the proceeds to reduce our overall indebtedness.
So again in order to manage the leverage and in order to manage the leverage in line with our overall balance sheet philosophy and policy.
So it won’t change anything.
We will have to manage that on a Transocean side before and after independence and before and after potential detail consolidation as we’ve done it so far.
And that includes compensation for the reduced earnings in order to manage the leverage ratio at a level that is comfortably within our range and that is required in order for us to sustain our investment grade rating.
Okay thanks for that answer.
And then my follow-up question I guess more for Terry.
But can you just comment a little bit there’s really been a lot of speculation certainly out there about where rig day rates could bond.
Can you give us a sense for new build ultra-deepwater rates I mean some numbers that have been banding about [ph] out there just some speculation for the lows like $400 000 a day give us a sense for whether that’s something that’s even possible or where do you think the bottom could be? Hi Harry.
Right now it’s really difficult to say.
There’s a lot of bids there in the process that everyone’s competing for and I’d say the last couple ones that have come out we all know that about 18 to 20 ultra-deepwater rigs have actually been bid at those programs.
So you can see that the competition is pretty fierce.
I think that it becomes a real challenge for our competitors when new builds that were built on spec during this particular near term softness I think we have the luxury of having all of ours with back to back contracts that are being delivered during this timeframe.
But I think for them to think about how could they reduce the rates to not return the type of economics that they had certainly planned I think it’s going to be a challenge.
I know that one of our competitors recently said that they did not go to $400 000 a day but I think with the competitions they’re going to have to make those decisions or look at what the alternatives are.
But as far as trying to tell you where our bottom is again we’re in these competitive situations right now and if we start talking about where we think rates will go then I’m afraid that we’d tipping our hand on the type of things that we’re looking at.
But it’s a really good question.
Thanks I appreciate it.
(Operator instructions) We’ll take our next question from Lucas Doll [ph] with ABG.
Thank you.
Two quick questions.
Hi guys.
First one was the – Terry I didn’t catch the length of the contract on the DD2.
Could you repeat that? It’s almost a year’s worth of work.
Almost a year okay.
Yes it’s almost a year.
And then the second one on the work that you are targeting right now and you’re obviously competing with some of the new builds do you see a lot of tenders where fifth generation rigs are being excluded by the technical nature of those tenders or is that the rarity? Well I think that you’re going to see perhaps a little bit more of that in the Gulf of Mexico than you probably see outside of that environment.
So they’re drilling the more challenging deeper wells and they’re needing more hook load capacity.
The fifth generation typically don’t have 2.5 million hook loads.
So that’s the type of situation.
That’s why that we’re looking to relocate some of those fifth generation rigs.
And having said that though there are still opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico that they can drill.
But as far as some of the recent tenders I think there’s one that is it’s either in the market about to come to market that will ask for this 2.5 million hook load.
But again we are actively in discussions on our fifth generation fleet and we do have them in some of the current tenders.
Okay.
And while we are looking for the bottom and awaiting for things to trough wouldn’t you think what needs to happen to sort of find the inflection point is that somebody signing on a bunch of rigs or a chunk of rigs being cold stacked? Would you say it could be the turning point in terms of the supply-demand balance and how it evolves? Luke I think that it’s pretty easy to look to Africa for the amount of demand that’s been out there for quite some time.
If we see those opportunities closing sooner I think that takes some pressure off.
I mean there’s what 15 to 20 opportunities there alone.
And they’re real opportunities.
So it’s not just possibilities.
So I think that that really helps the situation a lot.
We hope that Petrobras will come to the market for more tenders.
And by the way we think they will.
So that will help.
And certainly for some of the older fleet everyone since I’ve been in the industry in the early ‘80s always talked about one day that we will stack these older rigs.
But we’re not seeing a lot of that at this moment.
But certainly attrition will help to the situation too.
Okay great thank you.
It appears there are no further questions in the queue.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference back to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you all very much for your participation at today’s call.
And if you have any follow up questions feel free to give us a call this afternoon.
We’ll be available.
I look forward to chatting with you again when we report our second quarter 2014 earnings.
Have a good day.
That concludes today’s presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Chanel.
Good day to everyone and welcome to Transocean’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules are posted on the Company’s Web site at deepwater.com.
We’ve also posted supplemental materials that you may find helpful as you update your financial models.
These materials can be found on the Company’s Web site by selecting Financial Reports under the Investor Relations tab.
Joining me on this morning’s call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikaheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
Before I turn the call over to Steven I’d like to point out that during the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Among others these include future financial performance operating results estimated contingencies associated with the Macondo well incident anticipated results of our cost savings initiatives strategic projects and corporate financing activities capital allocation and strategy new build projects and the prospects for the contract drilling business in general.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
As you know it is inherently difficult to make projections or other forward-looking statements in a cyclical industry since the risks assumptions and uncertainties involved in these forward-looking statements include the level of crude oil and natural gas prices rig demand the effects and results of litigation assessments and contingencies and operational and other risks which are described in the Company’s most recent Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove incorrect actual results may vary materially from those indicated.
Transocean neither intent to nor assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated.
Also pleased to note that we may use various numerical measures on the call today that are or may be considered to be non-GAAP financial measures under Regulation G.
You’ll find the required supplemental financial disclosure for these measures including the most directly comparable GAAP measure and an associated reconciliation on our Web site at www.deepwater.com under Investor Relations Financial Reports Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you for your attention and I’ll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
As you saw from our second quarter press release last night we reported both net income attributable to controlling interest and adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $587 million or a $1.61 per diluted share.
Revenue efficiency for the second quarter was 95% compared with 95.7% in the first quarter with revenue efficiency for the first half of 2014 of 95.4%.
While we have experienced a few extended downtime events recently we continue to make solid progress in our efforts to improve the operating performance of the Company and I thank the operating and support teams around the world for the results they are delivering.
Second quarter financial results also reflected our continued focus on controlling costs and improving margins and I am similarly pleased with the progress in these areas.
Esa will provide a bit more color on our progress when he reviews the numbers.
While the market remains challenging which I will comment on in a moment our second quarter financial results and the progress we are making in other strategic areas demonstrate the Company’s continued focus on executing our strategy and improving the elements of our business that are within our control.
As further evidence of this we recently closed a highly successful IPO of Transocean Partners.
There was strong investor demand for the offering and the IPO was significantly oversubscribed which is a testament to the quality of the structure the Company and the team.
The implementation of this element of our strategy is consistent with our capital allocation philosophy enhances our financial flexibility and as a result will contribute to our fleet renewal efforts.
To the latter point I am pleased to report that the Deepwater Invictus the most recent addition to our industry leading fleet of high-spec rigs has commenced its three year contract with BHP Billiton in the Gulf of Mexico at a day rate of $595 000 a day.
The Deepwater Asgard is expected to commence its three year contract at $600 000 per day any day now.
As a reminder five of the remaining seven ultra-deepwater newbuilds under construction are backed by attractive long-term contracts with key customers.
Regarding the market there is no question that we are in a challenging business environment right now but this industry has always been cyclical.
Our favorable long-term outlook remains unchanged and we will continue to take the necessary actions to position the Company to weather the current downturn and capitalize fully on the inevitable cyclical recovery.
Regarding the tax litigation which has been ongoing in Norway for some time now I was very pleased with the full acquittal granted in criminal trial in early July.
While the State has appealed portions of the Court’s ruling we remain confident that our tax returns are materially correct as filed and we will continue to refute any allegations to contrary.
At the same time I was disappointed with the Norwegian Civil Court’s ruling in the Danish dividend case although I would point out that the Court waived the interest in penalties which the state was seeking.
We will exercise our appeal rights in this case and will continue to pursue full exoneration for our actions.
Regarding the Macondo litigation I have no updates.
We remain confident in the merits of our case and await Judge Barbier's rulings regarding phase 1 and 2 of the MDL proceedings.
Lastly I am sure you are aware of our extraordinary General Meeting is scheduled for September 22.
I urge you to vote your shares in favor of the Company’s proposals.
I am pleased about the prospect of adding Pete Miller to our Board.
He is well known and respected in the industry and likely well known to many of you and I am confident he will bring to our Board room an excellent understanding of our business with a long track record of success.
Additionally we are taking this opportunity to again request that shareholders vote for reduction in the maximum number of directors to 11 from 14.
This actions is both shareholder friendly and good corporate governance practice.
With that I will turn it over to Esa to go over with the numbers with you.
Esa? Thank you Steven.
And good morning and good afternoon to everyone on the call.
As I normally do I’ll discuss the key elements of our results and then I comment on our 2014 guidance.
Our second quarter results again demonstrate our ability to improve things that are within our control (audio gap) a strong operation and financial performance even in the context of a challenging market.
As Steven already mentioned for the second quarter of 2014 we reported both net income attributable to controlling interest and adjusted earnings from continuing operations of $587 million or $1.61 per diluted share.
This compared to similarly adjusted earnings of $1.43 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2014.
Consolidated revenues from continuing operations were $2.33 billion compared with $2.34 for the first quarter.
We had another outstanding quarter with the total fleet revenue efficiency at 95% slightly lower than the 95.7% achieved in the first quarter.
Fleet utilization of 78% was unchanged.
Second quarter operating and maintenance expenses decrease $56 million sequentially to $1.21 billion.
This decline in O&amp;M is mainly associated with lower costs incurred on rigs undergoing shipyard maintenance survey and repair projects.
General and administrative expenses increased by $6 million to $63 million.
The sequential increase was due to project related legal and professional fees and severance costs associated with the Company’s organizational efficiency initiative.
Second quarter annual effective tax rate from continuing operations was 12.6% compared with 58.1% in the prior quarter.
This decrease was a result of idle time on certain rigs in high-tax jurisdictions as well as the movement of rigs between jurisdictions.
Net cash flow from operations increased $500 million from the first quarter to $636 million.
During the first quarter we paid $472 million to the U.S.
government related to the Macondo agreement with the Department of Justice in 2013.
Capital expenditures were $351 million down from $1.1 billion in the prior quarter due primarily to the timing of payments on our ongoing legal program.
I will spend a moment now reviewing our guidance for 2014 which is mostly unchanged.
We still expect to achieve fleet revenue efficiency of approximately 94% for 2014.
Our revenue efficiency results for the first seven months of 2014 were in excess of this guidance.
However as Steven highlighted our progress may not be linear and we have experienced somewhat increased downtime during the early part of the ongoing third quarter.
There is no change in our O&amp;M guidance.
We continue to reduce our operating expenses and still expect full year 2014 operating a maintenance expenses to be between $5.1 billion and $5.3 billion.
The CPR activity disclosed in our July fleet status report represents our current best estimate of plant of service time.
As noted in the report we expect the total number of out-of-service base to be higher in the third quarter as compared to the second quarter.
The periodic increase is mostly due to contract preparation associated with certain drilling contracts signed during the year.
Please note note that even though we will have a higher shipyard activity than originally planned we have still maintained our full year O&amp;M cost guidance.
Regarding the second half of 2014 we anticipate a substantial increase in the total O&amp;M expenses in the third quarter as compared with second quarter levels with the fourth quarter return into levels seen in the first and the second quarters.
We are very encouraged by the results of our cost reduction efforts and to-date we have achieved most of our 2014 onshore target of $200 million as measured against our 2012 costs base.
Most of these savings are related to onshore personal costs.
We’re equally focused on performance in delivery further improved financial results at the rig level.
We will continuously unsure that we have what it takes to operate safely and with operational integrity in line with our standards and regulatory and customer requirements while constantly challenging our offshore cost structure.
As we have emphasized in the past this steps are expected to further improve our profitability and cash flow in 2014 and thereafter.
We now expect net interest expense to be slightly lower than the previous guidance ranging between $450 million and $470 million with capitalized interest expected to be about $125 million and net income about $40 million I am sorry interest income about $40 million.
The annual effective tax rate for 2014 is now expected to be between 14% and 17% down from our previous guidance of 18% to 21%.
The updated guidance reflects for results for the quarter and an updated forecast for each of our rigs.
As a reminder it also fully accounts for the changes associated with the new UK tax law signed in July but retroactive already from April 2014.
This new law and its impact are discussed in more detail in our 10-Q.
Our expectations for depreciation expense G&amp;A costs and capital expenditures remain within the respective guidance ranges provided in May.
Regarding the balance sheet we continue to work towards reducing our gross long-term debt to below $9 billion.
Scheduled debt maturities for the remainder of 2014 are about $80 million.
We expect to complete our $1 billion accelerated debt retirement program in the fourth quarter with a final payment of about $210 million.
There is no change to our liquidity target which remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion.
Last Thursday ahead of our plans we completed a very successful initial public offering of Transocean Partners contributing net proceeds of approximately $420 million to Transocean.
It is worth noting that the IPO was about 14 times oversubscribed priced well above the range and the stocks started trading very encouragingly in the aftermarket.
As a reminder this stake will provides Transocean with financial flexibility and supports our capital allocation strategy including renewing the fleet.
And reiterating Steven’s earlier comments I would also like to add my thanks to our world-class team for their efforts in this project.
Regarding Caledonia Offshore Drilling the UK North Sea focused drilling company announced during the quarter we have no additional updates at this time.
We expect to establish this new entity during the second half of 2014 and at an appropriate time separate it fully from Transocean.
We have maintained full flexibility to pursue all options including the potential direct sale to public or private buyer a spin or a public offering.
Our objective is simply to maximize the value of these assets in the context of their capability cash flow backlog and the unique market in which they operate.
You should expect updates on our progress in the future as appropriate.
To conclude our efforts to reduce our costs improve our operating performance optimize the value of our non-core fleet and the IPO of Transocean Partners all contribute to our financial flexibility enabling us to continue to execute our balanced capital allocation strategy.
Even in the context of the market challenges we are confident in our ability to achieve these objectives including our commitment to pay a competitive sustainable dividend to our shareholders.
This finally concludes my comments and I will now handover to Terry to provide you with an update on market conditions.
Terry?  Thanks Esa and good day to everyone.
Year-to-date we generated $1.4 billion of contract backlog including securing contracts for the KG1 Jack Bates and the Celtic Sea.
In addition we recently executed a rig swap agreement between the Sedco Energy and GSF Rig 135.
We should be announcing more positive news on the 135 shortly.
We increased our contract backlog by 75% over the first quarter demonstrating the Company’s solid position in this very challenging market.
Since our last call the ultra-deepwater market outlook is largely unchanged.
Tendering remains slow during the second quarter and while we see a few opportunities on the horizon in the Golden Triangle India and Mexico continuing delays in customer programs and a growing sublet market continue to put pressure on utilization.
Thus we will continue to see some idle time on rigs and increasing competition on the few available tenders with the influx of more supply into the market in the near term.
Of note we are returning an idle fifth generation rig Sedco Energy to active status in the Congo and relocating the KG1 from India to Brazil.
Deepwater and mid-water markets remain weak but largely unchanged and at in previous oversupply cycles most capable rigs will compete down and displace lower specification units.
We expect this displacement will result in some units being permanently retired as continued investment in this fleet may not yield the necessary economic returns over the remaining life of the asset.
This is an industry-wide issue and this will play an important role in the future supply and demand picture.
The premium jackup market remain steady with regards to rates utilization and tendering however the large influx of uncontracted newbuilds will challenge the less capable units and we are likely to see pricing pressure in the future from the increasing competition.
Longer term we remain positive on the fundamentals of growth and we will strategically pursue every opportunity for the utilization of our assets in order to be in position to take advantage of an improving market.
Now to the quarter utilization for the global ultra-deepwater fleet is currently around 97% with two existing and one newbuild rig available including our rigs Discoverer Spirit and the GSF Development Driller 1 which we are actively marketing and hope to have positive news soon.
During the quarter we were awarded a contract in Brazil for the KG1 for three years at $440 000 per day and we will be relocating the rig from India later this year.
We have a long history in Brazil and an excellent relationship with Petrobras and we view Brazil as a long-term growth market.
Thus we were excited to receive one of the two awards resulting from this exercise.
In addition we recently contracted to swap 200 days of backlog from the GSF Rig 135 to return this Sedco Energy to the active fleet in the Congo.
The pace of tendering continues to be slow for the deepwater market.
And marketed utilization has dropped below 90%.
In July we signed a contract to one well as a one well priced option and in Angola for GSF Celtic Sea at the rate of 337 $500 000 per day.
We received positive news on the Jack bates for the new contract in Australia for two wells approximately 140 day at $420 000 per day.
Mid-water and harsh environment tendering activity also remains slow in the second quarter.
In Norway the recent cancellations and suspension with competitor contract coupled with a robust sublet markets are leading us evaluate opportunities outside of Norway for our Norwegian rigs available in 2015.
Outside of North Sea we are seeing some long-term demand coming to the market in India with an expected tendering opportunity for four mid-water semis.
Utilization and day rates for premium jackups remain stable due to demand in Angola Mexico India and Southeast Asia.
We expect demands to remain high through 2014 and anticipate that the uncontracted new builds will be absorbed by the market through 2014.
In the medium term we expect that the influx of supply of premium assets will put pressure on standard rig utilization and pricing to which we had no exposure.
Longer term we expect demand for energy to be strong and our customer will pursue reserve replacement and production growth.
As a result we expect that the oversupplied market will improve to a more favorable balance.
As this plays out our backlog of 25 billion provide us with the flexibility to weather the current challenges and position ourselves for the additional increase in demand for off shore drilling equipment providing opportunities for our existing fleet and for future growth.
This concludes my overview of the market.
So I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thanks Terry.
With that Chanel we’re ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
(Operator instructions) And we will take our first question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Steven this is a tough question but I would really appreciate a thoughtful answer to it.
As the CEO of Transocean and if you had to choose between an investment grade rating and maintaining your current dividend what do you think is more important to you and the Board? Well you know by starting out by asking a tough question and asking for thoughtful response you’ve set me up.
Fortunately Angie the decision is never that simple.
It’s never binary trade off and so we’ve talked over the last several quarters about the various levers that I think the Company has to pull before we start thinking about pulling the dividend lever.
So we will continue evaluate the Company’s ongoing investment in new build drilling rigs.
We’ll evaluate the Company’s investment in our existing fleet.
We will evaluate the strength and quality of our balance sheet and the opportunities is available to us.
And we’ll put all of that in the context of our outlook for the business and we’ll ask the board to engage in a thoughtful review over the coming months and in anticipation of the May 2015 Annual General Meeting make a decision on the dividend.
But as both I and Esa commented in our remarks we are committed to maintaining a competitive and sustainable dividend.
So that’s very important to management and the Board.
Okay.
Fair enough.
So I'll turn it to Terry.
Terry obviously you outlined what we're seeing in the market today and we're seeing limited tenders and still two years of heavy supply coming into the floater market.
I know it's early.
But just in theory and what you're seeing today in the market when do you think we would have the first opportunity of having a truly balanced market for floaters? Do you think it is in 2016 after the floater deliveries are behind us or potentially even later and when you really need to see the IOCs come back? Angie that’s a really good question and to give you a really crisp answer I think it depends on a lot of the demand that we are seeing forward in the future to get into the market quickly.
And that’s going to predicate when this turnaround occurs.
There’s a lot of opportunity as we talked about in numerous calls in West Africa and we’re starting to see a bit more of that being executed which we find is encouraging but there’s a lot more opportunities out there that we need to come to the market so that we can see in front of us when that turn is going to happen.
Also we believe that we’re going to see some incremental demand coming from Brazil and then we also like the news that we've recently see in India with then coming with four tenders and a deepwater tender.
So the conversations are percolating but I think it’s a bit early to say put your line in the sand and say this is when it's going to happen.
But it’s going to happen.
So that’s one thing that we know is going to happen.
So we like some of the things that we are seeing but again it's a let’s wait and see how this plays out.
And then I guess as a follow-up to that what level of tenders do you think you really need to see to have confidence that the IOCs are coming back?  I think there is a lot of people are out negotiating right now on their programs.
We are in active negotiations too.
It’s just taking time for these contracts to conclude so I think we're going to have some positive news there and in the customer base you will see the folks that are really focused on getting back to drilling.
So I think that we certainly can’t talk about it now because everyone is out there trying to undercut each other and step into the shoes of where we are today but we are encouraged by that.
So I think it’s a unit to wait and see how they are behaving but certainly they are improving their cash flows now.
So let’s hope that continuing good news and they get back to the market.
And if I could ask one more is Steven on the Caledonia more to come but on the 21 mid-water floaters that you have up for sale given current market conditions which are certainly likely to persist in the mid-water [Technical Difficulty] Next question please Chanel?  Sure.
We will go next to Greg Lewis with Credit Suisse.
So I was reading in the 10-Q this morning and it was out yesterday in upstream about Petrobras and potential withholding taxes and if you could just sort of explain a little bit about what that is? As I read in the note it looks like it’s just pertaining to 2008 and 2009 and it doesn’t look like it is more like a forward way to -- definitely it’s impacting more recent on future revenue streams.
If you could just provide a little bit of color on what’s going on with that and I mean clearly you are denying or are going to fight this vehemently but just a little bit of color around that and what this actually means if anything? Little bit difficult to comment too specifically Greg because this is bit of an evolving situation but I will say that I think the Company has very strong contractual provisions in place.
So Terry talked about the strong relationship with Petrobras which I will reiterate but I will say we will resist the efforts to retroactively impose additional cost on us when I think our contract is pretty clear.
Okay but it’s just 2008 and 2009 in the report.
That’s the starting point.
And then just another question I believe it was mentioned in the past that ideally Transocean wants to have a cash balance of about $1.5 billion sort of to fund the fleet working capital.
Is there maneuverability to change that or is that sort of a hard and fast number where that's sort of the cash on the balance sheet that Transocean requires? As I guess that’s for you Esa.
Thanks Greg.
It’s probably for me indeed.
That’s not anything other than a comfortable level of cash on balance sheet that allows us to operate the Company in different parts of the world without any short-term funding needs.
There is nothing more to it.
It’s flexible.
It can be less than that.
It’s just a comfortable level.
And I imagine that’s a function of the fleet.
So depending on the size of the fleet there is maneuverability around that?  It’s partially a scale it’s partially an issue regarding where we operate and how much trapped cash we've got regarding different tax structures and different restrictions on dividend distribution and so on.
But generally speaking it’s a scale issue.
If the scale goes up you would expect that to go up a little bit.
If the company becomes smaller for whatever reason at least in theory that would reduce a little.
But $1.5 billion is a very comfortable level of cash and balance sheet and as I said there is flexibility there.
(Operator Instructions).
We will go next to Ian MacPherson with Simmons.
Terry I guess you might have said this but presumably the 135 goes to cold stack here.
Can you update us on any other additional stackings that are more likely now than what you were contemplating last quarter or is that the only one?  Ian I actually said in the prepared notes that we hope to have positive news on the 135 very soon.
So the rig swap less the prospect for the 135 is additive got it.
Esa based on the first half and your indication that the fourth quarter cost should look pretty similar to Q1 and Q2 we would probably prefer the lower end the lower half perhaps of your full year cost guidance.
Are you comfortable with that?  Ian that’s a cunning question I would definitely actually prefer a number below the range but reality is that the rigs is at good range and it actually accommodates for what we see coming our way during the second half of the year.
And quite importantly as I try to point out we do have some incremental contract prep work and other things that actually are adding to our expenses as opposed to our original guidance but as you heard me say we reconfirm our original guidance and we will absorb through our cost management efforts and any incremental pressure we’ve got regarding those additional activities.
So yes I'm squarely with you on that one.
Definitely lower is better.
But we manage this overtime and as you’ve heard from us many times we have to maintain safe operations and operational integrity whilst we do this and therefore we’ve given ourselves some I think most people have appreciated that time over a period of a couple of years to really restructure our cost base and that’s work in progress still and you’ll hear more towards the end of the year as well as during next year.
And we will go next to Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt</strong> Just had a question Terry on perhaps on your outlook with regard to the deepwater Gulf of Mexico I think I heard you say in the prepared remarks it felt like there were some opportunities for the development driller one.
But as you think about a few rigs that you have there that are rolling off in coming months coming quarters do you like the odds of those rigs staying in the gulf? Or how do you think about the prospects for those three rigs in the gulf in 2015? Well Byron I think generally we’re -- again in discussions with our Gulf of Mexico customers and I think you’re going to see a couple of one off exploration wells that are going to come to the market and we’re certainly going to be poised if I can manage with that with the fleet that we have currently in the Gulf of Mexico but we’re bidding our fleet globally.
So any opportunity we have to put these rigs to work and keep our utilization high is what we’re going to do.
So that would include relocating these rigs out of the Gulf of Mexico.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay.
And then just an unrelated follow-up and looking at the 2015 planned out-of-service days very little planned for the mid-water fleet.
Assuming that relative to prior years and I’m assuming that is just a function of looking at that class of your fleet and not necessarily being a part of the long-term core portfolio is that a reasonable way to think about it? I’m not sure that it necessarily reflects the fact that we don’t consider those rigs to be part of our core long term portfolio.
The more granular you get with respect to the fleet the more lumpy the out of service time becomes.
And so particular with respect to our North Sea mid-water rigs we’re coming out of the couple of years of intense shipyard activity on those rigs and the next couple of year don’t have a lot of shipyard activity on the North Sea mid-water float to fleet.
So if you extrapolate that to the entirety of the mid-water fleet you do see a little bit of lumpiness that’s just a normal outcome of managing rigs over the course of a five year inspection cycle.
And we will go next to David Smith with Heikkinen Advisors.
Terry on prior conference calls you provided day rate ranges around the marketing outlook.
I didn't catch any commentary around rate levels during your remarks and I was just wondering if those thoughts might be available? David sorry about that.
The rate ranges really hadn’t changed much since we last reported and we really haven’t seen a lot of fixtures.
But we had previously reported and certainly in our last presentations on the road I think the ultra-deepwater ranges reported were 375 to 500 deepwater was around mid-300s to 400s mid-water was I think around mid-300s to 400s in the harsh environment and below 200 outside of U.K.
Totally appreciate it.
And just to confirm with the backlog transferred from the GSF rig 135 to the Sedco energy would that be kept at the same day rate that the 135 was at I think $365 000? Well it’s going to be dependent on if it’s in DP mode or if it’s in more -- I mean shallow-water/deepwater mode.
So the rate is going to be around the same.
But if we do more deepwater work the rate will increase I think about $10 000 a day.
Good to offset the costs with the fuel? Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And the real quick follow-up I know it is an evolving situation just wanted to ask if you have a strong view on regarding the potential Petrobras back tax assessments and their attempt to pass those on.
I wanted to ask if you have a strong view on which court would have jurisdiction if that was pursued and whether that would be Brazil or US? It’s a little bit too early to start thinking about litigation in that context.
We will go next to Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
So obviously you've talked repeatedly about continuing to high grade the fleet and moving away from the mid-water market but for the time being you do have those assets and continue to manage them especially in the context of thinking about potentially monetizing them or selling them if you do see some of the pressure that you talked about in terms of higher spec grade competing down.
How you think about those assets in terms of your ability your willingness to continue work from that kind of marginal profitability if it comes to that.
In the past you might have stacked that kind of asset? Would you keep working there to maintain value for it and just how you think about those assets to the extent you still have them and as we see this market potentially grind lower in the short term? Probably a really unsatisfactory answer for you Mike but it all depends.
We will evaluate it on an asset by asset basis and when think we have an asset that is likely to survive this current downturn and be a productive and profitable asset coming out we are likely to try and maintain the utilization on that rig.
If on the other hand we think the asset truly is approaching the end of its life we're likely to take a different decision and if the economics don’t support continued operation of the asset in the near term then we will make a decision to either try and scrap the asset ourselves or attract some kind of a third-party offer that would allow us to reduce our exposure to that kind of an asset.
So it all just depends on our long-term view of the asset and the fundamental thesis that this is a cyclical business and we will see some cyclical recovery in the future.
We will go next to David Batty with Plateau Bank.
It’s related to the cost side and it’s obvious that the costs have come down significantly since the level we saw in 2013 quite sharply actually and I was wondering I think this for you Esa if you could share some highlights or just your thinking around how the 2015 cost side is going to look how much more potential there is on the cost cutting strategy? Thanks.
Thanks for the question.
First of all you can see and thanks for by the way recognizing that we have done a lot of work in this area and it’s been quite successful.
Beyond what we have achieved this year we basically continue doing more of the same.
So as we have guided in the past or outlined in the past we should have about two-thirds completed with our own short cost initiative in 2014.
You remember the original number.
The total number was minimum $300 million.
This year two-thirds of that will be delivered.
So mathematically you've got another 100 million to go in 2015.
We are working really hard on our offshore cost structure as well as you heard from the prepared remarks.
There is more opportunity there and particularly the optimization of our shipyard execution provides further improvement opportunities going forward.
So there is more to come but we haven’t guided for 2015 and that will take another few months before we do so.
But it definitely won’t stop in 2014 it will continue.
As a matter of fact actually our optimization efforts and opportunities to further improve our cost structure will carry us beyond 2015 as well.
It won’t stop there either.
That’s really all I can say in the absence of official guidance on the matter.
And we will go next to Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to circle back to Andy’s first question about the investment grade rating.
You guys have said for a long time that it’s important to you to be IG in-part because NOC customers require it.
But number of your competitors like Seadrill are not IG rated or not rated at all and deal with the same customer.
So I was just wondering has your thinking on this changed at all? I would tell Jason that as a starting point we believe that financial flexibility in a cyclical industry is a competitive advantage and part of our approach to maintaining and enhancing our financial flexibility is represented by having a strong balance sheet.
And we have taken other actions to support and enhance that as well.
The recent IPO of Transocean Partners is an integral component of enhancing our financial flexibility.
So we still believe that as a fundamental premise and financial flexibility is reflected in the strength of our balance sheet and the strength of our balance sheet is reflected in our investment grade credit rating.
And then one more maybe this is for Terry.
You had alluded in your comments to some deepwater development sleeping to the right a bit and I am just curious as to what you think is driving this because crude price as we know have been relatively stable.
So what are you hearing on that front?  I think it’s been a lot of public commentary and certainly some of the discussions we have had with our customers is that they just got to prepare their balance sheet and focus on capital allocation and return to shareholders.
So they are taking a pause and its timely pause with the supply coming into the market.
So they are going to be able to reduce their cost on their development programs later on.
But we think that that comes -- that that the demand is going to come back to the market but that’s what we know they are focused on and we’re seeing it.
Next question Chanel.
And we will go next to Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
I wanted to ask with regard to the cost improvement program.
I understand that a large part of its a structural issue with regard to centralizing decision making maybe to a greater degree where formerly things were a bit more regionally controlled if you will.
When I think about that with regard to Caledonia considering I think kind of part of the way that may look may include some of the onshore facilities in Aberdeen and the rest.
How do we want to think about kind of the part of the cost structure that maybe goes with the rigs with the Caledonia offering? Can you give us any color on maybe how that looks so we can think of things going forward? Well Darren I tell you that our approach to thinking about and structuring and separating Caledonia will be heavily influenced by what we learned as a result to the shelf transaction.
So I think we were pretty successful in establishing the entity and assisting the folks that shelf drilling with creating the kind of infrastructure they needed to be able support fleet the way they want it to operate.
We’ll do the same thing with the Caledonia management team.
We feel like that’s an extremely strong business today.
And so that business is supported by a lot of infrastructure and back office support services there in Aberdeen.
And we -- it will be a bit of a process to go through with the Caledonia management team to identify what they need in order to operate the rigs according to their operating philosophy.
So it’s a bit difficult to tell you exactly what that’s going to look like until we get fully engaged and embedded in that process with the Caledonia management team.
Understood.
Second for Terry I'm trying to get a sense here thinking about your comments over the last several quarters where you have been early and right on the pause or kind of push out of activity.
Are you starting to get -- relative to kind of some of the commentary I've heard on recent calls; Are you starting to get more optimistic or are you kind of feelings about the same? It seems like in your comments there are a couple of green shoots relative to maybe how you felt before.
I don't want to put words in your mouth but I just wanted to ask you directly so I fully understood sort of the nature of your comments.
Thanks Darren.
I think we have a consistent view like nothing has really dramatically changed as far as how we call the market and how we see it today.
So I can’t say that -- I like your description of green shoots though I’ll probably use that again.
But we are encouraged I would say because in this very challenged market we’re still able to put our rigs at work and I think that speaks certainly to our operational folks in the field and all the efforts are go into making sure our customers are satisfied.
So I think that speaks for itself and we’re going to continue to fight for the green shoots but again our view of the market really hasn’t changed.
And we’ll go next to Harry Mateer with Barclays.
My first question Esa can you give us a sense for how you think working capital is going to flow in the second half of the year given that it consumed over $1 billion of cash in the first two quarters? Yes.
We don’t necessarily guide on we don’t normally guide on working capital but end of second quarter working capital level was high about mid should be and it will be and that’s because of the few things that we actually know quite well and for instance payables was exceptionally high as a result of certain movement since beginning of the year particularly on the shipyard side of things.
So you should expect that number to go up actually during the coming months.
And receivables there’s nothing not an awful up their and then on the inventory side we’ve actually continuously added some critical spaces to our inventory worldwide and that’s something that we continue to optimize towards the end of the year.
Okay.
And then I don't want to beat a dead horse on the dividend or the credit ratings but I'm sure you guys are aware of the concerns out there and some of these estimates that have been put out there in terms of fairly low EBITDA numbers out over the next couple of years.
So I'm just trying to get a sense for -- given that maybe a firmer comment on the credit rating priority.
I think the first couple of answers were mixed and I totally understand the sensitivity around the dividend.
But just give us a sense for not just I guess to the dividend but how do you consider the potential real tangible cost of falling to high yield given your debt maturity schedule given the fact that you do have coupon steps in some of the bonds.
How do you weigh that against all the options the Company can potentially pursue in the next couple of years? Yes.
It’s Esa here.
I’ll give Steven a pause because he kind of tried to address this issues already during the previous discussion but --so the immediate impact if we lose our investment grade rating isn’t all that dramatic.
It adds a little bit of cost story existing debt profile.
We’ve got billions of dollars in bonds out there.
So it would obviously add a little but it’s not a key driver access to capital over a longer period of time strong balance sheet allowing us to benefit from opportunities that is cyclical industry and brings along more important than that.
And of course the current market conditions will have an impact on our operating cash flow but at the same time we are adding financial flexibility we're improving our operations and we believe that the balance capital allocation that we have outlined and we are committed to we can actually deliver on it.
Okay and then last.
You mentioned a little bit more debt reduction in the fourth quarter are there any other ways to perhaps accelerate the debt reduction beyond what you have identified so far in the next couple of quarters?  It will be fairly costly if we further accelerate that.
So that’s why we have chosen actually this method of optimizing our balance sheet.
So we committed to this $1 billion accelerated reduction.
It will be completed by the year end in line with our earlier communication and commitment and thereafter we will continue to reduce our debt level in line with debt maturities as and when they occur and current mathematics will take us to the level around $9 billion or below by the end of next year or beginning the year thereafter.
So we don’t have to do anything magical to deliver on what we have promised to do and the commitment is still there to just continue doing that and delivering it.
We will go next to Shyam Kumar with TT International.
Can I just ask in terms of the ultra-deepwater market and do you think there is scope for pricing to bifurcate between the newbuilds versus the old builds i.e.
will newbuilds hold pricing better vis-à-vis older rigs please?  We're currently seeing in the market that there is a bifurcation occurring between higher spec equipment and lower spec equipment.
This is nothing really new in how we have experienced the market over historical period.
So there is a bifurcation.
When there is an oversupply that bifurcation becomes more pronounced so that’s really where we are today in the market.
So there is definitely is a bifurcation and that will continue until we get back to a market balance in the future.
(Operator Instructions).
We will go next to Dominick Frantius with Dubrose.
Just a follow-up question and I understand it’s an evolving issue around the Petrobras tax issue but you said in 2008 ‘09 is just the beginning and put a number to it $128 million.
Now the reports today suggest that it could go back in five years.
Could you give us some estimates if that really was to be extended to five years what the impact would be? And then just a follow-up to Petrobras.
And then could I ask I ask you about the cash flow profile going forward? You burned about $1.1 billion in cash in the first half you benefited from lower tax and lower OpEx and a higher contract coverage.
So if this rate continues then within a year’s time you have no cash on the balance sheet left given that going forward you will pay higher OpEx and higher tax and lower contract coverage.
So how do you think about the cash flow profile of the group in this environment? And then the last question is the risk of asset impairments.
We have seen one of your competitor taking quite a sizable impairment on their assets.
So how do the current market rates and compare to your assessment and expectations when you do your NAV for the different rigs you employ? Are they still above what you expect rates to be or are we getting to levels where asset impairments become more likely? Thank you.
Dominic you made this bit of a challenge by asking a three part question.
I will take part one because I think it’s the easiest and then Esa can respond a part two and part three.
What we have disclosed in our Q with respect to the Brazil tax issue is what we have disclosed and the way I have answered the questions this morning is the way I am going to answer the questions.
It’s an evolving situation.
We think we have excellent contractual provisions.
The amount we have disclosed relates to 2008 and ‘09 because those are the only years that have been assessed against Petrobras.
As this situation develops we will continue to keep the market informed and that’s really all we are going to say about at this point.
Dominic its Esa Ikaheimonen here.
The challenging question particularly the second one the cash profile one because it really would require a different forum and different discussion maybe it goes pretty close to modeling and a little bit beyond what we have guided the market with.
But as I said earlier the market is challenging and that obviously makes the situation a little bit less straight forward.
But at the same time if you look further forward through 2015 for instance.
We have created a lot of additional flexibility with the MLP.
We have got a healthy cash balance at the moment.
We’ve got very significant level of liquidity that we can leverage if that’s required.
Our operations are improving all the time.
Quarter after quarter we do better and we will -- we expect to continue doing it at this way.
And so put that all together and there’s a lot of elements that actually will help us to absorb the challenges that the marketplace imposes on our cash flow.
And that’s probably all I want to say about it.
Furthermore if you really want to study this our 10-Q is actually a pretty good media for us.
And it does include fair amount of intelligence around that and I would suggest and I’d like to refer to that for further information.
In terms of the impairment that is interesting and that is a thoughtful question as well.
I should also refer to the Q.
I think its Page 38 of the 10-Q that actually gives you a lot of insight but I’ll give you a summary of that.
So as you would expect we test our assets and good foreign impairment on a regular basis.
And we will repeat that exercise as and when appropriate.
Clearly the market conditions share price appreciations have added some scrutiny to that but so far we’ve passed all the tests.
And I don’t want to call into the technicalities because they are covered by the 10-Q and I would really like you to just have a look at that and perhaps we can have another conversation about those technicalities if it’s not clear from the Q.
It’s quite transparent.
You won’t find too many Qs actually explaining impairment better than that one.
Okay.
Can you just -- I think you mentioned it before? The minimum cash level you require to run your operations? What was the number there? The comfortable level of cash on our balance sheet is about $1.5 billion.
As I said earlier it’s not magical number.
We can go below that periodically.
We’ve got $3 billion of liquidity available to us through a committed revolving credit facility that was very recently put in place with very favorable terms actually.
So there's nothing particularly magical about that number and we’ve got a whole of more liquidity than that.
And we will have our follow-up question from David Smith with Heikkinen Advisors.
Thanks much for letting me circle back in.
Just wanted to ask given the large number of the fifth-gen rigs that become available between now and November I think I count about 10 backing out the Sedco express? Was just wondering what initiatives you could pursue to reduce the daily idle costs for that fleet if it does experience a prolonged increase in idle days? And how low could you get that daily idle cost down compared to the in-service costs? Yes.
There are some things you can do with respect to accruing forcing people to do their training on their off time rather than their on time sorry forcing people to do training on-time rather than their off-time.
That helps you reduce the cost.
The challenge with the fifth gen rigs is they are almost exclusively dynamically positioned.
They don’t have very robust mooring systems typically.
And so the idea of trying to put a fifth gen rig up into sort of pulled status in sheltered waters is a real challenge and operational challenge.
And so keeping the dynamic positioning system operating so that you can keep the rig somewhere in sheltered water without the benefit of mooring does entail a certain amount of cost.
So I think you could do a lot to reduce the cost.
The challenge is that the fact the matter that you cannot you can't put those rigs into cold stack status because of the absence of our robust mooring system.
When you talk about the ability to do a lot to reduce costs are we talking about a 20% reduction 50% reduction? Well I think immediately we start looking at something like 10% to 15% to 20% reduction pending the award of a new contract.
If we really decide that there are that the rig is going to be long term ideal we think we can get it down to about 50%.
There are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back to Mr.
Newman for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Chanel.
Thank you all for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your interest in the company and we’ll talk to you on the third quarter results call.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Makweta.
Good day to everyone and welcome to Transocean’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules including reconciliations and disclosures regarding non-GAAP financial measures are posted on the company’s website at deepwater.com.
Joining me on this morning’s call are Steven Newman Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikaheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
During the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Such statements are based upon the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to our SEC filings for more information regarding our forward-looking statements including the risks and uncertainties that could impact our future results.
Also please note that the company undertakes no duty to update or revise forward-looking statements.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate on this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up question.
Thanks very much.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steven Newman.
Steven? Thanks Thad and welcome to all of our employees customers investors and analysts.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
I apologize for the sudden change in our reporting schedule.
As indicated in the notification the implications of the impairment testing adversely affected the timetable for the conference call.
As you saw from our third quarter press release last night we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interest of $2.22 billion or $6.12 per diluted share.
After adjusting for net unfavorable items of $2.57 billion including the impairment of our goodwill and of the deepwater asset group adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $352 million or $0.96 per diluted share While we made very good progress in our operating performance during the first half of the year with 95.4% revenue efficiency the third quarter was disappointing at 92.6%.
The challenges we experienced during July and August were associated primarily with the drawworks incident on the Deepwater Nautilus and well control and station keeping incidence on other rigs but they represented only temporary setbacks in our long-term efforts to improve the consistency of our operations.
As I have said in the past while our progress in improving our underlying operating results will not always be linear we are making significant headway and you should expect this to continue.
Our quarterly results benefited from two key elements of our strategy; investment in high specification ultra-deepwater assets as illustrated by the commencement of operations on the Deepwater Invictus and the Deepwater Asgard the two newest additions to our fleet of high spec ultra-deepwater floaters and continued progress in our efforts to improve our cost structure.
Esa will provide you with some additional color on the numbers including the goodwill and asset impairments in a moment.
The market pause we began discussing with you more than a year ago has evolved into a cyclical downturn.
Although our customers take a decidedly long-term view in making investment decisions the approximately 27% decline in oil prices observed over the last three months is likely to increase their challenge to improve short-term returns to their shareholders.
In turn this may temporarily exacerbate the offshore rig supply imbalance that has already resulted in dayrate and utilization pressures and an increase in the inter-contract idle time in stacking of rigs and potentially delayed the cyclical recovery.
As you know the most effective cure for a low oil price is a low oil price and we maintain that our customers’ obligation to replace reserves and grow production will inevitably drive a return to drilling.
It is in this context that our long-term bullish view of offshore drilling remains intact underpinned by our fundamental belief in the long-term growth of energy demand and the key role that offshore hydrocarbons will play in meeting that demand.
The industry has been through these downturns before and Transocean is well positioned to manage through this one.
We continue to take actions we believe are necessary to transform the company in the context of this long-term view.
In the current market conditions our near-term tactics will continue to reflect a disciplined approach to maximizing utilization.
In tandem with our view of the business we remain committed to our long-term view of capital allocation.
The current industry conditions serve as an acute reminder that financial flexibility can be a competitive advantage.
The strength of our balance sheet reflected in our investment grade credit rating will enable us to act on opportunities which typically materialize in industry downturns.
We will also continue to pursue our asset strategy recognizing that high-spec floaters and premium jackups are much more resilient in stress markets.
Our newbuild program remains on track with our near-term drillship deliveries backed by long-term contracts at attractive dayrates.
We have received encouraging interest from customers in our five speculative jackups under construction and we will continue to pursue appropriate contracts for these 2016 and 2017 deliveries.
These investments in new rigs will drive long-term shareholder returns.
The corollary to investing in new high-spec assets is the disposition of the company's lower spec rigs.
As a result of our efforts over the last couple of years the company is no longer exposed to the low spec commodity jackup business and our competitive position in jackups will continue to improve as we take delivery of our newbuilds.
With respect to our non-core floater fleet we intend to scrap certain cold stacked rigs recognizing their limited potential to re-enter the market.
The company will continue to assess the competitiveness of non-core assets on a case-by-case basis and we are likely to retire additional rigs.
Regarding Caledonia our North Sea mid-water floater business having recently tested the private placement market in a disciplined manner we have concluded that there is greater value for Transocean to own 100% of Caledonia for the time being.
We will continue the process of internal separation in pursuit of the ultimate divestiture of the business as market conditions warrant.
During the third quarter we closed a highly successful IPO of Transocean Partners following through on an important element of our strategy to enhance the company's financial flexibility.
For those of you that are interested Partners will hold its inaugural results conference call a bit later today to discuss its third quarter performance.
In addition to delivering on our commitments to continue to enhance our financial flexibility and execute our asset strategy I also note that Transocean is currently paying a dividend with a very competitive yield.
Management and the Board remain committed to a balanced approach to value creation including making disciplined high return investments in our fleet maintaining a strong and flexible balance sheet as characterized by an investment grade rating on our debt and the return of excess cash to shareholders through a sustainable competitive dividend.
You should expect the Board to make its recommendation to shareholders regarding the dividend in advance of the annual general meeting expected to be held in the spring of 2015.
Over the last couple of years we have been focused on executing a set of strategies to transform the company and on reducing the uncertainties unique to Transocean.
To the latter point we welcomed the district court's ruling on September 4 in the Macondo litigation.
In the ruling Judge Barbier found that BP’s contractual agreement to indemnify Transocean for compensatory damages and to release its own claims against Transocean is valid and enforceable.
Judge Barbier also found that Transocean was not grossly negligent eliminating any exposure to punitive damages.
While the ruling is subject to appeal we remain confident in our position and the merits of our case.
During the quarter we had more favorable news regarding the significant ongoing tax case in Norway.
The State dropped all civil and criminal claims regarding the tax residency of Arcade one of the company’s subsidiaries which was one of the larger claims the state had been pursuing.
The overall progress in Norway has been extremely favorable and absent any future material developments this will be the last time we provide updates on this litigation on our quarterly call.
For the remaining appeals in the tax litigation we believe that our tax returns are materially correct as filed and will continue to contest any allegations to the contrary.
Finally I want to thank all of you who participated in our recent extraordinary general meeting where shareholders elected Pete Miller to our Board of Directors.
I want to publicly welcome Pete and I look forward to working together with Pete and the entire Board as we continue to transform the company.
With that I'll pass it over to Esa.
Esa? Thank you Steven.
And good day to everyone on the call.
I’ll discuss the key elements of our results and then comment on our 2014 and our preliminary 2015 guidance.
As Steven already mentioned for the third quarter of 2014 we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interest of $2.22 billion or $6.12 per diluted share.
These results included $2.57 billion or $7.08 per diluted share in net unfavorable items.
Excluding these items our adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $352 million or $0.96 per diluted share.
This compares with adjusted earnings of $587 million or $1.61 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014.
Net unfavorable items included an estimated non-cash charge of $1.92 billion for goodwill impairment.
Under US GAAP we test for goodwill impairment annually as of October 1 and whenever we identify indicators of impairment.
The goodwill impairment relates primarily to the general drilling market conditions that have led to a decline in the market valuation of the contract drilling business.
Subsequent to September 30 2014 we have observed additional indicators of impairment and a continued degradation of market conditions.
We will evaluate our goodwill again in the fourth quarter and may be required to recognize additional losses for impairment.
After this periods of adjustment the remaining value of the goodwill on our books is approximately $1 billion.
Net unfavorable items also included an after-tax charge of $693 million associated with an impairment of our deepwater asset group.
The pretax impairment was $788 million as disclosed on Friday.
Similar to goodwill the asset impairment results from a markdown of the book value of the asset group to its implied market value also reflecting the recent decline in day rates and utilization for this particular asset class.
Other net favorable items of $45 million or $0.12 per diluted share is detailed in our press release but primarily associated with favorable discrete tax benefits.
Now to our financial performance for the quarter.
Consolidated revenues decreased $58 million sequentially to $2.27 billion.
This decrease was mainly due to lower revenue efficiency of 92.6% versus 95% in Q2 and higher out of service time as expected and earlier disclosed in our fleet updates.
Fleet utilization was 75% compared with 78% in the prior quarter.
This decrease in revenues was partly offset by the commencement of operations of the company's two ultra-deepwater new builds Deepwater Asgard and the Deepwater Invictus.
Third quarter operating and maintenance expenses increased $105 million to $1.32 billion consistent with the guidance provided when we reported the second quarter.
This increase in O&amp;M is mainly associated with higher activity and costs incurred on rigs undergoing shipyard maintenance surveys and repair projects particularly on several harsh environment floaters as well as contract preparation on the Transocean Amirante.
General and administrative expenses decreased by $11 million to $52 million.
The sequential decrease was due to lower project related legal and professional fees and reduced personnel costs resulting from the company’s operational efficiency initiative.
Third quarter annual effective tax rate from continuing operations was 24.8% versus 12.6% in the prior quarter.
The increase reflects implementation of UK legislation related to bareport charter payments to affiliates as discussed in prior conference calls and in our various filings as well as movement of rigs between jurisdictions and the impact of foreign currency especially Norway.
We ended the quarter with approximately $2.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents up approximately $750 million.
The change reflects the sequential net increase in cash from operations of about $246 million to $882 million.
$102 million of proceeds from asset sales primarily from the GSF Magellan and approximately $416 million of net proceeds from the sale of non-controlling interest in Transocean Partners LLC.
These were partially offset by capital expenditures totaling $365 million up $15 million from the previous quarter and payment of $272 million to shareholders for the second installment of our $3 per share dividend.
I'll now spend a moment updating our guidance for 2014 and then provide a preliminary view of selected key items for 2015.
Keep in mind that we continue to work through our 2015 budget and forecast process and will provide more refined guidance when we report our fourth quarter 2014 results early next year.
Given the steady operating performance throughout the year we are well capable of achieving our full-year 2014 revenue efficiency target of approximately 94% and there is no change in our guidance.
We continue to make progress towards reducing our 2014 operating expenses and are narrowing O&amp;M guidance to between $5.1 billion and $5.2 billion.
Our previous O&amp;M guidance was $5.1 billion to $5.3 billion.
G&amp;A depreciation expense net interest expense and capital expenditures remain unchanged for 2014 and within the respective guidance ranges provided earlier in the year.
Our 2014 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is still expected within the range of our previous guidance of 14% to 17%.
These expectation reflects our results for the quarter and an updated forecast for each of our rigs.
As a further reminder it also fully accounts for the changes associated with the new UK tax law signed in July but retroactive to April 2014.
Turning now to preliminary 2015 guidance on key items.
As already said please keep in mind that our 2015 budgets are in process and are subject to Board approval.
Our estimates could change and will be affected by activity levels shipyard timing decisions to scrap or stack rigs and changes in industry inflation among other factors.
We expect revenue efficiency to average approximately 95% for 2015 as reflected in our margin improvement initiatives.
Operating and maintenance cost for 2015 are expected to be lower as compared to 2014.
This preliminary guidance reflects our initial progress to date and continued commitment to reduce our operating costs.
Final guidance will be provided on the next call with a more fulsome bridging and analysis.
We continue to focus on performance and delivering consistently improving financial results at the rig level with a full focus on operational safety and integrity and while remaining fully compliant with our high standards and regulatory and customer requirements.
As we have emphasized in the past these steps are expected to further improve our profitability and cash flow in 2015 and thereafter.
We forecast our G&amp;A expenses in 2015 to decline to between $200 million and $225 million due to our ongoing cost reduction efforts.
Furthermore we expect our 2015 capital expenditures to be approximately $1.9 billion which includes $1.4 billion associated with our new build program.
Regarding the balance sheet we continue to work towards reducing our gross long-term debt to below $9 billion.
Early October we issued a notice of partial redemption of $207 million to holders of our senior notes due 2015.
Reflecting our continued commitment to an investment grade balance sheet this will achieve the goal we set in 2013 to accelerate the retirement of $1 billion of debt by the end of 2014.
Scheduled debt maturities for 2015 are about $1.1 billion.
There is no change to our liquidity target which remains between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion including our un-drawn $3 billion revolving credit facility.
Regarding Caledonia Offshore Drilling as Steven discussed we have largely completed the internal separation and have maintained full flexibility to pursue all options to maximize the value of Caledonia including divestiture in part or whole to a public or private buyer a spin or a public offering.
Beginning in the fourth quarter we will start to report standalone performance details for Caledonia to provide additional transparency into this business.
Our objective is to maximize the value of these assets in the context of their capability very strong cash flow $1.1 billion in contract backlog at above market day rates and the market leadership in the unique market in which they operate.
We will communicate our plans and further actions related to Caledonia as they develop.
During the third quarter we closed the highly successful IPO of Transocean Partners.
As mentioned the transaction contributed net proceeds of $416 million to Transocean.
Of further note since the IPO shares of Transocean Partners have been the best performing equity among offshore drillers.
To conclude our efforts to reduce our costs improve our operating performance optimize the value of our non-core fleet and the IPO of Transocean Partners all contribute to our financial flexibility enabling us to continue to execute our balanced capital allocation strategy.
Even in the context of this difficult market we continue to be confident in our ability to achieve these objectives.
This concludes my comments and I will now hand over to Terry to provide you with an update on market conditions.
Terry? Thanks Esa and good day to everyone.
As everyone is aware the market remains challenging.
Year-to-date we secured $2.1 billion of contract backlog including contracts for the Transocean Leader Transocean Honor Transocean Amirante and others.
In addition we recently executed an agreement to replace the Sedneth 701 with a GSF Rig 135 for the remaining backlog on the 701 contact.
We also just signed a one-well extension on the Discoverer Enterprise at about $398 000 per day.
The agreement also includes four one-well price options.
We added about 700 million in contract backlog since the last call generally in line with what we delivered in each of the first two quarters of the year.
This demonstrates the company's ability to continue to transact business in this very challenging market.
Since our last call ultra-deepwater dayrates and utilization have remained under pressure.
Customers continue to focus on short term cash flows and capital allocation and as the recent reduction in commodity pricing experienced further pressure on their cash flows it affects our activity levels and spending plans.
In this environment operators are also increasingly inclinec to reduce their contractual commitments to farmout activity.
We do not yet know how much the decrease in commodity pricing will ultimately impact E&amp;P budgeting for 2015 but we are pleased to see the supply of available rigs decline as a result of the recent and expected announcement of contract awards in Brazil US Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
Additionally the delay in delivery of competitors’ new builds also reduced its near term rig supply.
However we continue to expect challenging conditions as we work to contract our rigs in an oversupplied market and are likely to experience inter-contract idle time and significant competition on the limited tendering opportunities available.
Deepwater and midwater markets remain weak and as higher specification units compete for lower spec jobs we expect this will continue to drive older less capable units out of the market and additional units will be retired.
As Steven noted earlier we will continue to take a disciplined approach to retiring some of our own non-core assets.
This will have a positive impact and contribute to balancing the floater market over time.
The premium jackup market is also showing initial signs of pricing pressure with lower rates for newbuilds being reported in Asia and West Africa.
While the large influx of uncontracted new builds will challenge the less capable rigs we believe the new builds being offered by established drilling contractors with a solid operating history will be preferred by our customers all else being equal.
Now to the quarter utilization for the global ultra-deepwater fleet is currently around 94% with 7 ultra-deepwater rigs available including our rigs the GSF Jack Ryan Spirit GSF CR Luigs and the GSF Development Driller 1.
While we are actively marketing and expect to have some positive news soon we expect Petrobras to announce delevered tender winners which could be up to three units.
Additionally we expect the announcement of eight extensions plus two new tenders for approximately 2 to 4 rigs in total.
West Africa India and Mexico could provide incremental demand in the near future as long as the regulatory authorities approve the programs.
The pace of tendering continues to be slow for the deepwater market and the marketed utilization is about 86%.
During the third quarter we secured a contract for the Jack Bates in Australia.
On a positive note in India we expect two long-term tenders in the very near future for rigs capable of drilling in 5 000 feet of water.
Mid-water and harsh environment tendering activity also remained slow in the third quarter.
The recent contract termination and suspensions by Statoil in Norway to Russian sanctions delayed programs and limited programs overall continue to challenge this UK and Norwegian market.
As reported in last month’s fleet status report the Transocean Pittsburgh had recently received a contract suspension notice from Statoil reducing the dayrate by about 25% through the end of the year.
As you might expect we are seeking opportunities global for our harsh environment units currently working in the Norwegian North Sea.
An example of our success in this effort is the four-year contract secured for the Transocean Leader in the UK.
She will move south following completion of her contract in Norway.
The rate is very favorable.
The first three years will be paid at a rate of $335 000 per day and the last year will be at a rig marked linked rate between $305 000 and $365 000.
We've also transferred the remaining backlog on the 701 contract in Nigeria to the GSF Rig 135 as previously mentioned.
India is again a bright spot.
We expect 3 long-term opportunities for mid-water floaters to be tendered soon.
In October we signed a contract to return the Transocean Amirante to work on a one year charter in Libya at a rate of $335 000 per day.
Utilization and dayrates from premium jackups are beginning to moderate but we expect stable demand in Angola Mexico India Middle East and Southeast Asia.
This past quarter we extended the contract on the Transocean Honor for one year at a rate of $194 000 per day in Angola but we expect new fixture rates to decline on high spec jackups over the next 12 months.
In the medium term we expect that the influx of supply of premium assets will put considerable pressure on standard jackup rig utilization and pricing.
As a result of the disciplined execution of our asset strategy over the last couple of years we are no longer exposed to this vulnerable asset class.
Longer term we expect demand for energy to be strong and our customers will pursue reserve replacement and production growth.
As a result we expect that the currently oversupplied market will improve to a more favorable balance driven by long-term growth in activity levels and the gradual attrition of older less capable assets.
While this plays out our backlog of $23.6 billion provides us with the flexibility to weather the current challenges and position ourselves for the eventual increase in demand for offshore drilling equipment providing opportunities for our existing fleet and for future growth.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it back to you Steven.
Thanks Terry.
With that Makweta we’re ready to open it up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) We'll take our first question from Greg Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Steven good morning.
Good morning Greg.
Steven or Esa when we think about the MLP going forward in terms of growth rate in terms of asset drop downs is there sort of a target or an estimate in terms of how much capital the MLP is looking to raise or grow on an annual basis? Yes.
It’s a tough one because we are still setting Transocean Partners up and first should I say seriously proper board meeting takes place in a couple of weeks’ time.
But if you look at the S1 and you look at the pipeline if you look if you know remind yourself of the conversation we had during IPO process and you get a feel as to what's available from Transocean to the MLPs.
So the pipeline rigs represent quite a large number of assets some of them will only be delivered in 2016 2017 and altogether six assets of which four are obliged or Transocean is going to obligation drop them into the MLP.
So that gives you a good feel as to what's the minimum scope for the MLP capital.
And obviously depending on the market conditions depending on the Transocean's needs for proceeds and obviously depending on how well Transocean partners will trade in the future that amount of capital may be higher than the minimum.
Okay.
And then just shifting gears on the write-down of assets I don’t believe specific rigs were identified.
But I guess from the comments it looks like it was primarily or solely deepwater rigs in thinking about that does that mean and I don’t – if you could provide a little color in terms of what trigger those specific write-downs and as we think about the mid-water fleet there is a handful of mid-water rigs that are already stacked is it that those assets are already at appropriate book values or as we think about it the mid-water rigs we can potentially see write downs in some of those idle rigs in the future? Yes.
It’s a good question.
So first of all we do asset impairment on a asset class basis generally speaking and then clearly deepwater asset class has been quite significantly impacted by the recent deterioration in the quality of the marketplace though that explains – goes a long way to explain why deepwater.
Mid-water is a mixed bag particularly given the fact that it also includes the high value Caledonia assets and the high value Caledonia business and therefore there has been no impairment associated to that asset class at least not in Q3.
When it comes to those individual assets that you mentioned we've got stacked assets and so on as long as they are stacked and available for operations they will be part of impairment evaluation in its respective asset class.
The moment we take a decision to either scrap it or sell it we look at the book value in comparison with the fair market value for that particular asset.
So that’s the way the mechanics work so far as the asset class review and then depending on the situation of the individual asset we then considering payment on a asset by asset basis.
We'll take our next question from Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks for taking my question.
I want to ask quickly about the logistics of stacking six in seven gen rigs several of your peers are saying they would rather chase day rates down than stack high end floaters.
So I am just wondering if this is a case how should we think about a floor for ultra-deep day rates and what's keeping them moving towards cash costs? I think broadly speaking Jason it is more difficult to stack a dynamically positioned rig with very complex operating and control systems than it has historically been to stack a more floater with relatively simple systems.
There aren’t many peers around the world with key side access that peer owner is willing to allow to be tied up with dynamically positioned asset and there aren’t very many available peers that have the kind of water depth required to get an asset with thrusters in the key sites.
So typically what the scenario would suggest is you'd be keeping the dynamically positioned asset idle but have to continue to run the power plant to provide power to the thrusters to be able to maintain station.
So that limits the ability to dramatically reduce costs on an idle fifth or sixth or seventh generation DP vessel and I think that’s what the peers might be alluding to when they say they'd rather maintain those assets operating rather than stack them I think we're probably in the same situation.
I think the answer to the second part of your question which is what's going to provide the floors just overall activity levels overtime you'll see dynamically positioned assets displace more assets provided the DP assets can work in water depth and so you know dynamically – I think the industry will try and maintain utilization levels of DP assets at the expense of more assets and as long as activity levels are out there to support that that should provide a bit of floor underneath day rates for DP assets.
So that new has a got a lot of supposition and speculation embedded in that answer.
Right.
That’s helpful thanks.
Maybe let’s segue into my second which is maybe more for Terry but we sort of now with the supply side of new built deliveries looks like from next year and you guys always seem to have a pretty good hand on the number of tenders for incremental rigs that are out there.
I was wondering if you could maybe put some numbers around the demand side.
Yes.
It’s a little bit difficult at the moment because we're not seeing a lot of demand that’s being pushed out on the table.
There are few opportunities coming up that we're helpful.
I mentioned some of those and some of that’s in India and also we believe that you know Brazil is going to come out with a tender that it’s going to be little bit less of a respect to displace some of their moored units for the Campus Basin.
So we're hopeful that those tenders come out and I think that will have another high spec tender.
We think there will three rigs for labor to be announced soon.
So we like the movement that we're just not seeing enough demand to take on the significant supply.
We think there is probably one more rig that could be contracted in the Gulf of Mexico and so again those are positive points but simply not enough to absorb all supply and also the other positive is the folks that are setting the new builds without contract they are further delaying their rigs so that’s an artificial improvement in the market.
(Operator instructions) We'll take our next question from Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Jud.
Question I guess for Terry Terry thanks for the candid commentary on the market.
I wonder if you could maybe give us a little more color you've got you have some good rigs higher spec rigs at the Jack Ryan and the Luigs which are looking for work and several other high spec ultra-deepwater rigs coming off contract? Could you give us just a little color on the conversations maybe that you are having with customers are you primarily looking at well to well work are you looking at even lower spec opportunities for those rigs and I was trying to get a sense how much longer those rigs could remain idle before they pick up some of sort of work?  Hi Jud.
You know being able to be very specific on the exact opportunities that we're chasing obviously is not good to let our competitors know what we're thinking about.
But right now it appears that we're able to talk with our customers about some one off works and well to well work.
We have identified few customers that have I guess we're going to call long-term work now six months of work which is certainly a very positive but there are some opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico to do this there is also some opportunities in West Africa in Asia that we can quickly identify and hopefully close out.
But there is going to be some idle time we see we know it and we're just going to fight to put those rigs to work.
There’s this interesting if you think of the C.R.
Luigs.
It’s probably one of the most efficient rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and we’d put her up against a newbuild any day and we have so many customers that in our call constantly saying we mam we'd love to take that rig and it’s just that it’s a condition that they find themselves in it simply can't add capacity.
So like you said we do have some great rigs that our customers would really like to put to work but in this constraint capital and budget concerns for them it’s going to just take some time for that to play out.
Okay.
And then I guess my follow up would be just maybe talk a little bit more maybe about the north sea and the landscape there Steven in his prepared comments I think accurately said that the slowdown is turning into more of cynical down turn and I presume the first place you start to see this in the north sea are you – is that what you're starting to are you seeing a reaction from customers in that market or any other markets already from the decline in oil price? In some of the conversations we've had with our customers it’s a fact that they can’t sell down their properties they need partners some are saying they have a little bit of challenge in getting access to capital.
It’s certainly the impact of Statoil dropping as many rigs as they can or suspending them is not good news.
We were very fortunate as you know to quickly move the leader and attain that contract in the North Sea but it’s challenging and we're not seeing a lot of opportunity on the horizon right now in 2015.
We'll take our next question from Ross Payne with Wells Fargo  Thanks.
And I appreciate your comments on your investment grade rating.
It feels like number one want to keep your financial flexibility and number two keep your investment grade rating does that play into the potential to it sounds like you guys are going to be looking at the dividend you could still keep it competitive with a decrease in that dividend is that kind of where things maybe heading for you guys in terms of keeping your financial flexibility? Thanks.
Yes Ross without trying to paint the board’s decision making process into a corner I would reiterate what I said on my prepared comments that management team and the board believe in a balanced approach to allocating capital.
We think that financial flexibility in a cyclical industry is a competitive advantage and we'd like to retain that competitive advantage given the current challenges in the industry.
We also believe that continuing to invest in our fleet will drive long-term shareholder returns and we believe it’s appropriate to reward our shareholders with the distribution of excess cash.
So the board will take all of that into consideration as they continue to refine their thinking and rationalize their decision making process in anticipation of giving the shareholders a recommendation in advance to the 2015 AGM.
Right.
Thank you guys.
We'll take our next question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Angie.
Hi so as a follow up to the prior question if you do consider either reducing or eliminating the dividend could you remind us of the process given your Switzerland location and the time out of your board meetings and what is the process and the timeline? Yes.
So one of the outcomes of being a Swiss corporation is that the dividend is a shareholder decision and so I – as you have seen historically the board typically presents its recommendation to the shareholders when the board publishes the proxy with all of the recommendations for the AGM.
And so that that typically comes out in preliminary form in early March and in definitive form in early April in anticipation of a board meeting that typically takes place in the May time frame and so that same timeline would apply for the 2015 AGM as well.
Okay.
All right thanks.
That’s helpful.
And then Terry I obviously a difficult market and a challenging one and here in Q4 you have ten of your floaters particularly good floaters up for contract renewal and then I think roughly 50% of your floaters are up for contract renewals in 2015.
So when you think through that at least as in Q4 where do you think the risk is or maybe even where you think you're more likely to stack rig.
Can you talk about some other rigs that you think do have a chance sustain working or versus the ones that are very likely to be stacked in the near term or idle?  Hi Angie.
Yes I think you described it quite well incredibly challenging.
We do have obviously more rigs coming available than our competitors in the timeframe in a very brilliant market.
We would certainly be thrilled about that.
But as luck would have it here we are.
I think the biggest risk is the budget cycle and commodity – the macro.
So I mean it’s something that obviously none of us can control but I think that’s a bigger risk.
How I would see our opportunities we just announced on one of them the enterprise she has been performing very well for BP and they extended our as I said for one well and then have four options.
So they like what she is doing and we're very hopeful to keep her going there.
We do have some other opportunities on extensions that we are discussing with some of our customers but I would expect that if you look at our older class rigs that are pretty long in the tooth and if we don’t have follow on work I think those would be the first ones that we would sell off and I don’t think that we've actually stared naming names yet but I think that’s where we're headed with that I'll let Steven comment more on that if he'd like to.
The other thing that we're doing and we've done this on several of the rigs previously as an example on the DD2 we displaced moored unit to one that works so we're going to compete down with the rest of our fleet and we're going do our best to keep these rigs working.
But again the demand level - if we look at the rig years that were fixed in this last – the beginning of 2014 on the floater side those levels are looking a lot like 2002 and 2009 unfortunately.
So that’s - as you say it’s a challenging market but that’s what we're going to do.
We'll take our next question from Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Partners.
Hey thanks for taking my question.
It strikes me that the write-downs that have happened here maybe part of a function of the fact that this been consolidation by Transocean over time and maybe a write off of some of the assets acquired now.
Does that in anyway impact what may be happening on kind of 5G rigs going forward as maybe your carrying cost versus some of your peers maybe a little bit higher is that something that we may see when you kind of talk about future asset write downs is that something that may become a factor?  Darren it’s Esa here.
I wouldn’t mind if you repeated the question because the line wasn’t very clear and we are all a little bit puzzled as to what exactly you wanted to ask from us so if you don’t mind? No I am sorry.
Do hear me okay now? Yes better.
Great.
So what I was saying is that given the fact you know Global Santa Fe acquisitions different things that have kind of been pulled together and probably assets marked up upon purchase.
Does that create an issue when you think about what's just happened with write downs for maybe 5G assets that maybe at a higher carrying value than say kind of the average and maybe what your peers are carrying the same assets at because I noticed within you commentary you mentioned the potential for future asset write-downs? Yes good question.
The - pretty much the goodwill write down actually - very large driver of that have to do with the legacies created as part of the merger.
At the end of the day of course is the decline in the quality of the marketplace and that the forecasted utilization in dayrates that drive the outcome but a lot of the goodwill that we carried on our books was actually origined some year back as a result of the merger.
And there are some fifth gen assets that relate to the same situation and some assets that the company actually inherited but none of them as far as I remember are also deepwater capable.
So you know this does take care of most of those legacy situations; we may have some further legacies but as long as the fifth gen assets are part of the ultra-deepwater asset class as they typically are that is the most robust asset class going forward because the market conditions as present as well as forecasted are most favorable in that asset group.
So I don’t think we've got any particular disadvantage against our competitors there some of our competitors have actually gone through some acquisitions and merger as well and as a result of that they may have similar challenges to what Transocean had as a result of its own activities in the past.
Okay.
Understood.
And you know I don’t know who to direct this one at in particular but you know obviously we've been poking around at retirements here and trying to get a better understanding can we get like an order of magnitude of maybe the like just if is not rig specifically and maybe kind of number of rigs we’re considering for retiring is it 10 to 15 15 to 20 just to give us some frame of mind? Yes I think we're reluctant to do that Darren for a whole host of reasons.
You can assume that the assets we have in our fleet that are cold stacked and have been cold stacked for any period of time are likely candidates for retirement but as both I and Terry said in our prepared comments the ongoing decision making is really going to reflect an asset by asset analysis.
If we're confident that Terry can find opportunities to keep the rigs operating we're likely to do exactly that but if we bump up against a significant investment like a special periodic survey and market condition don’t support that kind of an investment then we're left with the decision about how to cut costs on that kind of an asset as quickly as possible and if we conclude that there is very little likelihood of that asset ever retuning in an economic way to compete in the marketplace then we're likely to take the decision to scrap it but you can see how that manifest itself in really an asset by asset determination.
Got it.
Are we far along in those determinations now or is it sort of something we’ve started to work on? Well it’s ongoing exercise so as I said the rigs that are – the rigs that have been cold stacked I would say we're fairly far along but assets that are still operating today are focused as both I and Terry indicated our focus is to try and maintain those rigs operating to continue to generate cash.
We'll take our next question from Andreas Stubsrud with Pareto Securities.
Thank you.
I have a question… Hi Andrew… Related to actually what you just answered in terms of typically SPS or going into the shipyard typically for the 5G unit.
So in terms of GSF CR Luigs how do you pronounce that name is that going through its SPS without a contract behind or am I misunderstanding the situation there? On the CR Luigs address we are undertaking minimal expenditure and trying to manage that expenditure in the context of the opportunities that Terry is chasing.
So we're not committing significant capital to the rig until we find an opportunity but there are some things we are taking advantage of idle time to undertake that don’t represent a significant cost.
Okay.
Great.
That was my only question.
Thank you.
Thanks Andrew.
(Operator instructions) We'll go next to David Smith with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning thank you for taking my question.
Hi David.
Along the lines of the substitution of the Sedco Energy against the GSF Rig 135 contract I was wondering if you see other opportunities to substitute available ultra-deepwater rigs against lower spec contract backlog that you may have as a way to keep those rigs active and rationalize the contract overall cost structure?  Yes David.
You know we're looking at all those types of opportunities in our own fleet and also in where our competitors have less capable rigs.
So we're going to look if it makes sense to displace the asset and do that to keep our more capable assets running that’s what we're looking at.
And including substituting against existing backlog that the lower spec rigs may already have? That’s correct.
We'll look at those opportunities too as long as it makes economical sense to do so at the time.
All right thank you.
We'll take our next question from Vivek Pal with Jefferies.
Yes good morning.
Good morning.
Can you please refresh your debt reduction targets? Is it still $9 billion by 2016 or is there a change in that and the reason I asked that is in the next two years you have over $2 billion of debt reduction.
So how should we think about it? Is it going to be an absolute pay down? Are you looking to term it out?  Yes we continue to move towards the target of $9 billion of gross debt and based on the existing majorities we are very close to that mark by the end of next year.
Okay.
Now if the situation the macro situation doesn’t improve how would you prioritize between dividend cut issuing new equity or selling more assets into the MLP? You know as I have repeatedly said Vivek we will look at a whole host of levers that we think are available to us including asset divestitures and operating cash flow and continuing to think about our investment program alongside our balance sheet objectives and the return of excess cash to our shareholders.
So I wouldn’t say that there is a constrained priority that’s going to force the Board to make one decision over another the Board looks at all of those things when they carry on their debate about all those various alternatives and they would factor all of those alternatives and that decision making process into the final recommendation they present to the shareholders next spring.
Yes it’s Esa Ikaheimonen here just one thing to add just one thing to add you specifically mentioned the Transocean Partners and dropping assets to Transocean Partners and I should just mentioned that the Transocean's periodic needs for proceeds is the prime reason for us establishing Transocean Partners and that gives us that financial flexibility significant element of financial flexibility that supports our capital allocation priorities.
So if there is a priority in some of the levers that you just mentioned it’s probably the easy one because that’s why it’s there.
As long as it makes sense and as long as the economics are supportive and as long as there is a cost to capital advantage in leveraging Transocean Partners that would make sense and that’s why it’s there.
We'll take our last question from Mabel Yu with Vanguard.
Hello thank you.
Can you elaborate how flexible is your capital budget so that helps you to balance your capital structure? And also you know can you give us a little bit more insight why the investment grade rating is important to you guys when it comes to prioritize the capital structure? Okay.
Thanks for the question Mabel.
Esa Ikaheimonen here again the CFO briefly both our CapEx for the next three years or so is pretty fixed as a result of the fact that we've got most of that CapEx is due to commitment to newbuilds that we've made.
So to take for instance the guidance that I just gave on 2015 preliminary guidance I should mention total CapEx $1.9 billion $1.4 of that has to do with the committed newbuild payments and the remaining $500 million or so has to do with ongoing run and maintain CapEx as well as the shipyard activities that we undertake during 2015.
So in the short run it’s not flexible in longer run it’s obviously quite flexible because we can choose either to continue build or buy incremental assets which is the key component of the CapEx or then we can choose not to do that.
But next couple of years it’s pretty firm.
The other question with regards to the investment grade rating we've said continuously and repeatedly that this is a cyclical industry and having a strong balance sheet is a competitive advantage.
It give us obviously competitive cost of capital advantage as well as access to capital which is the most important part of it.
So people probably don’t pay quite enough attention to the fact that every once in a while the non-investment grade debt markets are challenging and therefore investment grade provides us with continuous ongoing access to capital as and when needed.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
So thank you very much for participating in today' call.
We're available over the balance of the day to answer any follow up questions you may have.
We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter 2014 call.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q4 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Paula.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules including reconciliations and disclosures regarding non-GAAP financial measures are posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
Joining me on this morning's call are Ian Strachan interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Transocean Limited; Esa Ikäheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
During the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical fact.
Such statements are based on the current expectations and current – certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to our SEC filings for more information regarding our forward-looking statements including the risks and uncertainties that could impact our future results.
Also please note that the company undertakes no duty to update or revise forward-looking statements.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow up.
Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to Ian Strachan.
Ian? Thank you Thad and welcome to our employees customers investors and analysts.
We very much appreciate your participation on today's call.
I will make a few opening remarks and then will hand over to Esa and Terry to discuss Transocean's fourth quarter results on current market conditions and to respond to any questions you may have.
First I would like to thank our employees for their extraordinary efforts in delivering yet another quarter of solid performance.
As you saw from our earnings press release we reported adjusted net income of $344 million or $0.95 per diluted share.
In the context of a very challenging marketplace our fourth quarter results reflect our continued focus on utilization revenue efficiency and cost control.
Last week we announced that the board of directors and Steven Newman mutually agreed that Steven would step down as CEO.
On behalf of the board of directors and all of Transocean's employees I want to thank Steven for almost 21 years of service to the company and during his five-year tenure as CEO his outstanding leadership in what was unquestionably the most challenging period in the company's history.
As CEO Steven initiated and oversaw essential changes that have and will continue to improve Transocean's fleet operations cost structure and long-term competitiveness.
As a result the company is well-positioned to weather the current industry downturn and emerge even stronger.
The board has formed a search committee and is urgently working to identify Steven's successor.
I want to assure all of our stakeholders that we remain focused on continuing to improve Transocean's performance and that our strategic initiatives remain firmly on track.
There will be no change in our approach to managing an increasingly commoditized capital-intensive and cyclical business.
Management will continue to take actions necessary to create value for our stakeholders over the long term.
These include executing our disciplined and balanced capital allocation strategy making accretive value-creating investments in the business paying a competitive and sustainable cash distribution to shareholders and maintaining a strong flexible balance sheet as characterized by an investment-grade rating on our debt.
With respect to the latter while we are disappointed with Moody's rating action and disagree with its conclusions we will continue to take the appropriate actions to create long-term value.
Consistent with these objectives the board is recommending that shareholders approve a U.S.
dollar-denominated dividend of $0.60 a share out of additional paid-in capital.
This and other recommendations will be filed in our proxy statement in March.
Shareholders will vote on the agenda items at the 2015 Annual General Meeting on May 15.
Turning to our current operations as of February 17 the date of our recent fleet update our backlog was approximately $21.2 billion providing a stable and visible foundation for cash flow generation.
We also discussed that we amended our construction contracts with Keppel FELS to delay the delivery of five newbuild high-specification jackups by approximately six months each and to extend the delivery dates of each rig.
The first of the jackups is now expected to be delivered in the third quarter of 2016.
This shift enhances our financial flexibility without compromising our fleet-renewal objectives.
We will continue to dispose of non-core rigs; over the last several months the company has announced that it has already scrapped or intends to scrap 12 lower-specification floaters in an environmentally responsible manner.
We are constantly evaluating the long-term economics of our fleet and may identify additional rigs for sale or scrapping.
Finally Transocean recently received another favorable ruling in the ongoing Macondo litigation.
The Texas Supreme Court concluded that BP is not entitled to insurance coverage under certain Transocean policies for damages arising from subsurface pollution; because BP not Transocean assumed liability for these claims.
While this does not provide a final resolution we remain confident in the merits of our case and anticipate a successful conclusion of this matter late in 2015 or early 2016.
Esa will now provide you with some additional comments on the company's financial performance.
Esa? Thank you Ian and good day to everyone on the call.
I will discuss the key elements of our Q4 results and then comment on our 2015 guidance.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interest of $739 million or $2.04 per diluted share.
These results included $1.083 billion or $2.99 per diluted share in net unfavorable items.
Excluding these items as Ian already mentioned our adjusted net income was $344 million or $0.95 per diluted share generally in line with the prior quarter.
Net unfavorable items included a non-cash charge of $992 million for impairment of goodwill and $148 million related to primarily the impairment of eight drilling rigs that we intend to scrap.
As you recall in our last quarter's commentary we indicated that the deteriorating drilling market conditions could result in additional goodwill impairments.
As a result of these recent adjustments we have no goodwill remaining on our balance sheet.
Other net favorable items of $57 million or $0.16 per diluted share are associated with discrete tax benefits loss and retirement of debt and some other items.
Next I'll cover our operational performance for the quarter.
Consolidated revenues decreased by $33 million sequentially to $2.24 billion due to lower utilization on some of our ultra-deepwater floaters as result of the increasingly challenging market.
Significantly improved revenue efficiency of 95.3% versus 92.6% in Q3 lower out-of-service time and a full quarter contribution from the Deepwater Asgard and the Deepwater Invictus the latest additions to our ultra-deepwater fleet largely offset the revenue impact of the increased idle time.
Fourth quarter operating and maintenance expenses decreased $8 million to $1.31 billion consistent with our guidance.
Our full-year 2014 O&amp;M costs of $5.1 billion came in at the low end of our latest guidance range of $5.1 billion to $5.2 billion.
G&amp;A increased by $10 million to $62 million primarily as a result of certain expenses associated with our cost reduction initiatives and higher costs related to Transocean Partners.
Fourth quarter annual effective tax rate was 26.5% versus 24.8% in the prior quarter.
Fourth quarter income tax expense included an unfavorable charge of $36 million $0.10 per diluted share reflecting the increase in the annual effective tax rate to 18.7% for 2014 from 16.7% for the nine months ended September 30 2014.
The increase is primarily associated with foreign currency losses on deferred tax assets denominated in Norwegian kroner.
We ended the quarter with approximately $2.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents down by $238 million.
Cash generated by operations of $566 million was offset by capital expenditures of $318 million debt repayments of $221 million including $207 million associated with the completion of our $1 billion accelerated debt retirement program and finally $272 million for the third installment of the 2014 dividend.
I will now spend a few moments updating our guidance for 2015.
Given favorable fleet operating performance throughout 2014 and so far this year there's no change in our 2015 revenue efficiency guidance.
We expect to achieve our target of 95%.
Other revenues which primarily include reimbursables are expected to be between $115 million and $130 million.
We currently estimate our full-year 2015 operating and maintenance expenses to be between $4.5 billion and $4.7 billion.
This represents about 8% to 12% reduction net of inflation over our full-year 2014 O&amp;M costs and reflects our intense and continuous focus on cost management across the company.
The decrease in 2015 O&amp;M costs as compared with 2014 is primarily due to the following.
Firstly a reduction in expenses associated with idle and stacked floaters as well as the divestment of our assets held for sale.
And secondly cost reductions associated with our onshore and offshore initiatives including continued optimization of our out-of-service expenditures.
Both of these comprise about half of the total estimated year-over-year cost reduction.
Some of the savings are offset by a full year of operations on our two newbuild ultra-deepwater floaters which commenced operations in mid-2014.
Due to seasonality as well as the number of planned shipyard days as noted in our recent fleet status report we expect O&amp;M costs in the first half of 2015 to comprise about 55% of the total for the year.
We remain focused on operating performance and delivering consistently improving financial results on each of our rigs.
Likewise we're committed to scaling down our cost structure to align with lower activity levels.
We'll continue to aggressively reduce costs by quickly moving rigs with limited options for follow-on work to a stacked condition and scrap non-core rigs that we conclude are no longer economically viable.
We will also maintain an extremely disciplined approach to shipyard expenditures and will defer most projects associated with rigs lacking firm backlog.
As we have emphasized in the past these actions are expected to improve profitability and cash flow over the next several years.
We expect depreciation expense to be between $1 billion and $1.2 billion.
We forecast our G&amp;A expenses in 2015 to decline to between $200 million and $215 million a reduction of 8% to 15% net of inflation primarily due to our successful cost reduction efforts.
We expect interest expense net of interest income and capitalized interest to be between $400 million and $450 million.
Capitalized interest and interest income are expected to be approximately $130 million and $20 million respectively.
Our 2015 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is expected to be within the range of 19% to 21%.
This expectation reflects an updated forecast for each of our rigs as well as includes known changes in legislation and relevant tax treaties.
As a reminder as pre-tax income decreases the annual effective tax rate will generally increase.
We expect our 2015 capital expenditures to be about $1.8 billion including $1.3 billion associated with our newbuild program.
Regarding the balance sheet we continue to work towards reducing our gross long-term debt to below $9 billion.
Scheduled debt maturities for 2015 are about $900 million.
As a result of our focus on cash management we have reduced the minimum amount of cash required to manage the company by $250 million to $1.25 billion.
With additional optimization ongoing we believe we can reduce this further.
Our targeted liquidity range is therefore also reduced and is now $3.25 billion to $4.25 billion including our undrawn $3 billion revolving credit facility.
We're also taking other measures to optimize our medium-term capital obligations.
We announced on February 15 that our board of directors resolved to propose a significantly reduced dividend of $0.60 per share for shareholder consideration at the upcoming AGM.
Additionally as Ian already discussed we have deferred the delivery of our five newbuild jackup rigs by six months each and extended the time between deliveries to six months.
We will take additional steps as necessary to ensure that we retain adequate balance sheet flexibility.
Transocean Partners also remains a key component of Transocean's financial structure and balance sheet flexibility and we expect to continue to develop it.
While the value of the company's units have declined significantly with oil prices along with those of other similar companies there's no change in our commitment and we will keep you up-to-date on our plans in this regard.
To conclude you should expect us to remain very aggressive in our efforts to reduce our costs improve our operating performance and optimize our capital expenditures to increase our free cash flow.
To create value for all our stakeholders we will continue to adhere to our disciplined balanced approach to capital allocation as delineated by Ian in his remarks.
This concludes my comments and I will now hand over to Terry to provide you with an update on market conditions.
Terry? Thanks Esa and good day to everyone.
The market continues to be very challenging as we begin our journey into 2015.
The low commodity price environment significant reductions in our customers' budgets for offshore spending and overcapacity in the global floater fleet are negatively impacting the floater and jackup markets globally.
Despite these challenges we booked $2.7 billion of contract backlog in 2014 including contracts for the Sedco Express Development Driller I and the KG2.
In addition the option on the Jack Bates was exercised in Australia while the Transocean Searcher received a one-well contract in Norway.
We've added over $500 million in contract backlog since the last call generally in line with what we delivered in each of the first three quarters of 2014 and demonstrating the company's ability to continue to deliver value even these unfavorable market conditions.
Our backlog as of February 17 is $21.2 billion providing the foundation that will help us weather the storm until we get to a stabilized oil price environment that supports our customers' offshore programs and allows for a resurgence in demand for our rigs.
Ultra-deepwater day rates and utilization remain under pressure.
Customers are keenly focused on cost-cutting efforts and are searching for opportunities to further reduce their 2015 and 2016 spend.
We are in conversations with multiple customers to identify opportunities to capitalize on incremental terms employ higher specification rigs that can deliver more efficient performance to our customers and provide – excuse me – a mutually beneficial contribution to the cost-cutting mantra heard throughout the industry.
In this cyclical environment Transocean is well-positioned to meet the needs of our customers and capitalize on value-creating opportunities with our high specification fleet.
The recent announcement that seven newbuild Sete rigs will be canceled is favorable news for the industry out of Brazil slightly reducing future floater capacity in an already-oversupplied market.
As a result in the medium-term we expect Petrobras will take existing rigs off the market contributing to the gradual rebalancing of supply and demand.
Additionally emerging delays in the delivery of newbuilds across the industry also helps to reduce near-term rig supply.
As we look forward over the next 12 to 18 months we continue to expect challenging conditions.
As we work to contract our rigs we are likely to experience extended periods of inter-contract idle time and significant competition for the limited tendering opportunities available.
Deepwater and mid-water markets remain weak as higher specification units compete down for lower spec jobs.
We expect this will continue to drive older less capable units out of the market and where they are uneconomical to maintain to the scrap yard and this will also be helpful in balancing supply/demand in the future.
The premium jackup market is also showing signs of pricing pressure with lower rates for newbuilds expected in Asia and West Africa.
While the large influx of un-contracted newbuilds will challenge the less capable rigs we believe the new builds being offered by established drilling contractors with a solid operating history will be preferred by our customers all else being equal.
Utilization for the global ultra-deepwater fleet is currently around 90% with 17 ultra-deepwater rigs idle and available.
This includes several of our rigs which we are actively marketing and expect to have some positive news soon.
We're seeing a few tendering opportunities in Brazil India and West Africa for programs starting in 2016 and 2017.
We are hopeful that Petrobras can contract a few ultra-deepwater rigs in the near-term despite the issues facing today.
Notwithstanding recent news about contract terminations we think that Mexico could still be a source of incremental deepwater demand in the medium-term with the positive news we're seeing by the regulatory authorities.
In December 2014 we announced the long negotiated two year contract on the GSF Development Driller I in Angola and a five-month extension of the Dhirubhai Deepwater KG2 in India at rates of $382 000 and $395 000 per day respectively.
In January we extended the Sedco Express in Nigeria for two wells at $300 000 per day.
The pace of tendering continues to be slow for the deepwater market and the market utilization is around 86%.
During the fourth quarter the option for $370 000 per day was exercised for the Jack Bates in Australia.
We expect to see two long-term tenders for ONGC in the near future for rigs capable of drilling in shallow water depths up to 500 feet and deepwater depths up to 5 000 feet respectively.
Mid-water and harsh environment tendering activity also remained slow in the fourth quarter.
The impact of low oil prices has pushed customers to execute contract terminations and suspensions in Norway and the U.K.
in addition to canceling and delaying programs.
Overall 2015 will be challenging for the U.K.
and Norway and expect the market to remain oversupplied in the near-term.
A positive note the Transocean Spitsbergen is expected to return to drilling over the weekend after being on a standby rate for a couple of months in Q4.
In 2015 we have five units available in the U.K.
and Norway and as you might expect we are seeking opportunities globally for our harsh environment units.
We recently contracted the Searcher in Norway for one well at $340 000 per day.
Utilization for the standard mid-water market is around 93% but there was very little fixture activity in the last quarter.
We do see some incremental demand coming to the market in India and Southeast Asia.
Utilization for premium jackups is around 90% and day rates are beginning to moderate.
However we expect some demand in West Africa Mexico India and Southeast Asia.
In the near to medium term we expect that the influx of supply of premium assets will put considerable pressure on standard jackup rig utilization and pricing.
As a result of the disciplined execution of our asset strategy over the last couple of years we are no longer exposed to this vulnerable asset class.
We are in the trough of the cycle and we have the experience to weather this one as we have done since the 1980s.
Every drilling cycle takes time to work through imbalances and return to a healthy market environment the result of our customers again focusing on reserve replacement and production growth.
Fossil fuels will remain the primary source of energy and our customers tell us that light tight oil in deepwater offshore have a solid place in their portfolios in the future.
Transocean will fight for every opportunity to position our fleet to take advantage of the upturn when it arrives.
We will also continue to focus on high-grading our fleet and opportunistic growth.
We have the financial flexibility unmatched operational and engineering strength and our passionate and talented teams that will help ensure we emerge from this downturn as an industry leader.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it back to you Thad.
Thanks Terry.
So we'll start taking questions now and just a reminder one question and one follow-up question.
Paula please go ahead and give us the first caller.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Ian McPherson with Simmons.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Esa with regard to your O&amp;M expense guidance for 2015 I was going to see if you would be able to provide any sort of reference with regard to what's embedded in that range for stacking if it contemplates cold stacking additional rigs and I'm really interested most of all in whether you're planning to cold stack any of your idle fifth gen rigs this year and if that's reflected in the cost guidance and what the magnitude of that might be.
Thanks.
Good morning Ian.
Thanks for a good question.
I was trying to provide some additional color and guidance already in my prepared remarks where I said that the reduction on a year-on-year basis would be roughly 50% kind of like-for-like cost reduction I'll call them real cost reductions in comparison with the previous year so you can work out the numbers.
And the other half would be associated to lower levels of activity which means actually reduced O&amp;M expenses as a result of the fact that we idled some rigs as well as stacked some of them.
We haven't provided detailed guidance in terms of what exactly is embedded in that in terms of individual rigs or any of that and for that you will have to keep an eye on our fleet status report that shows the evolution.
But you do know already from our previous announcements that we have taken a decision to stack 12 rigs scrap actually 12 rigs and that's obviously included in that and that has quite a reducing impact on our O&amp;M.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Esa.
A follow-up question for you Terry.
I think we're all concerned about contract integrity.
Three months ago when Statoil terminated the Stena rig it was bad but at least Stena got the $350 million check right? And the rhetoric that we're hearing from so many drilling contractors is that the concern is that it's really more a prospect now of termination for convenience without necessarily the prospects of being kept whole on your contract terms.
Can you elaborate on that? Is that how you see the risk right now? Or is that more of an exception or more likely to be the rule for 2015? Ian we've been in a lot of conversations with our customers and we're trying to work together with them to come up with as I said in the notes a mutually beneficial win-win opportunities.
We are not from our perspective we're not seeing what some of our other competitors have been exposed to just recently and I know that there was probably some concern about some of the Petrobras contracts.
Our Petrobras contracts can be terminated because of poor performance and that is primarily the issue with most of our contracts is that we have to perform.
We don't have we're not exposed to PEMEX.
We don't have a termination for convenience for a number of days without payout on any of our contracts.
Most of our contracts don't have a termination for convenience and those that do have a contracted payout.
So I like the position that we're in with our backlog because I believe it's very solid and our teams have done a good job of negotiating these contracts over the years.
And we'll move to our next question.
That will come from Praveen Narra with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just to follow up on the last one could you talk about the extent to which contract performance issues give the freedom to the customer to cancel contracts? Assuming that the rig meets the technical specs how many days does a rig have to be down before the operator can say that they don't want the rig anymore? Is it a year or six months? How should we think about that? That's a good question.
It just depends on the contracts.
It's just a range and it depends on if it's a newbuild contract or it's an existing fleet contract.
Our newbuilds are generally no cut contracts that we've negotiated; pretty much an industry standard you've got to really be down a long period of time.
And then in existing fleets it's a little bit less but it's usually consistent downtime performance.
In some cases as an example it could be up for two months of downtime on a continuous basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then a different topic I guess.
As you mentioned quite a few ultra-deepwater rigs in your fleet currently idled but not cold stacked.
Does that imply that those rigs are bidding on work and is there enough work or inquiries out there for eight or nine of your rigs in the next 12 to 15 months? Well clearly the market is oversupplied with a lot of capacity and then you've still got newbuilds coming to the market.
The demand does not exceed the available supply at this particular time but we're bidding a lot of our rigs on tendering that's ongoing now.
We're seeing tendering as I mentioned for availability in 2016 and now some in 2017.
So we're going to look for opportunities we're going to look for one-offs.
Like I said we're going to fight for every opportunity to get our rigs back to work so that we can weather this cyclical downturn and be poised and ready to take advantage when this market does turn and it will.
And if I may add to that – it's Esa Ikäheimonen here – I would like to just add a couple of words.
So while the marketing team are obviously fighting for opportunities out there in the marketplace we're also immediately ready to minimize OpEx to a level necessary to keep the rig available for new near-term opportunities.
So that's an important element of 2015 cost optimization and management that we're touching upon already.
And if there's no such near-term opportunity in the marketplace we are also prepared to cold stack and that's going to be a key performance area for us in 2015.
And we're very focused on that in order to make sure that in the short term we're not incurring any unnecessary expenses as a result of the challenges out there in the market.
So that's just something I wanted to add to that so that would provide a bit more comprehensive answer including the cost management piece as well.
And moving on we'll go to Dan Boyd with BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks.
You mentioned a number of times in the comments of looking for opportunities to grow out of this down cycle.
So with that in mind would you consider issuing equity in the secondary market if the price was right? Would those assets need to be contracted? And do you think you need to wait for a CEO before you would pursue anything? Yes.
Probably for myself – Esa Ikäheimonen here – we have issued equity in the past and obviously that demonstrates that it's not entirely out of question.
However what we also tried to communicate and I think we've done that quite successfully is that we do have enough near and medium-term flexibility and other levers to pull so that an equity issue at current share price levels is not very high on our list of priorities.
So in theory yes; in practice unlikely.
And that's for I would think quite understandable reasons.
We actually feel quite comfortable about our medium-term liquidity and the levers we've got to pull and continuous overperformance against our own promises in several areas.
And that looks like continuing through 2015.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then my second question would be given the rising number of idle DP rigs what are your options there? Are you aggressively pursuing rig swaps? And how many of those rigs might actually be able to be swapped with other rigs that might be cheaper to idle or cold stack? Dan that's a good question.
We're looking at everything.
We're looking at opportunities to high-grade our fleet.
We're looking at extending our current rigs.
We're looking at potentially doing two-rig packages.
I hate to go into any further detail because this is a very competitive market out there and everyone's got their magic that they're trying to work today.
So that's really about as deep as I can get into that.
Moving on we'll go to Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I just have one question.
Terry when you gave your market outlook and talked about some of the deepwater theaters where there are opportunities I heard Brazil India West Africa – I didn't hear the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
So I was wondering if you could just give your thoughts on the outlook there and if that might be one of the deepwater theaters where there might be some tenders for work starting in 2016 and 2017? I guess the thing about the Gulf of Mexico is we've got so many rigs standing by.
There is some incremental demand but we don't see a lot of it becoming meaningful until 2016.
And then there could be private discussions going on that we wouldn't want to really talk about that could tip our competitors into pursuing that.
So it's kind of difficult to talk about the near term but certainly we believe that Gulf of Mexico in the medium term is going to have some incremental demand.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And next we'll go to Angie Sedita with UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Esa you talked on and I think a number of people have asked about the ultra-deepwater rigs and the stacking.
And as Terry mentioned you have eight idle now and I believe nine more up for contract in 2015.
And it does sound like you have some opportunities in 2016 and maybe even 2017.
But what would be the thought process about cold stacking? Obviously they're very high operating cost especially if they are fully employed.
What's some of your thought process on stacking a number of these rigs? How long do think you need to have as far as a gap in between contracts? Clearly it would appear you're going to have to stack some of these rigs so can you talk about your thought process of when you would stack the rigs how long it would take and where do you think your costs would move from and to? Right Angie.
As always a very thoughtful question from your side.
There's no really black-and-white answer to this because the fleet is diverse and there are different drivers associated to most of those rigs.
But here's what I would say as a general answer to that.
First of all we've got a plan for each rig and as a matter fact we've got several plans because the market outlook and the visibility is not perfect and therefore you have to be kind of prepared to pull out plan B if A doesn't materialize.
It's all driven by the market evaluation and de-valuation provided by Terry's marketing team in terms of what's out there and how likely it is or unlikely it is that a rig that comes off contract will win a new one.
As that happens and the rig comes off contract we are immediately ready to minimize OpEx necessary to keep the rig available for the next near-term opportunity.
In some cases that may again depending on the rig and depending on the marketing evaluation and the marketability of the rig that may actually very very quickly and we're talking about days and weeks rather than months lead to a decision to cold stack because if there simply isn't an opportunity or the probability is very low incurring expenses on the rig and keeping it idle and ready for the job that doesn't come is not a very good idea.
So cold stacking in that situation might follow very quickly.
If the probability to earn a new contract is higher it makes sense to keep that rig available for that opportunity.
If it doesn't materialize again we are immediately ready to cold stack the rig and bring OpEx down as low as possible.
And as I said depending on the rig categorization which is pretty fine-tuned in our system it may be instant it may take a couple of months but we're not going to let a rig without visible marketing opportunities float idle with full OpEx for a very long period of time.
Whether it takes a week or three months really depends on the rig the market evaluation and the quality and marketability of the rig.
Just to add a little bit in the context of cold stacking it's not what a traditional cold stacking would imply for the moored fleet so this is a DP fleet.
So it's just a little bit different scenario.
You would still have a significant reduction in costs associated with that but they would be – there would have to be just a marine crew to ensure that the rigs were properly taken care of because of their DP mode but again it would be a significant cost reduction.
Thanks.
Thanks for the question Angie.
Thanks.
That helps and I certainly appreciate the challenges with stacking a DP rig and you're right.
The follow-up question – when you think about conserving cash and capital Esa do you have any ability on the two un-contracted ultra-deepwater rigs to delay those rigs as you did with the jackups? And also can those jackups be delayed any further? Another good question.
When it comes to the ultra-deepwater floaters that we've got un-contracted under construction our position currently is that those delivery windows are actually pretty attractive.
So we haven't been actively pursuing deferral of those deliveries at this moment in time.
If that becomes necessary we will obviously engage in conversations but right now the delivery windows are as they've been announced in the past and until further notice we will continue actually constructing those rigs in line with those schedules.
Those schedules were chosen actually in line with our best estimate as to how the market will evolve going forward and there's no fundamental change in our view on the market when it comes to late 2017 2018 situation.
Jackups I think we've done what needs to be done with jackups and we've actually significantly re-phased the CapEx associated to those and pushed it from 2016 until 2017 increasingly to 2018 and again that has got a positive – significantly positive impact on our liquidity and balance sheet in the short or medium term and we're quite satisfied with the outcome particularly because it didn't come at a material cost.
Moving on we'll go to J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Co.
Good morning everyone.
I just have one question and it involves the 50/50 cost savings that you mentioned between true cost savings and then lower costs due to lower activity.
I recall that you had identified a couple hundred million of cost savings in 2014 and I'm just wondering what is the incremental cost savings going to be this year that weren't necessarily included in the cost savings that you identified last year? Yeah good question.
I'd actually like to take this into the context of the $800 million margin improvement that we announced in November 2013 if that's okay because that kind of includes all of this but it's also a little bit more a holistic way of looking at it.
So the margin improvement from 2013 to 2015 was targeted at $800 million and that was a combination of revenue efficiency revenue improvement about $300 million in revenue and about $500 million- $550 million in offshore expenses out of service – or shipyard expenses and the overheads.
And I'm actually quite pleased to report that we are almost already in 2014 on the revenue piece so as a matter of fact anything more than what we've already achieved will be over and above on the revenue side of things in 2015.
On overheads we're almost always there in 2014 and we've actually exceeded the $200 million offshore and shipyard expenses so slightly ahead of that already a year ahead of time.
And if we add the 50% which indeed is the like for like and true cost reduction that we would like to get the credit for is activity driven and unfortunately more than offset by the reduction in revenue and.
If we deliver all of this in line with our plans we will have delivered more than the $800 million in cost savings only by end of 2015.
So just slightly more holistically I know I didn't answer your question exactly but I just wanted to put into the concept of our corporate target of delivering $800 million of margin improvement from one year to another or one year to the second year thereafter and just demonstrate that we've quite considerably over delivered on what we promised and we will continue to over deliver increasingly on what we've promised.
Unfortunately at the same time of course the marketplace has become very different and that means that we have to do more and more quickly than what we originally anticipated that's what we are prepared to do and I think the guidance reflects that quite well.
Okay great.
That was really helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And next we'll go to Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could maybe elaborate a little bit on kind of sources and uses of cash.
You kind of laid out your priorities: strong balance sheet investment distribution to shareholders I know you said you disagree with the Moody's downgrade but I suspect we'll see something similar from the others.
So clearly they're seeing something else out there and you guys have done a good job of high grading the fleet and of cutting costs so I feel a little bit like that's being undermined by the uncertainty about the cash flow profile and how you finance yourself over time so I think it would be really helpful to lay out a path or is that something that you necessarily can't do until you have the new CEO in place? Just any kind of color on that would be helpful.
Please stand by.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello? Mr.
Urban if you would please repeat your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Sorry.
Can you hear me now? Yeah sorry about that.
Apparently the call got dropped.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
So you talked a little bit about your liquidity and then also that you disagree with the downgrade that was out there.
And you've laid out these priorities in terms of strong balance sheet continued investment distributions to shareholders but again clearly at least one ratings agency and I suspect the others will follow that will at least disagree with that.
And you guys have done a really good job of reducing costs of high grading the fleet and improving performance.
And I think those things are kind of being undermined and overshadowed by this kind of lack of visibility on a path.
And so I'm just wondering to the extent you can can you offer us any visibility or kind of a path on sources and uses of cash over the next year or two? Or is that something that has to wait for a new CEO to be in place? Mike it's a good thoughtful question again.
I don't think we need to wait for a new CEO to confirm the financial flexibility we've got nor to actually respond to your question.
That was quite a multifaceted one.
So I'd just like to put that into a little bit of a context when it comes to ratings and our balance sheet objectives.
I think it's worth noting that we've delivered on all of our recent promises including the accelerated debt reduction that we completed by the end of last year in line with what we had communicated much earlier.
We are continuously firmly heading towards the $9 billion debt level that we've targeted for the last two or three years and we have a very healthy liquidity to start with at $5.7 billion as we speak.
We also have a lot of further optimization potential in expenditure in working capital that we have been trying to communicate here and also elsewhere.
And yes we've recently pulled additional balance sheet levers to actually further demonstrate our commitment to those credit matrices.
So when it comes to the downgrading that goes a long way to explain our language associated to how we felt about it.
So it was just disappointing.
Impact-wise there's not a major impact.
You asked about sources and uses of cash.
I'm not going to go into any sort of bridging or anything.
I'll just repeat and list the key elements of our liquidity.
So $5.7 billion of liquidity today.
I think we were fortunate or foresightful or just successful in the timing of the revolver.
With the benefit of hindsight the timing of renewing that revolver was just perfect.
We've brought down the dividend and in line with our balanced philosophy we still maintain a competitive but sustainable in the current marketplace level of dividend.
We've done the re-phasing of CapEx increasingly into 2018 and we've got more flexibility if that's what we need going forward significant operational improvements and continuing to deliver on cost reductions.
We are furthermore adding some more focus on working capital.
You realize that cash management comment that I made earlier.
And we continue to be very selective with shipyard activity.
We still need to work on Transocean Partners but I see that as a great upside given the firm long-term cash flow and contracted pipeline it's got.
So in the medium term we're quite comfortable about our liquidity.
It's a challenging marketplace out there but we do have significant flexibility at our disposal to weather the storm like I think Terry mentioned or was it Ian earlier in the prepared remarks.
So that's as far as I want to go in terms of the bridging of uses and sources.
But medium term comfortable.
Over longer term it's really determined by how the market will evolve and how long-lasting the down cycle is going to be.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay got you.
As the interim CEO – this is Ian Strachan – I can assure you that we're not standing still and we're certainly not taking time out until a new CEO comes on.
That CEO will find a company that is firing on all cylinders.
And I think you heard a pretty impressive presentation just now from Esa about how we've achieved significant overhead reductions throughout 2013 2014 and 2015.
$800 million by the end of 2015 tells you what our team is capable of.
We have unique qualities and strengths in our employees and fundamentally that's how we will deliver what we have indicated.
Inc.</span></strong> And specific to the downgrade and assuming the other agencies follow presumably in terms of any refinancings that'll just come up at the time of the refi and the potential cost implications but in the immediate term is there anything you need to do like with your credit facility if you don't have an investment-grade rating any negotiations that would have to take place with the banks? Well first of all I don't think it's a foregone conclusion that the other rating agencies follow and we'll be incrementally more disappointed if that happens given the reasons that I just mentioned.
So I focus on the Moody's conclusion only.
We don't have any onerous covenants in our existing debt agreements and that's a good starting point of course so no major headaches associated to that.
We can speculate about the potential impact if any on pricing of our future debt but given the present trading and the spreads we don't anticipate any negative impact.
But that remains to be seen of course.
And then the most tangible immediate downside has to do with the fact that we do have coupon step-up rates in some of our bond agreements in the tune of 25 basis points for a rating agency doing a one-notch downgrade and that's what Moody's just did so that will have an annual impact of about $10 million on our interest expenses; no more no less.
And moving on our next question will come from David Smith with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the question.
Just a quick housekeeping question.
I thought that the mid-water UK business was given a little under $500 million of bank debt and I was just wondering if that was – if that borrowing was contingent on a partial sale of Caledonia or if just one of the parties otherwise opted out of that? Yeah David that's a good question.
There was as a result of what we call the Caledonia separation the intended separation of that part of the business and potentially creating that separate vehicle as you remember we did obviously work in detail the capital structure for that new entity and that included a bank facility in the tune of the $500 million that you just mentioned.
But as a result of the fact that we decided not to go ahead with that separation that facility was never put in place so basically business as usual from that perspective.
That facility doesn't exist and it won't exist until further notice and until Caledonia potentially becomes a viable deal again.
All right.
I misunderstood on that.
Thank you.
And just a quick follow-up question looking at the idle assets in the U.S.
Gulf it would make sense to have some of them clustered around the Louisiana offshore oil port.
I think three of them were clustered there earlier this month but I was wondering if there are other regions where the cost of idle DP units to be minimized or if it might make sense to absorb the move cost to get a lower cost in the long-term idle time.
That's a good question.
I mean we have our rigs positioned all over the world and there's multiple areas that we use so.
And we're all conserving costs at wherever the locations for the rigs are so there's some in the U.S.
there's some in the Canary Islands there's some in Walvis Bay there's just – in the UK there are some and then there's some in Asia.
So there's just plenty of places to place the units and again we will be looking to maximize cost reductions wherever our rigs are going to be idled.
And next we'll go to Mark Brown with Global Hunter Securities.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just had a quick question on the Spitsbergen I just wanted to clarify.
What was the update on that? Yes the rig had been on suspension for a couple of months and it's been put on the suspension rate which is 75% of the current operating rate.
So she will return to work and she'll go back to her normal operating rate and we expect that to happen over the weekend.
Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on the tax rate.
You mentioned that that's going to be a little bit higher than previously expected.
Could you just clarify again what the driver of the change was? Are you referring to the guidance now Mark? Correct.
Yeah so our tax rate is a mixture of typical corporate income taxes and diem taxes in certain jurisdictions where we operate.
And what happens when our pre-tax income declines our effective tax rate typically goes up because we've got that firm diem tax component having a higher proportional impact on the effective tax rate so that's what you see happening so the read-through of course is not unsurprisingly that pre-tax is reducing somewhat in 2015 and that doesn't surprise anybody given the context of the marketplace and the challenges therein but that's basically what we're trying to communicate.
A moderate increase in ETR as a result of the fact that the mix basically between diem tax and typical corporate income tax will be different to what it was for instance in 2014.
Moving on we'll go to Jason Gilbert with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
It's actually Matt Russell filling in for Jason here.
Thanks for taking the question.
Not to harp on the ratings too much but have you had discussions with S&amp;P post the board's dividend proposal and now that you do have the Moody's announcement is there any intention to strongly defend the rating cut at S&amp;P beyond what you've done thus far? We've got a really active engagement with all the rating agencies.
We keep them periodically up to date and particularly if we've got something meaningful and material and impactful to talk about we talk about that on the spot and without a delay.
So our engagement is extremely frequent and they know exactly what has happened and they are well aware of our plans and forecasts and our thoughts.
I don't see any particular need to intensify those engagements as result of the Moody's situation.
S&amp;P and Fitch will do their own evaluation.
They'll evaluate our position our balance sheet and our forward plans based on their own modeling and conclude on that basis.
So we continue with business as usual.
We will engage very actively we'll be transparent as we've always been and they will conclude when they will conclude.
Right.
And then back to one of the earlier questions in terms of being opportunistic in this market.
How do you view the opportunity for M&amp;A here and potential to accelerate the (58:13) fleet? Good question.
I kind of expected that someday would ask that.
Everybody's talking about consolidation and M&amp;A and all that exciting stuff.
I should say that first and foremost we focus on maximizing value of what we already have and that's the core of our message here.
Consolidation is a possibility but it's only a possibility and it's very difficult actually meaningless to speculate too much and as always there are serious challenges most notably regarding the valuation.
So I think there's moderately improved likelihood of something like that happening but at the same time the challenges are pretty much unchanged.
And therefore speculating with M&amp;A is probably a waste of our time but there could be some consolidation later on in the industry but it might take a little bit deeper down cycle.
Can I just add here you recall how Transocean has performed in the past.
The downturn is clearly a problem for all of us but coming out of this downturn we expect there to be very – a lot of opportunities.
And as a historically natural consolidator we aim to look at those very seriously and we are positioned to do so.
You can think in the last ten years of what has happened the last 15 years of Transocean but I think again as Esa has said it's idle to speculate about that right now.
We're really focusing on the blocking and tackling and getting through this downturn to be in a position to look at all these opportunities that will arise.
And we'll go to Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Hey.
Thank you for the follow-up.
We've covered all the CapEx flexibility questions except for I think the biggest one which is regarding the drillship at Chevron which is really your biggest chunk of growth CapEx.
Have there been any discussions with those customers to delay those rigs? Ian that's a good question.
We're always in discussions in this type of the market for what can we do and is there some opportunities but as of today there's been no decisions made on that.
So there's nothing that we can actually share with the market at this point.
Okay.
It's not entirely implausible that those might scoot to the right? I think that you would guess that the customers are talking about the art of the possible of all of their business so I wouldn't say that it wouldn't be unlikely but I'm just saying that at this point we're not planning at this point to do anything.
Understood.
Thanks.
And that's all the questions we have at this time.
I'll turn it back to our presenter Mr.
Thad Vayda for any additional or closing comments.
Thanks everyone for participation on the call today.
We are available as always after this call to respond to any questions you might have and we look forward to chatting with you again when we report our first quarter 2015 results.
Have a good day.
And once again that does conclude today's conference.
We'd like to thank everyone for their participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q1 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Alicia.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules including reconciliations and disclosures regarding non-GAAP financial measures are posted on the company's web site at deepwater.com.
Joining me on this morning's call are Jeremy Thigpen President and Chief Executive Officer; Esa Ikäheimonen Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
During the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Such statements are based upon the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to our SEC filings for more information regarding our forward-looking statements including the risks and uncertainties that could impact our future results.
Also please note that the company undertakes no duty to update or revise forward-looking statements.
Finally to give more people an opportunity to participate in this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Jeremy Thigpen.
Jeremy? Thank you Thad and a warm welcome to our employees customers investors and analyst who may be participating on today's call.
Before we discuss the quarter's results I'd like to take a moment to thank the Board of Directors of Transocean for entrusting me with this incredible responsibility and Ian Strachan for his leadership as interim CEO.
I'd also like to thank the employees and customers that I've met thus far for their unbelievably warm reception.
I look forward to meeting more of you in the very near future as I embark on a tour of our operating hubs around the world.
Albeit my 16th day on the job I can tell you that I am truly excited and honored to be here.
As many of you may know I spent most of my career in various capacities at National Oilwell Varco.
As Transocean was one of NOV's top customers I had the privilege of seeing firsthand the company's commitment to safety innovation and operational excellence which are values that I fully respect embrace and support.
Since arriving at Transocean I have been inspired by the talented enthusiastic and dedicated team of employees that make up this great company and I'm delighted that I now have the opportunity to work side-by-side with the best people in the offshore drilling industry.
I fully recognize that market conditions are challenging however I will work closely with our customers and the Transocean team to continue to differentiate the company by efficiently delivering superior customer service and best-in-class operating performance.
Through a heightened focus in these areas we will reinforce and enhance Transocean's premiere position in the offshore drilling industry.
Now to the results.
As you saw from our earnings press release we reported another solid quarter with adjusted net income of $398 million or $1.10 per diluted share.
Including asset impairments some of which are related to the scrapping of non-core assets net loss attributable to controlling interest was $483 million or $1.33 per diluted share.
Our first quarter operational performance demonstrates the company's significant progress on revenue efficiency optimization of out of service time and related expenses and our onshore and offshore cost reduction initiatives.
Our fleet revenue efficiency was 95.9% and ultra-deepwater efficiency was an outstanding 97.2% the highest since mid-2009.
This level of performance results from steps that the company has taken to improve maintenance and operations policies procedures and processes and the work that we've done with our supply partners to reduce equipment related downtime.
The company's operations teams including our rig crews are to be commended for their persistence and dedication to minimizing downtime on our rigs which benefits our customers and our shareholders alike.
In addition to recognizable improvements in revenue efficiency we continue to manage our onshore and offshore costs through the optimization of overhead and maintenance expenses.
As you would expect we are actively consolidating and better aligning our shore-based infrastructure with our active fleet which is driving considerable costs out of our business.
We're also doing a much better job of planning organizing and executing our in-service maintenance as well as our shipyard repairs resulting in reductions in out of service time.
And we're continuing to be extremely selective and disciplined when it comes to shipyard expenditures where we are rephasing and deferring nonessential shipyard projects.
It is important to stress that while we will continue to be near fanatical in our approach to cost management and waste elimination under no circumstances will we allow these efforts to adversely impact the safe and environmentally responsible operations of our rigs.
As a direct result of the company's improved revenue efficiency and cost management efforts our first quarter operating margin which excludes depreciation and G&amp;A expense ranks among the best in recent quarters at 47% a 550 basis point sequential improvement.
In addition to improving our operating performance we're also taking tough but sensible decisions to rapidly stack rigs for which we see no appropriate near-term opportunities and responsibly scrapping rigs that we see as economically and commercially nonviable in a cyclical recovery.
Consistent with our asset strategy to date we've announced our intent to scrap 19 floaters and we will continue to evaluate the composition of our fleet as the market unfolds.
So while the near-term outlook which Terry will address in a few moments is certain challenging I believe the company's first quarter results provide clear evidence of a Transocean team focused on improving those things within its control to best position the company for the eventual recovery.
I'd like to thank our employees around the world for achieving this notable result.
Before handing it over to Esa I would like to remind shareholders of our annual general meeting to be held next Friday May 15 in Cham Switzerland.
We recommend that shareholders vote affirmatively for each of the company's proposals.
If you've not already done so I encourage you to read our proxy and vote your shares.
Esa will now provide you with additional comments on the company's financial performance after which Terry will provide some further perspective on the market.
We will open up to questions thereafter.
Esa? Thank you Jeremy and good day to everyone.
I will discuss the key elements for our Q1 results and then make some clarifications to our guidance.
For the first quarter of 2015 we reported a net loss attributable to controlling interest of $483 million or $1.33 per diluted share.
The loss includes $881 million or $2.43 per share in net unfavorable items including a non-cash charge of $481 million for impairment of the deepwater floater asset class and as previously announced a further $393 million impairment of non-core floaters that we intend to scrap.
Excluding these items our adjusted net income was $398 million or $1.10 per diluted share a 16% improvement versus the prior quarter.
Our first quarter results reflect our continued success in three areas of intense focus: utilization revenue efficiency and cost management.
Consolidated revenues decreased by $194 million sequentially to $2.04 billion due mostly to reduced activity associated with asset disposals and stacked and idle rigs.
This was mitigated by increased utilization and improved operating performance.
Fleet utilization was 79% up from 73% in the prior quarter.
Revenue efficiency was 95.9% in the period versus 95.3% in Q4.
Early second quarter indications suggest that the operating performance of our rigs continues to be better than our 2015 guidance of 95%.
First quarter operating and maintenance expenses decreased by $226 million or 17% to $1.08 billion demonstrating a further acceleration of our cost management efforts including the optimization of maintenance and out of service costs and continued success in reducing the cost of idle rigs as they are released from contracts.
The quarter was also impacted by the disposal of non-core floaters.
G&amp;A decreased by $16 million to $46 million primarily due to certain expenses associated with our cost management initiatives and some other items recorded in Q4 that were not repeated in this reporting period.
As evidence of our success in managing our costs we estimate that we have achieved on an annual basis in excess of approximately $900 million in structural improvements due to our efforts over the past couple of years.
The first quarter annual effective tax rate was 25.8% versus the full-year 2014 annual effective tax rate of 18.7%.
Recall that Transocean's annual effective tax rate will vary based on a number of factors one of which is the overall level of pre-tax income.
In other words as pre-tax earnings decrease our annual effective tax rate generally increases.
We ended the quarter with approximately $2.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents largely in line with Q4.
Cash flow from operations declined by $40 million to $526 million.
CapEx decreased by $117 million to $201 million due to lower project expenditure on the existing fleet in line with our ongoing optimization of capital spending.
I will now spend a few moments updating our 2015 outlook which reflects our confidence in continuing to achieve operational improvements and further reduce our costs.
Given favorable fleet operating performance throughout 2014 and so far this year we still anticipate achieving revenue efficiency of 95%.
Other revenues which primarily include reimbursables are expected to be between $125 million and $140 million.
We now anticipate that our full-year operating and maintenance expenses will be between $3.8 billion and $4.1 billion.
This represents a substantial incremental reduction versus our full-year 2014 O&amp;M costs and our initial expectations for this year again clearly highlighting the success of our cost management efforts across the company.
The decrease in expected 2015 O&amp;M costs is partly due to scrapping of non-core assets and a material reduction in expenses associated with stacked floaters.
We will continue to scrap non-core rigs that we conclude are no longer economically viable over the longer term as well as quickly move rigs to stacked condition as soon as it becomes clear that they have limited options for near-term follow-on work.
To the latter point we continue to optimize the cost of stacking ultra-deepwater rigs and have made significant progress in this regard.
Indeed cost-effective stacking of these highly capable ultra-deepwater rigs is a key near-term issue for the industry.
We will also maintain a disciplined approach to shipyard expenditures deferring discretionary projects associated with rigs that do not have firm backlog.
As Jeremy already mentioned we are performing an increasing amount of project work scope while rigs are in service reducing the frequency of shipyards and other planned out of service time.
A very good example of this is the recent five-year SBS on the Discoverer Luanda which was completed in an industry-leading out of service time of nine days avoiding up to several weeks of additional out of service time.
We expect that cost management initiatives and lower activity levels will each contribute approximately 50% to the estimated total year-over-year reduction in O&amp;M costs and will continue to improve profitability and underlying cash flows all else equal.
Due to seasonality as well as the number of planned shipyard days as noted in our recent fleet status report we continue to expect O&amp;M costs in the first half of 2015 to comprise up to 55% of the total for the year.
Regarding 2016 the company is currently committed to only 48 days of planned out of service time.
We remain focused on a reduced cost structure that aligns with lower anticipated activity levels.
We expect depreciation expense to be between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion a slight increase in the low end of our prior expectation that reflects a reduction in the salvage value of certain drilling rigs.
We forecast our G&amp;A expenses in 2015 to decline to between $175 million and $195 million a further reduction of some 12% compared with our earlier guidance this reflects our continuous focus on overheads across organization to align with the smaller fleet.
We expect interest expense net of interest income and capitalized interest to be between $430 million and $450 million.
Capitalized interest and interest income are expected to be approximately $130 million and $20 million respectively.
Our 2015 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is expected to be within the range of 23% to 27%.
This expectation reflects an updated forecast for each of our rigs as well as includes known changes in legislation.
As a further reminder as pre-tax income decreases the annual effective tax rate will generally increase.
We now expect our 2015 capital expenditures to be slightly lower at about $1.7 billion including $1.3 billion associated with our new build program.
There's no change in our long-term objective of reducing gross spend levels to below $9 billion.
We will however take steps as and when necessary to ensure appropriate liquidity and balance sheet flexibility for an uncertain market.
Our targeted liquidity range of $3.25 billion to $4.25 billion is unchanged and includes our undrawn $3 billion revolving credit facility.
At the end of the first quarter our total liquidity was approximately $5.7 billion.
We're also taking incremental measures to optimize our medium-term capital obligations.
As you know our Board of Directors proposed a significantly reduced dividend of $0.60 per share for shareholder consideration at the upcoming AGM.
Additionally we have further deferred the delivery of our five newbuild high-specification jackups by 18 to 20 months each.
This is in addition to the six-month delay announced previously.
This rephasing reduces our 2016 and 2017 capital obligations by approximately $210 million and $360 million respectively.
And as I already said we will take more steps as necessary to ensure that we retain adequate balance sheet flexibility.
Transocean Partners remains an important component of Transocean's financial structure and balance sheet flexibility.
However as you know the value of the company's units have along with those of other similar companies declined with oil prices.
This in conjunction with an increase in the cost of debt capital presents obvious albeit likely short-term challenges to the execution of drops that enhance the value of both Transocean and Partners.
We will keep you up-to-date on our plans in this regard.
To conclude we're very pleased with our recent successes around mitigating the reduced activity.
Even so you should expect us to continue to aggressively manage our costs improve our operating performance and optimize our capital expenditures to increase our free cash flow.
This finally concludes my comments and I will now hand over to Terry to provide you with an update on market conditions.
Terry? Thanks Esa and good day to everyone.
The market continues to be very challenging.
The low commodity price environment corresponding reduction in customer budgets and overcapacity in the global floater and jackup fleet are negatively impacting utilization and pricing in every market around the world.
There's currently very little visible 2015 demand and over the last quarter only a few fixtures have been executed in all asset classes.
Since our last call we added firm term on the Sedco Express Transocean Prospect and Galaxy II and are in discussions to conclude more contracts shortly.
Our backlog as of April 16 was $19.9 billion which provides a foundation to help us weather the storm until commodity prices are at levels that better support our customers' offshore programs and demand for our rigs.
In the near to medium term we expect ultra-deepwater day rates and utilization to remain under pressure.
Customers are keenly focused on cost-cutting efforts and are searching for opportunities to further reduce their 2015 and 2016 spending.
As we mentioned in February we continue to advance discussions with multiple customers to capitalize on incremental term and maximize the utilization of particularly our higher-specification rigs.
We expect these mutually beneficial arrangements will deliver more efficient performance at an optimized cost to our customers.
Overall our entire fleet continues to deliver top-tier drilling performance but the revenue efficiency of our higher-specification units has been particularly strong.
We congratulate our operations teams for their first class efforts in affording us the opportunity to showcase their successes.
Two notable examples are the Transocean Spitsbergen and the Deepwater Invictus.
The Spitsbergen beat the drilling curve on the last well by over 25% for Statoil in Norway.
And the Invictus is delivering newbuild best-in-class for initial well drilled for days per thousand foot by a significant margin in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
The differentiating performance provides value to our customers.
The safe and efficient operations result in more wells in earlier production all else equal.
Despite the unfavorable market conditions we do see green shoot opportunities emerging for 2016 and 2017 programs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico South America West Africa the Black Sea and India.
Indeed recent discoveries in Romania U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and India are increasing the likelihood that we may see incremental rig demand emerge from these regions in the medium-term.
Industry overcapacity continues to be a problem.
However there has been some good news.
In addition to the recent announcement that seven newbuild Sete rigs will be canceled we expect that half of the announced 28 rigs are unlikely to be built and the remainder will probably be constructed over a longer timeframe than originally anticipated.
In addition ultra-deepwater newbuild deliveries are being delayed and the financial challenges of some of the drilling contractors has led and may lead to rigs being indefinitely stacked and it also represents in our view an additional indication of a gradual correcting trend in the global rig oversupply situation.
These developments reinforce our comments of last quarter suggesting that the growth in supply of ultra-deepwater drilling units will likely slow in the near-term.
Market utilization for the ultra-deepwater global fleet is around 90% largely due to the rapid stacking of rigs as they roll off contract.
There are approximately 17 ultra-deepwater rigs idle and available for prompt activity around the world including several of our rigs which we are actively marketing.
We expect to have some positive news soon.
As mentioned earlier there are several opportunities around the globe for programs starting in 2016 and 2017.
Although this is not new news generally challenging market conditions are expected to persist over the next 12 months and we anticipate extended periods of inter-contract idle time and significant competition for the limited ultra-deepwater tendering opportunities available.
Deepwater and mid-water markets follow similar trends as the ultra-deepwater and remain weak.
We will continue to see higher specification units compete for these lower spec jobs and in turn push the older less-efficient assets to the beach and in many cases ultimately to the scrapyard.
In this cyclical downturn we believe it's generally uneconomical to maintain some of the older less-capable equipment in a long-term cold stacked condition to preserve optionality when the market improves.
There has been very little fixture activity in the mid-water floater markets since year end but we do continue to participate in tenders in India and Southeast Asia.
The harsh environment markets are also characterized by slow contracting activity and a few new fixtures.
The impact of low oil price continues to pressure customers to execute contract terminations and suspensions in Norway and the UK in addition to canceling and delaying programs.
As outlined below 2015 will be challenging for the UK and Norway and we expect the market to remain oversupplied in the near-term.
We are participating in a few tenders and direct negotiations for harsh environment work starting in 2016 and 2017.
So we remain confident in the long-term viability of these markets and the unique assets required to operate in these arenas.
During 2015 we will have five floaters available in the UK and Norway.
And as you might expect we are seeking opportunities globally for our harsh environment units.
As noted in our last fleet status report the Transocean Prospect will now work beyond the end of April for another several months at a rate of $298 000 per day.
The premium jackup market is exhibiting signs of pricing pressure with lower rates for newbuilds expected in Asia and West Africa.
Day rates on the existing fleet continue to moderate with a large influx of uncontracted newbuilds challenging the less capable rigs.
That said we expect that the newbuilds being offered by established contractors with a solid operating history will be preferred by our customers all else being equal.
Our customers remain confident in the long-term outlook for offshore oil and gas drilling citing anticipated increases in global energy consumption and their ultimate mandate to replace reserves and increase production in a cost-effective high return manner.
As in past cycles the lack of drilling by customers is not sustainable and the inevitable catch-up is likely to result in a surprising rapid and robust increase in demand for rigs.
In summary we believe the trifecta of rig retirements delivery delay and/or cancellation of newbuilds as well as the various rig supply disruptions in Brazil can only aid in balancing the rig market.
That said a bit of help is also needed from the commodity price and customer demand.
We will continue to position our fleet to take advantage of the upturn when it arrives with a focus on high-grading the fleet.
We have the financial flexibility unmatched operational and engineering strength and passionate and talented teams that will help ensure we emerge from this downturn in the strongest possible position.
This concludes my overview of the markets so I will turn it back to you Thad.
Thanks Terry.
Now we'll open it up to Q&amp;A and just as a reminder one question and one follow up.
Alicia go ahead and take the first caller in queue.
We'll go to Ian McPherson of Simmons.
Hi.
Thank you.
I think first of all we all need to recalibrate our revenue efficiency modeling.
Good quarter there but I was curious if there's anything in the way of early termination settlements reflected in your contract drilling revenues in Q1.
If not will we see those in your revenues going forward? Hello.
Good morning Ian.
How are you? Hi Terry.
In the first quarter we didn't have the early termination fee that is due on the – you're talking about the Sedco Energy.
We're still working with the customer to conclude that and we should have that announced shortly but I would just remind you that we are again in discussions with our customers where we have a larger fleet to be able to do some blending and extending and put together some very interesting packages in order to capitalize on additional terms.
So I would say that there might be an opportunity where we can capitalize on bits and pieces of the type of backlog that we have remaining available to us.
Okay.
Thanks.
And as a follow-up question Esa that's an awfully large reduction to your O&amp;M guidance and I wonder if you could provide some context or framework in terms of what that – what incremental level of stackings or scrappings might be implied from that so we can adjust our revenues in tandem with your cost guidance? Yeah thanks Ian.
Good question.
That would take a while to go through that in too much details and it's not part of our disclosure but I'll do some bridging in terms of what generates the $600 million to $700 million or close to 15% reduction in guidance.
And you're right the number one item has to do with the volume of our business.
So we are now expecting less rigs than we did three or four months ago to get re-contracted this year.
It's by no means the only driver here and not necessarily even the dominant one.
Second big item here as part of that bridging is that we've worked really hard and I think we've mentioned that before in the last six months or so to find ways to reduce the transit periods between operations and stacking and subsequently scrapping if that's required and that's a big driver as well.
So finding more cost-effective solutions and finding ways to accelerate scrapping and stack rigs at a lower level of cost is a big driver there.
And we are starting to master that art and that's taken a while but we're getting there definitely.
Third sizable driver is some of the choices regarding our periodic maintenance that's usually flagged as CapEx but a lot of our periodic survey activity actually gets expensed and that's also a significant cost driver.
And then finally which is the most pleasing element of it all has to do with the new wave in cost savings so that includes overheads that includes better contribution from supply chain that includes more scrutiny on the way we do maintenance and what we do in that arena.
So really it's a mixed bag that actually adds up to a sizable number.
And it doesn't stop there.
There's more that we can do and we will do more but that's it for 2015 in terms of our ability to provide guidance right now.
We'll take our next question from J.B.
Lowe of Cowen &amp; Company.
Good morning everyone.
Jeremy congratulations.
Welcome aboard.
It's going to be fun.
Thanks J.B.
I appreciate it.
No problem.
My first question is a general question about your overall fleet size.
As you guys are paring down your fleet with stacking and retirements how do you view what your fleet is going to look like on the other end? How are you going to build it back up to what you see it being? And what's the breakdown between floaters and jackups that you're seeing? Good morning J.B.
How are you doing? I'm well.
Thanks Terry.
We're going through the process of high-grading our fleet and certainly when we see opportunities for instance on the deepwater and mid-water asset classes of our fleet our asset strategy originally was to remove these from our fleet however method that was available to us at the time.
But we're going to continue to do that and high-grade and obviously I would let Jeremy talk about his plans of being able to put us in a position of new opportunities.
But on the other side I think you're going to see certainly our high grading fleet continuing and we will be able to capitalize and when the market does turn on the optionality of certainly our fifth-generation fleet too that are currently idle at the moment but we certainly expect that we will be able to have that fleet all put back to work.
Yes.
J.B.
to elaborate on that we've seen in land and we've certainly seen in offshore now that newer more efficient technology wins the day and those are the types of rigs that get the contracts get the better day rates and so we have been moving towards that over the last couple of years and you'll see that continue.
One of the good things about a market like this is that it helps to expedite that process by retiring some of the older technology that's no longer in demand and so I think you'll see over time that you'll see much a more technologically advanced and more efficient fleet going forward.
All right.
Thanks for that.
Just as a quick follow-up I know this is kind of a moving target but given the biddable demand you're seeing in 2016 on the floater side what do think the actual rig count demand would look like to be in 2016 given the drop off we've seen? I think that around 270 floaters active right now or contracted right now.
Where do you think that could kind of shake out next year? I think that if you look at the projections and you look at all the various research that is going on the numbers that we are seeing or talking about today and it's hard to make that projection.
Right? Because it's a moving target and the customers can continue to slide it to the right but we can see somewhere in the range of between 220 and 230 and that's certainly we're optimistic in those numbers.
But if all the demand came out that we currently see or that we know that our customers have on their books then that kind of would be the range that you would think they could do but it's going to again depend on how well they are in their cost-cutting efforts and certainly their confidence in the commodity price.
One thing I'd add to that is we're hopeful but were not preparing for an uptick in the market.
We're kind of preparing for this lower for longer and while we certainly hope to see contracts surface and opportunities surface next year we're preparing for some pretty challenging times in front of us.
So upgrading the fleet right-sizing the fleet right-sizing the organization to support what we think is going to be lower activity.
We'll take our next question from Jud Bailey of Wells Fargo.
Thanks.
Good morning.
You mentioned Esa optimizing your stacking costs on your DP rigs.
Could you maybe go into a little more detail on I guess number one what you've been able to do to optimize the cost and give you as a frame of reference on where you're able to get those costs down to for a stacked DP asset? Yes.
I can give you a range that's the best I can give because not all rigs are similar.
The low-end of that range is probably somewhere around $50 000 a bit more than that right now and at that the higher end of that range might be as high as $85 000 $90 000 a day.
So you can figure out an average somewhere in between.
It's an area where we've made considerable progress in the recent past and the numbers keep coming down and we keep finding better ways of sort of lukewarm stacking the rig if that's the right way of describing what we're trying to achieve.
And on a really good day those numbers are reasonably manageable.
But it is still considerable burn of course and a big area and a big issue for the entire industry in the near- term.
And we've put a lot of effort into that and we will continue optimizing and on a rig by rig basis do absolutely everything we can to keep it as low as possible.
Okay.
What is also important and I kind of referred to that already is the ability to bring the rig down from operations through a period of idleness to a stacking condition as quickly as possible because that does reduce the burn very considerably.
When you get it down to that let's say $50 000 or in that low range the ability to bring – or an expense required to bring the rig back into service do feel like you're able to do that in a relatively short and cost-efficient manner or is it going to require more time and expenditure when you get the cost down to those levels? It depends on a couple of things one is the length of the period during which the rig is stacked.
The longer it is the more likely it is that the reactivation is actually going to be a relatively costly exercise.
But this generally speaking is another area of optimization for us and we are anticipating and we are trying to find the most fit for purpose solutions for every rig that we've got stacked in preparation for the market to recover.
So there's several elements one is accelerating the downgrading of the status of the rig to a stacked condition.
Two is keeping the cost as low as possible and then anticipating and preparing for the reactivation and do it as cost efficiently as anyone ever can.
But that varies a lot the last piece varies a lot.
We'll go next to David Smith of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thank you.
Congratulations on the very strong revenue numbers.
I was hoping you could remind us about the components of the fleet segment revenue that maybe aren't apparent in the fleet status reported day rates.
I think there might be some bonus revenue maybe how things like demobilization fees would flow through? I think actually the breakdown of our revenue on a dollars per day per rig class is available on our website so that's the best source of that information in addition to our 10-Q which provides some transparency on that.
So I don't really have those numbers in front of me here and I'm not sure whether any of my colleagues do.
so it's a little bit difficult for us to respond to that.
Sure.
Okay.
I guess also I was wondering the follow-up if there was any interest from your side and/or the client side regarding potentially deferring the delivery of any of the five contracted drill ships under construction? Some of our – and the ones that are contracted I assume that's what you're talking about some of our customers have expressed some interest in and we're looking at what does that mean for us? How could that possibly play out? So there are conversations ongoing but there has been nothing that's been executed to date.
We'll go next to Vivek Pal of Jefferies.
Yeah good morning guys.
Could you please talk a little bit about your cash burn for 2015 after the first quarter which was I think little ahead of expectations? The Street I believe has you burning about $750 million in cash this year on top of the $1 billion in debt maturity.
Earlier you had mentioned that you're going to use cash on hand to fund this.
Has that changed? And next year is going to be a little more challenging? If you can elaborate on your strategy and how to kind of meet your debt maturities and funding of the cash burn? Is a possibility of a secure debt or any monetizing of your contracts? It's Esa Ikäheimonen here.
I'm just writing the questions down so that I can cover them all.
Okay.
So the current situation is that obviously there's some element of lacking visibility as to where the market is headed so we're monitoring that very closely.
Our starting point is really strong for 2015 and I would expect that actually the analysts will probably update their liquidity forecast and cash flow forecast for this year based on our strong quarter as well as our guidance so that's an element of the starting point so there might be a change that we will see shortly.
That's up to them of course and hopefully that will be in line with our thinking as much as possible.
Right now we've got close to $3 billion of cash and our cash generation cash conversion is obviously improving all the time so our cash generation throughout 2015 is expected to be quite good.
We don't have massive amounts of capital obligations in 2015 and you're right that we've got $900 million of repayments due towards the end of the year.
We have also demonstrated our ability to reschedule yard payments and we do very little in terms of existing rigs and shipyard expenditure so we can and we will defer and eliminate CapEx as and when it makes sense.
So there's quite a lot of short-term as well as medium-term flexibility.
That's what I'm saying and that gives us options.
So this year cash flow strong enough liquidity very strong to start with; I should mention the $3 billion revolver as well and further flexibility in different areas.
So we've got options available and we do have multiple sources of capital readily available as well if our medium/longer-term views will start devolving to a direction where we feel we need to accelerate some of that capital raising.
So right now we're comfortable we're confident in saying that options do exist and one of those options is we simply finance that debt repayment from existing cash reserves.
You asked about secured debt instruments: definitely it's part the potential funding mix going forward there's no question about it.
The pricing currently is very attractive in comparison with unsecured instruments so when it comes to management of our debt portfolio that is an option.
And I think finally you asked about potential monetization of our existing contracts? There's a reason why we established Transocean Partners and that is as a primary vehicle for us to monetize our contracts but there are other ways of doing that so we're obviously developing opportunities and options so that we would be in a position where we can optimize those and as and when needed pull the right one.
That was very insightful.
A quick question: you mentioned $3 billion in cash? You a $2.7 billion so in the 45 days since the end of the first quarter you have added another $300 million or was it was just rounding from $2.7 billion to $3 billion? It was rounding from the cash position today to $3 billion so as I said we're converting cash pretty effectively as we speak and therefore we've seen a little improvement since the end of the quarter.
Not quite $300 million I should mention.
This does conclude our Q&amp;A portion for today.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Vayda for any additional or closing comments.
Thanks very much for your participation today.
We're available for any follow-up questions you might have for the balance of the afternoon.
We look forward to chatting with you again when we report our second quarter results.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Transocean Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to that Thad Vayda.
Please go ahead sir.
Investor Relations and Treasurer</strong> Thank you Katherine.
Good day and welcome to Transocean's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules including reconciliations and disclosures regarding non-GAAP financial measures are posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
Joining me on this morning's call are Jeremy Thigpen President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Mey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
During the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Such statements are based upon the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to our SEC filings for more information regarding our forward-looking statements including the risks and uncertainties that could impact our future results.
Also please note that the company undertakes no duty to update or revise forward-looking statements.
Finally to give more participants an opportunity to speak on this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up question.
Thank you very much.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeremy Thigpen.
Jeremy? Thank you Thad and a warm welcome to our employees customers investors and analysts participating in today's call.
Before we discuss the quarter's results I'd like to take a moment to publicly welcome Mark Mey to Transocean.
I've known Mark for a number of years and I'm very pleased to have the opportunity to finally work with him.
As you already know Mark brings extensive industry and leadership experience to the CFO role and he's already made a meaningful and positive impact on the Transocean team.
I'd also like to take a moment to remind our listeners that during the quarter we reached two important Macondo-related settlement agreements with the plaintiff's steering committee and with BP.
These agreements together cover almost all outstanding claims against Transocean arising from the April 20 2010 Macondo well incident in the Gulf of Mexico.
The agreements provides substantial closure to five years of litigation and arguably the most challenging chapter in the company's history.
Though this is not the end of all Macondo-related litigation we have put behind us what we consider to be the significant financial exposures.
Moving forward we will continue our efforts to resolve any residual exposure in the same efficient and successful manner.
Now on to the results.
We reported another outstanding quarter with adjusted net income of $408 million or $1.11 per diluted share on about $1.9 billion in revenues.
Including the impairment of the Midwater Floater asset class and the retirement of non-core assets net income attributable to controlling interest was $342 million or $0.93 per diluted share.
Mark will take you through the figures in more detail shortly.
Needless to say we are very pleased with the results as our second quarter financial performance clearly demonstrates the continued success of the company's cost management and operational improvement initiatives.
Indeed total fleet revenue efficiency in the period was an impressive 97.3% up from 95.9% in the prior quarter including 97.2% on our ultra-deepwater rigs.
This high level of operating performance results from steps that the company has taken to enhance maintenance programs to reduce subsea equipment-related downtime as well as downtime associated with other critical rig components.
I commend our operations teams and rig crews for their hard work and dedication to supporting our customers in the delivery of their operational and financial objectives.
In addition to the excellent revenue efficiency results we continue to improve our cost structure through the optimization of overhead and maintenance expenses.
The entire organization is intently focused on more effectively and efficiency supporting the fleet.
In fact as part of our efforts to aggressively manage our costs and eliminate waste we've commissioned cross-functional teams to actively analyze every element of our business to ensure that we are generating value with each dollar invested.
We are also doing an excellent job of planning organizing and executing shipyard repairs and in-service maintenance where we have taken a fresh approach to completing work that has historically required out-of-service downtime.
In addition to completing more maintenance during offshore operations which improves uptime for our customers we are canceling or deferring non-essential projects and we're accomplishing all of this while driving several new health safety and environment initiatives that have resulted in a continued reduction in our rate of incidents.
Although our second quarter results were negatively impacted by reduced activity the company's improved revenue efficiency and cost management efforts still yielded a second quarter operating margin excluding the favorable Macondo-related settlements depreciation and G&amp;A expense of 48%.
This is up about 100 basis points sequentially highlighting another solid quarterly performance as we navigate this challenging market.
I'd like to extend my sincere appreciation to our employees around the world for achieving this notable result.
Since the last call we've classified the GSF Celtic Sea and the Transocean Amirante as held for sale.
The Amirante will be recycled in an environmentally responsible manner.
The Celtic Sea will either be sold for use in a non-drilling capacity or recycled.
Excluding the Celtic Sea we have indicated our intent to scrap a total of 20 floaters and on a go-forward we will continue to evaluate our rigs on a case-by-case basis and will take the decisions necessary to ensure that the company emerges from the downturn with the most competitive fleet in the industry.
We also recently announced that we amended our construction contacts with Jurong to delay the delivery of the two new-build ultra-deepwater floaters by 24 months.
The two drill ships are now expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2020.
The delays reduce our capital expenditures in the medium term and provide additional flexibility while still allowing us to continue to high-grade the fleet.
We ended the quarter with a cash balance of $3.8 billion representing a $1.1 billion increase over the previous quarter.
In addition to including most Macondo-related insurance proceeds and other settlement funds the cash balance reflects improvements in the company's underlying cash flow generation.
We all recognize that the current market is challenging and unfortunately it seems likely to remain this way through 2016.
Regardless Transocean will continue to build on a strong foundation which includes at $18.6 billion the industry's largest backlog the largest fleet of competitive high-specification floaters an experienced and dedicated team and excellent liquidity which provides considerable flexibility to not only weather this downturn but to capitalize on opportunities that will likely present themselves.
In summary the company's second quarter results provide clear evidence of a Transocean team focused on managing those things within our control to permanently improve the company's competitiveness and position us for the industry recovery.
More specifically we are actively working to further strengthen and solidify our customer relationships eliminate waste and cost from our business and high-grade our fleet.
I will now hand it over to Mark who will provide you with additional comments on the company's financial performance.
Terry will then provide an update on the market and then we will open it up for questions.
Mark? Thank you Jeremy and good morning and good afternoon to all.
Let me begin by saying that I'm delighted to address you from my new seat at Transocean.
This is an exciting opportunity in the midst of a very challenging time for the industry but Transocean is very well positioned to navigate the severe downturn and thrive when the macro environment improves in the future.
Let me also thank the Transocean employees that I've met thus far for their warm welcome to the organization.
During today's call I plan to briefly recap the second quarter results provide an update on our balance sheet and liquidity position and update our cost cutters for the third quarter and the remainder of 2015.
For the second quarter 2015 we reported net income attributable to controlling interests of $342 million or $0.93 per diluted share.
That income includes $66 million or $0.18 per diluted share in net unfavorable items including a non-cash charge of $653 million for impairment of the Midwater Floater asset class.
And as previously announced a further $144 million impairment for non-core floaters that we intend to scrap.
The impairments are offset by $735 million of favorable net items associated with the Macondo-related settlement agreements and insurance recoveries.
Excluding these items our adjusted net income was $408 million or $1.11 per diluted share.
Moving now to operating results.
Consolidated revenues decreased by $159 million sequentially to $1.9 billion due mostly to low utilization which was partly offset by higher revenue efficiency.
As mentioned by Jeremy revenue efficiency was excellent at 97.3% up from 95.9% in the prior quarter.
The outstanding revenue efficiency also reflects bonuses earned with exceptional operating performance on seven ultra-deepwater floaters two deepwater and one midwater floater.
We also recognized about $59 000 million in contract termination fees associated with Sedco Energy and the Transocean Spitsbergen in the period.
These fees appear in other revenue.
The quarter's results were unfavorably impacted by a decline in fleet utilization to 75% down from 79% in the prior quarter.
We recognized a $788 million or $735 million after-tax in favorable net reductions to operating and maintenance expenses associated with the Macondo-related settlements.
Excluding this O&amp;M totaled $195 million down $99 million from the prior quarter mainly due to low utilization previously mentioned reflecting 490 fewer operating days during the quarter.
In addition to our ongoing cost reduction initiatives the quarter was also impacted by a reduction in stacking preparation and other stacking costs that is recently released on contracts.
The second quarter annual effective tax rate was 16.9% versus 25.8% in the first quarter.
The decrease was due to the improvement of adjusted pre-tax income for the year primarily reflecting a reduction in operating expenses that supports an estimated annual ETR of 21.6% for 2015.
We ended the quarter with approximately $3.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents up $1.1 billion over the last quarter reflecting capital expenditures of $195 million $55 million in dividends out of additional paid-in capital and cash flow from operations of $1.3 billion including $445 million in proceeds from Macondo insurance recoveries.
Note that in July we received an additional $218 million in Macondo-related reimbursements and insurance proceeds.
In accordance with the settlement agreement we expect to deposit $212 million into escrow in the third quarter pending final court approval of the settlement with the PSC.
I will now provide guidance on our 2015.
We continue to anticipate fleet-wide revenue efficiency of 95%.
Other revenues which include reimbursibles and other early termination fees are expected to be between $200 million and $210 million.
We are lowering our full-year operating and maintenance expense guidance to between $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion.
This represents a substantial reduction versus our full-year 2014 O&amp;M costs and our initial expectations for this year.
The decrease in expected 2015 O&amp;M cost is partly due to scrapping of non-core assets.
It also reflects a significant reduction in expenses resulting from the rapid transition of assets from idle to a stacked condition and in cases where we consider assets to be uncompetitive spec'd to scrap.
Regarding the spec-ing of ultra-deepwater rigs we're implementing innovative cost-effective methodology that optimizes the cost of laying out these high specification assets.
We now believe we'll be able to reduce the cost of spec-ing these rigs to less than $50 000 per day depending on the rig.
We are lowering our G&amp;A guidance to between $170 million and $190 million.
Further we're taking a hard look at all processes across the organization and implementing a number of initiatives which would further improve our underlying cash flow generating capability beginning in the next few quarters.
In the final analysis some of these may appear visibly mundane but will contribute measurably to cost efficiency.
Others are inspired by best practices of companies in and in some instances outside the oilfield services and offshore drilling industries.
We don't intend to discuss this in detail today but we'll provide periodic updates as we make progress towards these objectives.
We expect depreciation expense to be between $900 million and $1 billion a decrease from our prior expectation which reflects rig retirements and impairments.
We expect interest expense net of interest income and capitalized interest to be between $425 million and $440 million.
Capitalized interest and interest income are expected to be approximately $140 million and $20 million respectively.
Our 2015 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is expected to be within the range of 21% to 25%.
This expectation reflects an updated forecast for each of our rigs as well as known changes in legislation.
We're increasing our 2015 capital expenditures guidance by about $170 million to $1.85 billion which includes $1.5 billion associated with our new-build program.
The increase is primarily associated with our decision to delay the Jurong new-build drillships by 24 months each which included acceleration of certain milestone payments.
These drill ships are now expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2020.
As a result of deferrals new-build capital expenditures in 2017 and 2018 have declined by more than $900 million in total favorably affecting our liquidity and cash flow visibility but allowing us to continue to high-grade our fleet.
Additional detail is provided in our new-build schedule available on our website.
Please note that we discovered a minor typographical error in the drilling fleet MD&amp;A on page 42 of our Form 10-Q filed last evening.
The 10-Q incorrectly indicates that our capital spending for 2015 is expected to be approximately $1.7 billion.
As indicated in our guidance the correct figure is $1.85 billion.
On July 30 2015 we redeemed the 4.95% senior notes due in November of this year with a cash payment of $914 million.
This early retirement was favorable from a cash flow perspective.
Now turning to the balance sheet our capital structure in particular.
We have an industry leading liquidity position.
After factoring in the repayment of our bonds discussed above we currently hold cash and cash equivalents of $2.9 billion and have available to us an undrawn $3 billion revolving credit facility for a total of about $6 billion in liquidity.
Although we'll continue to take steps to augment the flexibility of our balance sheet based upon our current forecast we are comfortable with our financial position for the next several years.
Now let me comment on Transocean Partners.
As some of you may be aware Partners celebrated its one-year anniversary as a public company last week and RIGP remains an important component of Transocean's financial structure and balance sheet flexibility.
However as many of you know as current market conditions have deteriorated since late 2014 the value of the company's units have also declined to the point where the market does not currently support a transaction between Transocean and RIGP.
We will continue to monitor market conditions and update you on our thinking in the future.
To conclude we are very pleased with our operational improvements including our strong sector performance sustained revenue efficiency of 95% or better in five of the last six quarter and improvements in our cost structure project planning and execution.
However there is more to do.
We'll continue to challenge the status quo to build upon this momentum and strive for even greater performance to help mitigate the impacts of reduced rig activity.
This concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn it over to Terry.
Marketing</strong> Thanks Mark and good day to everyone.
The market continues to be very challenging and is likely to remain so through 2016.
The low commodity price environment corresponding reductions in customer budgets and overcapacity in the global floater and jackup fleet are negatively impacting utilization and pricing in every market around the world.
Despite these challenges we have added $178 million of contract backlog since the last earnings call bringing the year-to-date total to $212 million.
We are happy to report the contracting of the Sedco Express Development Driller II the Deepwater Champion Transocean Barents the GSF Rig 140 Sedco 704 Transocean Andaman and the GSF Galaxy II since our last call highlighting our strong relationships with our customers and the ability to contract our diverse fleet regardless of the asset class.
In addition we are also very close to concluding on several opportunities already in the pipeline.
Our backlog as of July 15 was $18.6 billion comprising a stable and diverse customer base and reflecting favorable contracting terms with very limited exposure to early termination without compensation.
This foundation provides a solid base of cash flow generation and visibility of future revenues to help us weather the downturn.
Now to the market.
We expect challenging conditions to prevail through 2016 negatively impacting rates and utilization for all class of rigs.
Contracts are being early terminated contributing to growing idle capacity and drilling contractors are also more frequently competing with our customers as they are now subsidizing to market rate on farmed out rigs.
Indeed ultra-deepwater market utilization is down to 88% with 17 rigs idle and 10 cold stacked.
Year-to-date 17 ultra-deepwater fixtures have been executed primarily in the Golden Triangle Mexico and UK/Norway.
Deepwater is down to 73% with only four fixtures being recorded primarily in Australia.
Midwater utilization is at 75% posting nine fixtures contracted mainly for UK/Norway.
As of today there are a total of 25 cold stacked and 38 retired floaters.
We expect these numbers to continue to increase with the over capacity of supply and simply not enough demand in the near to medium term.
However we are seeing the NOCs and the independents providing some term work primarily in India Australia UK and Africa taking advantage of the countercyclical opportunity to lock up capacity at very attractive rates.
Our customers are also taking advantage of performing P&amp;A and decommissioning work required by regulatory authorities.
Additionally recent discoveries in the US Gulf of Mexico Colombia India and Guyana are increasing the likelihood that we may see incremental rig demand emerge from these regions in the medium term.
We are also optimistic about the bidding rounds in Mexico and Brazil opening up critical deepwater markets for future opportunities.
The premium jackup market is suffering from the same oversupply dynamics as the floater fleet with pressure on utilization and rates.
Marketed utilization is around 84% with 81 rigs currently warm stacked and 48 units cold stacked.
Given the major players that are old standard jackups we have seen limited jackup retirements to date compared to the floater fleet.
With the influx of the expected new-build deliveries challenging the less capable rigs we expect to see more retirement activity over time.
Delays of new-build deliveries provides some medium term relief in excess rig supply and attrition stacking will continue to assist the necessary and more permanent correction in the global over-supply situation.
Our customers tell us that they remain focused on the long-term outlook for offshore oil and gas drilling increasing global energy consumption replacement of reserves and increasing production while quickly resetting their cost bases.
As commodity pricing recovers customer programs will need to be executed and wells drilled fueling a rapid increase in demand for rigs.
While these are very challenging time for the entire industry we believe that our customer relationships global fleet operational performance strong backlog and passionate teams well position us to capitalize on opportunities in any market.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it over to you Thad.
Investor Relations and Treasurer</strong> Thanks Terry.
Katherine we're ready to open up the lines for questions and as a reminder to the participants please one question and one follow-up question.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go to our first participant Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Investor Relations and Treasurer</span></strong> Morning Ian.
Hi.
Terry your July 15 fleet status had a couple of ultra-deepwater rigs rolling in July and I think quite a few midwater rigs rolling in the third quarter as well.
Is there any updated status on any of those rigs? Or should we assume that those rollover dates held and anything that's not been updated is at this point idle? Marketing</span></strong> Well I think the only thing between the July fleet status that we actually contracted and you probably saw that was the Transocean Barents on a short-term rollover and other than that that's all that we currently are showing.
However I would tell you that we are in advance discussion on a few opportunities and that's really about all I can say about that Ian.
Okay.
I'll stay tuned.
To follow up Mark if I may you highlighted some of the near and medium-term CapEx relief that you've negotiated.
However your total new-build spending looks like it's increased by close to $400 million over the duration of the program.
Is that entire increase attributable to the payments for deferred delivery? Or have there been any scope changes to the new-builds that explain any of that? Well if you look at the rigs in particular and certainly referring to our schedule on the website you can see that the Jurong new-builds were increased by about $100 million in total with part of that – now that's each.
And part of that is associated with the fees to delay delivery by two years each but also part of that is pushing out the final payment.
So the capitalized interest that will be accrued over that time period is included in the amount that we have posted out there.
There are also some fees and capitalized interest associated with the jackup new-build deliveries which we delayed as well.
So overall it looks like a big number but you're looking at five jackups and two floaters for two years or more in the case of some jackups.
So I think on a per-rig basis it breaks out to a reasonably minor increase in the overall CapEx of those rigs.
And we'll go on to David Smith with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Hi.
Thank you.
Good morning and congratulations Mark.
Good morning.
I think you all now have about five drillships that are warm stacked near Trinidad.
I think some of them from the Gulf of Mexico some of them from West Africa.
I was just hoping to get some color on that movement and kind of the cost savings you're targeting but especially how that cost savings is achieved whether it's sharing the minimum crew requirements or fuel or where that's coming from.
We don't want to get into too much detail because we actually view this as somewhat of a competitive advantage but I will tell you that we like all of our competitors are learning as we go and as we stack more rigs we learn more about the process and we get more efficient.
So location's very important.
The process is very important and when you can park them in the same area you can certainly take down the manning a little bit.
So when we think about the long-term storage costs for modern drillships did I understand correctly that $50 000 a day is kind of a new target? Or am I mis-hearing that? No David as you know Jeremy said it very elegantly that this is a process and as the industry works through this process we get better at it over time.
So if you recall back to the last quarter we used a range of $50 000 to $85 000 per day for ultra-deepwater assets.
Today we can say it's less than $50 000.
We're not done looking at this.
Our team is continuously looking at opportunities as to how we can save costs around the stacking of these floating rigs.
You're well aware that the two biggest costs here are going to be people and fuel so we can certainly keep looking at this and see how we can get that number down to even lower levels in the future.
And we'll now go to Sean Meakim with JPMorgan.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So I was just hoping Terry maybe you could give us a little more detail or navigate between some of the exploration versus development opportunities that are out there.
In the current oil price environment it seems like exploration projects are even more likely to get pushed right but can you give us some indication of what kind of demand is out there for maybe development opportunities? Marketing</span></strong> Well I think the biggest news in the market is certainly that everyone is focused on right now is the ONGC tender.
So what I would say that's where the biggest demand lies today and overall they've got five I'm sorry four rigs that are pointed for development.
And they also have three other rigs that are pointed for exploration so it's going to be one of those things that the competition is going to be very fierce for that one.
We're also seeing quite a few other development opportunities and that's going to bring some long-term work and that's mainly in Australia with the Chevron and the Woodside program that's just come to market.
So we're starting to see a little bit more as you look out into now into 2016 2017 you're seeing a bit more of the development opportunities coming to market.
I would say that it is a bit encouraging because there are a few things that have popped up recently where we've been in direct discussions that haven't come to tender so that always makes us feel a little bit more confident when you're getting a direct negotiation opportunity.
And it's something that a lot of folks are unaware of.
So we like that kind of opportunity.
It gives us a little bit more confidence.
But having said that we all know that we've got a bit of a slog to get through 2016 so I'm just trying to be a little bit balanced with the commentary but there are quite a few.
But I would say more development opportunities are coming forward now than we're seeing exploration unfortunately.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And I just wanted to talk a little bit more about kind of managing cash flow and managing down costs.
I mean can you give us a little more indication of are there any more levers to pull in the new-build program to manage cash flow or do we think that we've kind of gotten we've extended that opportunity as best we can at this point? Well Sean I'm not sure what you're referring to with additional levers.
You're entering to a contract to build a rig there's a certain cost associated with that.
There's costs associated with the project management team that you have there from Transocean and then there's costs associated with the time hold of the cash payment and at the point you actually make that.
So I think by delaying these rigs what we've done is that we improved liquidity visibility but ultimately the overall cost of the rig is not going to come down much.
If obviously if you go out and order a new rig today you'll get a different price which will be substantially less than what it was in the past.
But as far as levers on the current rigs under construction I'm not sure there are levers to actually reduce those costs.
And we'll continue on to J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
I just had a question on the Macondo the remaining payments on the Macondo issue.
Are there any further payments that you or any further scheduled payments that you still need to make on the PSC settlement for example? As I mentioned in my prepared comments J.B.
we intend to fund the court finalizing the settlement with the PSC.
We intend to fund $212 million during this quarter.
Okay.
I missed that.
Thank you.
And just a follow-up question on the Terry you mentioned you're in some direct negotiations.
I know you can't provide that much color on it but could you maybe give the geographies that you're working on some of those opportunities in? Marketing</span></strong> I'm really sorry J.B.
I can't do that.
Our next question will come from Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Terry if you could maybe talk you discussed it a little bit in your prepared comments about Brazil.
Could you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in that market? Petrobras has obviously released their budget and it sounds like their rig count's going to be coming down but other operators in the area are looking for some rigs.
Could you maybe comment a little bit on what you're seeing in that market specifically? Marketing</span></strong> Yeah what we're seeing right now and you're absolutely right Petrobras is reducing their rig counts in the near term but I would like to say that we're certainly delighted that I'm sure that the peer group and ourselves are delighted that we're able to transfer term and not lose our margins so we're happy about that.
But as far as the other folks tendering in Brazil we're not seeing a lot of activity but we do know that several of our customers are saying that they hope to get some of their programs drilled start drilling into 2016 and 2017 so we anticipate there'll be a bit more.
Again we're very hopeful about the 11th Bidding Round but I think that there's going to have to be some sort of further concession on the local content.
So I know that's going to provide some cause of concern for the general operator population.
But certainly things seem to always in a downturn correct themselves.
So we're hopeful that people can find a way to get in there and start drilling the pre-salt.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then my follow-up is you mentioned some of the recent discoveries in Colombia and Guyana.
Can you say are the customers in those areas already talking to you guys on maybe bringing another rig in to do some appraisal work or how early stage is that and do you have any visibility at all on those new markets? Marketing</span></strong> Yes actually our tender just closed with ExxonMobil.
They're going to try to get a rig in there first quarter 2016 to do some appraisal work.
We also know Anadarko had the big discovery in Colombia but we believe they're going to take a bit of a pause and then ramp up a bit later so I don't anticipate you'll see incremental work there yet.
But I think that certainly the Guyana opportunity looks very promising and hopefully they'll have more opportunity to put some more rigs there.
And we'll continue on to David Anderson with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Hey Jeremy your (33:55) gives you a pretty unique perspective on your competition and considering how many of them have been your customers over the years.
I'd be kind of interested in your thoughts on how you think attrition plays out here.
You talked about it on the call a couple of times about the overcapacity but we've only seen I think 20 rigs retired in the industry since the beginning of the year and everybody seems to agree more need to be retired.
But why aren't we seeing more go away with such a bleak outlook? And secondarily are you concerned that the pace of this attrition isn't fast enough and could kind of push out this or is there an inflection point that you're starting to get some visibility on? Yeah I don't know that we're seeing any inflection point amongst our peers.
I think they're probably taking a similar approach to us although we've been far more aggressive in terms of looking at each of the assets and kind of looking at long-term viability and capability and the competitiveness of each asset and then making a decision as to whether they want to incur the cost of stacking or just retire the asset.
So all I can control is what we're doing here and as we sit on the call we're going to continue to look at each asset as they roll off contract to see are these assets that we want to incur the cost of stacking.
Are they assets that we just want to retire because we don't think that they're going to be competitive going forward.
I'd say in total we probably see maybe 10 to 15 assets in our fleet that we're carefully considering but it just depends on the market.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that was actually what I was going to ask you that because I think you've retired nine since the beginning of the year.
So we can assume there will be some added to that by the year-end.
I wouldn't assume it.
I would say that we're looking at each asset and as they roll off contract we'll determine whether or not we think they're going to be competitive going forward.
Let me just add to that that I would encourage you to consider that ultra-deepwater rigs that are cold stacked are going to be effectively removed from the competitive fleet for a while and a while could be three five seven years because the cost of reactivating these rigs will be substantial.
And you will need to have a very good day rate environment which means terms and rate where we can bring these rigs out of the stack mode.
And we'll continue on to Angie Sedita with UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So Mark I appreciated the details on the liquidity and the CapEx side but this is probably a question for both Jeremy and Mark.
When you think about it from a high level and you think about Transocean and obviously you're both fresh faces at Transocean but what else do think can be done differently than what was done in the past at Transocean from a strategy perspective? Financially you talked a little bit about but also operational.
Can you talk about how you can think about the company differently and from a strategy perspective and just different-decision making processes than in the past? Yeah Angie I'll take it first and Mark can chime in.
I think there are three things that we're really focused on and I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
I think from a customer interface standpoint customer relationship standpoint Transocean has always been viewed as a company that delivers exceptional assets and exceptional performance but it's sometimes been viewed as not as easy to deal with as it could be and so we're working hard on that and our customer relationships and managing those.
The second and probably the most urgent for us at the moment is taking a fresh look at our entire organization and the cost structure.
We've basically taken a zero-based budgeting approach to the organization and said listen if we're going to be a much smaller company than we were two years ago what is the organization that we need to support this smaller and more efficient organization.
So Mark's leading that charge and he can talk more about it in a moment.
And then the final is really high-grading the fleet and we're doing that by getting smaller first of all retiring some of the older less capable assets.
But we've still got our new-build program in place.
We think this market the longer the downturn lasts could present some interesting opportunities to upgrade the fleet through potential acquisitions so we're interested in that.
And then we've also got our technical teams working closely with our customers as well as our supply partners to look at what's kind of the next generation of technology that can help differentiate us in the future.
So those are really the three key areas where we're putting the majority of our focus right now.
And Mark I don't know if you had a comment on anything there.
I don't want to say too much on this because obviously they're steps we're taking which need to be internally discussed first.
But suffice to say that every level that we have we'll be looking at and in general looking at reducing complexity around the organization.
And obviously as I said in my prepared comments Angie we will update you on a quarterly basis as this progresses but I don't want to get into details at this stage.
Okay.
Both of you that was very helpful and then I'll ask the next one for Terry.
Terry can you talk a little bit about how you're conversations have changed from last May when we had higher oil prices and seemingly maybe a little bit more tangible interest in rigs? And if that has been the case have you see a change in the conversations or the tone of conversations from May somewhat implying at what oil price they may be willing to come back to the market? And have you also seen an increase in subletting since that time? Marketing</span></strong> Those are great questions Angie.
I think that the tone back in May when there was some stability and there was actually an increase in commodity pricing the conversations from my perspective became very positive.
So I think we were talking to quite a few of our customers to do a bit more conversations around blend and extend.
And then when we saw the retreat of commodity pricing here recently and it's become a well you know we want to take a wait-and-see; we'd like to have a little bit more stability.
So that's what it's going to require.
It's going to require more stability in commodity pricing.
As I said in my opening comments anything that's below $50 is just very concerning for all of our customers.
And then on the other side of that of course you're going to see the NOCs and the independents jump out here and take some opportunity to contract their work at some low pricing.
We've also seen a pickup in the UK and in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico for the decommissioning and the P&amp;A programs so that might help a bit.
But again you're just going to see that kind of trickle as far as we can see today.
And we'll now hear from Gregory Lewis of Credit Suisse.
Yes.
Thank you and good morning.
Good morning.
I guess this is to Jeremy or Mark.
I mean and you touched on it at the start of the call clearly as we look at the MLP right now it's probably not in a position to take advantage of dropping – or taking assets down.
But I guess I really just have two questions about the MLP.
One is how committed is Transocean to the MLP? As in your prepared remarks or in the press release Jeremy you mentioned about the potential of acquiring assets in this market now.
I realize Transocean owns 50% of Transocean Partners but probably three of those assets that are in Transocean Partners are probably three of the best assets that you can get your hands on probably in the near medium term.
And then with that also as you think about that as the Development Driller III rolls off contract in next year given the outlook for the market does it make sense to potentially reabsorb Transocean Partners? I would say Greg at this point we are evaluating all options and Mark said that earlier.
Everything's on the table.
But at this point in time we see RIGP as a critical piece of our financial structure and we're going to just see how this market plays out over time.
I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
No I think that's right.
As I said in my prepared comments it is an important part of our capital structure and financing flexibility and until the market proves to no longer be able to support Transocean Partners we're going to keep it in that context.
Okay guys.
That's all for me.
Thanks.
Thanks Greg.
Thank you.
And we'll go to Andrea Stubsrud with Pareto Securities.
Thank you.
A question on the new-builds.
Is it correct all the four Shell new-builds will go to Gulf of Mexico? Marketing</span></strong> Good morning Andreas.
As of now the discussion have certainly been with Shell that they are going to be coming to the Gulf of Mexico so that's what we know today.
Okay.
And then my main question is related to those long 10-year contracts and the day rates above $500 000.
How do you see the risk for renegotiation of those contracts Terry? Marketing</span></strong> Andreas we're not really having any of those type of conversations with Shell at this time.
I mean Shell and Transocean worked very closely together to design these vessels so they're a very special type of design fit for purpose for their programs.
So we don't as I said we don't see that that's actually going to be put on the table at this time.
We'll continue on to Mark Brown with Global Hunter.
LLC</span></strong> Hi.
I was wondering if you could give an update on the ONGC tender and just what you're hearing about that and what rigs you might be looking to bid for that? Marketing</span></strong> Yeah so this is obviously it's a pretty exciting tender for all of us because it's going to take quite a bit of the capacity off of the market.
I would say that as far as what we're tendering I really don't want to show that hand but I think you'll expect a heavy heavy participation from the industry.
So it would be anything from your shallow water semis all the way up to your brand new drillships that will be in semis bid into this opportunity.
But they're going to close around – they have different dates but they're due in August so they've just firmed up the dates.
But we expect that it's going to be on time and that they will be worked very quickly so we're very hopeful that we have many rigs that are successful in that opportunity.
LLC</span></strong> Very good.
And the other question I had is just with lower oil prices could that potentially accelerate the incentive to stack and scrap some of your rigs because it just reduces the probability that there will be demand in the near medium term? And is that something that have you changed your perspective on scrapping or stacking since three months ago when oil prices were around $60? Mark I'd argue we've probably been – we have been the most aggressive with respect to recycling older and less competitive rigs and we'll continue down that process.
Obviously the lower oil prices means less demand around the market and so if we look at our rigs we don't think that they're going to be competitive in the near to mid term then we'll certainly have that conversation internally.
Thank you.
We'll take a follow up from David Smith.
Hey.
Thank you.
Just a quick follow-up on the first question which was as you manage to bring down the cost of warm stacking the drillships I wanted to ask if anything has changed to your estimated costs to bring those rigs back to service eventually.
At this stage David nothing has changed there.
Obviously this is something that's going to be evaluated in the future because we're a ways away from that but we'll update you as we get close to that time and point.
All right.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our final question will come from Ian Macpherson as a follow-up.
Hey.
Thanks.
A quick follow-up just on balance sheet efficiency now that the Macondo uncertainty is substantially eliminated.
$3.8 billion of cash is obviously not efficient.
How quickly and to what extent do you plan to bring that down to an optimal level? Yes you're absolutely right Ian.
In fact we just used almost $1 billion of that to repay our 2015 maturities.
So we'll look at reducing our cash on hand because our risk exposure to Macondo-related issues has been eliminated for the most part.
So at this stage I'm not going to give you a targeted cash position or targeted liquidity but suffice to say we're in the midst of a downturn where cash is your friend.
So we'll have more there than we would typically have in up cycle but certainly it will be less than $3.8 billion.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And with no additional questions I'll go ahead and turn the conference back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Investor Relations and Treasurer</strong> So thank everyone for your participation and questions today.
As usual we are available to respond to any modeling or other questions you may have over the balance of the day.
We look forward to chatting with you when we report our third quarter results.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all again for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean Q3 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Brad Alexander.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Noah.
Welcome to Transocean's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules including reconciliations and disclosures regarding non-GAAP financial measures are posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
Joining me on this morning's call are Jeremy Thigpen President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Mey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
During the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Such statements are based upon the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to our SEC filings for more information regarding our forward-looking statements including the risks and uncertainties that could impact our future results.
Also please note that the company undertakes no duty to update or revise forward-looking statements.
Finally to give more participants an opportunity to speak on this call please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up question.
Thank you very much.
And now I'll turn the call over to Jeremy Thigpen.
Thank you Brad and a warm welcome to our employees customers investors and analysts participating in today's call.
Our performance in the third quarter was strong as we reported adjusted net income of $316 million or $0.87 per diluted share on $1.6 billion in revenues.
Mark will take you through the figures in more detail shortly but I would like to stress that these results reflect the strong emphasis we continue to place on operating performance and cost management.
From an operating performance standpoint I'm very pleased to report that our total reportable injury rate continued to decline due to our unwavering commitment to safety and a combination of our training programs procedures processes and related audits.
As we move through the balance of 2015 and into 2016 we will heighten our efforts in both personal and process safety to further protect our employees and the environments in which we operate.
In addition to our sustained improvements in the realm of HSE we are proud to report that we continue to identify opportunities to maintain high uptime performance with our customers.
This can be seen in total fleet revenue efficiency which was 95% in the period and has been at or above 95% for six of the last seven quarters.
While we are pleased with our uptime performance and our resulting revenue efficiency we continue to strive for perfection.
As such we are pushing forward with enhanced in-service maintenance programs that are designed to ensure the reliability of each piece of equipment as well as each system without requiring out-of-service time and expensive shipyard projects.
In addition to maintenance programs focused on equipment reliability we are actively reviewing crew performance during critical drilling operations across our entire fleet to more quickly identify and share best practices.
This will drive continued improvements in operational efficiency and provide our customers a consistent predictable and high level of performance across all asset classes globally.
As we continue working to enhance our HSE and operational performance we also recognize the need to further reduce our cost structure.
To that end we recently initiated an internal reorganization to more efficiently support what we know will be a smaller but higher specification fleet of assets.
As part of this restructuring we are flattening the organization identifying and eliminating those processes policies and procedures that do not add tangible value and consolidating the majority of our support functions into our Houston office.
Globally we will transition to a new streamlined support structure that will remain in close proximity to our rigs' operations and only include those functions that are critical to the safe and efficient operations of a specific rig.
This change will meaningfully reduce our shore-based costs while simultaneously improving the quality and the consistency of the support that we are able to provide to both our teams on the rigs and to our customers.
During his prepared remarks Mark will discuss the magnitude and timing of the cost savings that we expect to derive from these changes.
Returning to the quarter our strong revenue efficiency and the cost reductions that we have made to date resulted in an operating margin including G&amp;A of 43% despite the continued decline in activity.
In addition to driving operational improvement and cost reductions we continue to high-grade our fleet through both subtraction and addition.
During the quarter we identified an additional floater the GSF Rig 135 for recycling.
To date we have indicated our intent to scrap 22 floaters and we will continue to evaluate our rigs on a case-by-case basis with further retirements reflecting our commitment to operating the most effective – competitive fleet in the industry.
In September we took possession of the Deepwater Thalassa our first of four newbuild ultra-deepwater drill ships that we will operate for Shell.
The Thalassa is in route to the Gulf of Mexico where she will begin her 10-year contract at the end of the year.
This world-class drill ship was built with significant involvement from Shell and represents another important step in our ongoing strategy of revitalizing our fleet with assets that provide significant value to our customers.
The Thalassa is designed to operate in water depths of up to 12 000 feet and drills wells to a depth of 40 000 feet.
With patented dual activity drilling technology she possesses industry-leading hoisting capacity and dual BOPs and can be upgraded to 20 000 psi when available.
In addition to the Thalassa the Proteus is on schedule to be delivered near the end of this year and will go on contract for Shell in the first half of next year.
For the other two newbuild ultra-deepwater drill ships the Pontus and Poseidon we recently announced that an agreement was reached to delay the deliveries of each without any changes to the day rate or duration of the contracts.
We are pleased that our strong relationships with both Shell and Daewoo shipyard enabled us to modify the delivery and activation of these rigs on a mutually agreed-upon timetable.
Mark will provide some thoughts on the financial impact of these delays later in the call.
As we look forward into the next 12 to 24 months we expect that the conditions will continue to be challenging for offshore drilling companies.
However our customers remain committed to their offshore properties and the future production that they represent.
The currently depressed oil and gas price environment has stymied investment in the near term but the need for future reserve replacement remains critical.
As more cost-effective solutions come to market and further efficiency gains continue to be realized by the industry we will experience increasing demand for our world-class assets and service.
Until then our approach is to manage those things within our control such as high-grading our fleet and our crews streamlining our business continuing to improve upon our safety and operational performance and finding other opportunities to distinguish ourselves in the eyes of our customers.
Ultimately we will emerge from the downturn as a stronger company positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that will materialize as the industry recovers.
With our $16.9 billion backlog more than $5 billion of liquidity a diverse fleet global infrastructure and strong customer relationships we believe that we are best positioned to capitalize on these opportunities as they arise.
Before I hand the call over to Mark who will provide you with additional comments on the company's financial performance and then Terry who will provide an update on the market I would just like to take a moment to thank all of the Transocean employees for their continued commitment and exceptional performance during this challenging time.
I truly appreciate all that you do for Transocean.
Mark? Thank you Jeremy and good day to all participants on this call.
During today's call I plan to briefly recap the third quarter results discuss our balance sheet and liquidity position and provide an update to our 2015 full-year guidance.
I will also provide an early look at our cost expectations for 2016.
For the third quarter 2015 we reported net income attributable to controlling interests of $321 million or $0.88 per diluted share.
Net income included $5 million or $0.01 per diluted share in net favorable items as outlined in the press release.
Excluding these items adjusted net income was $316 million or $0.87 per diluted share.
Consolidated revenues decreased $276 million sequentially to $1.6 billion due mostly to lower fleet utilization reflecting 374 fewer operating days and declined other revenues related to contract terminations fees recognized in the second quarter of 2015.
As Jeremy mentioned we once again achieved outstanding revenue efficiency of 95%.
We continue to expect this level of operating performance going forward.
Third quarter operating and maintenance expenses decreased $105 million to $880 million from an adjusted second quarter amount of $985 million.
Approximately two-thirds of the decrease was due to reduced activity and included the benefits we are recognizing related to cost-effective cluster stacking of our ultra-deepwater floaters.
Sequentially these this ultra-deepwater stacking costs have decreased by approximately 35% and we expect these costs to be below $40 000 per day in early 2016.
The quarter also favorably impacted by the company's actions to reduce costs.
This includes increasing Lake Superior maintenance projects that have historically been performed in a shipyard while operating on contract.
Third quarter operating margin including G&amp;A was approximately 43%.
Our margins over the past several quarters continue to remain high despite reduced activity as we've aggressively managed our costs.
The third quarter annual effective tax rate was 7.5% compared with 16.9% in the prior quarter.
The decrease was due largely to jurisdictional and operational structural changes for certain rigs that impacted the company's deferred tax assets.
These changes were not anticipated in last quarter's guidance.
Offsetting these decreases were changes in estimates and the impact of foreign currency fluctuations primarily on the Norwegian krone.
As a result the third quarter included a tax benefit of $18 million or $0.05 per diluted share to reflect the decrease in the annual effective tax rate to 18% for the nine months ended September 30 2015 from 21.6% for the six months ended June 30 2015.
We ended the quarter with approximately $2.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents reflecting cash flow from operations of $648 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $940 million mostly related to our newbuild program and included the final shipyard payment on the Deepwater Thalassa.
The Thalassa will commence its $1.9 billion 10-year contract for Shell in late December.
As discussed on the second quarter call we redeemed the 4.95% senior notes due November with a cash payment of $904 million in July 2015.
Additionally we've opportunistically repurchased $292 million of debt at a cost of $274 million during the quarter.
The majority of the repurchased debt was scheduled to mature over the next three years.
Cash interest savings will be approximately $45 million the majority of which favorably impacts 2016 and 2017.
Before I move on I'd like to comment on the recent Moody's credit rating downgrade.
Although disappointed by the action and do not agree with the conclusions we will continue to manage the business and our liquidity in a manner that enables us to weather the current challenges and strategically positions us for future recovery.
I will now provide an update on our financial expectations for the rest of the year preliminary 2016 thoughts and our liquidity forecast through the end of 2017.
Other revenues which include reimbursables are expected to be between $210 million and $220 million for 2015.
We are once again narrowing our full-year 2015 operating and maintenance costs and G&amp;A expense guidance to between $3.7 billion and $3.75 billion and between $170 million and $180 million respectively.
As Jeremy mentioned we're implementing structural changes which will further improve our cash flow over the next three to four quarters.
Related to these actions we expect to recognize restructuring costs in the fourth quarter.
We expect annual depreciation expense to be between $150 million and $1 billion.
We are lowering our full-year 2015 net interest expense guidance to be between $415 million and $420 million.
This reduction is due in part to the earlier debt retirements during the quarter.
Net interest expense includes capitalized interest and interest income of $145 million and $20 million respectively.
We are lowering our 2015 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations to be between 17% and 19% reflecting our recent structural changes and income expectations for the remainder of the year.
Our full-year 2015 capital expenditures guidance is slightly higher at $2 billion which includes $1.7 billion associated with our newbuild program inclusive of capitalized interest.
Our quarterly newbuild website schedule has been updated to reflect these changes.
The increase is primarily due to the change in the timing of the shipyard payments related to the delivery delays for the Deepwater Pontus and the Deepwater Poseidon with the decline in 2016 capital spending more than offsetting these increases.
Full-year maintenance capital expenditures for 2015 are now expected to be approximately $300 million.
(14:16) 2016 operating and maintenance costs for the year are expected to be 25% to 30% lower as compared with adjusted 2015 costs.
Of this potential reduction in costs approximately 80% of the decrease is associated with reduced operating activity which is reflected in our fleet status reports published quarterly and lower out-of-service costs.
The remaining 2016 O&amp;M cost decrease is related to our continued actions to improve the efficiency of our business including through our new operating (14:47) support models and our innovative approach to maintenance projects.
We expect our G&amp;A expenses in 2016 to decline to approximately $165 million again reflective of the results of our restructuring.
Capital expenditures in 2016 are anticipated to be approximately $1.4 billion including $1.16 billion for the newbuilds $170 million for capitalized interest.
Maintenance CapEx is expected to be between $90 million and $120 million.
This reduced level of maintenance capital expenditures is aligned with our other service-day estimates and consistent with a smaller but younger fleet of operating rigs.
Turning now to our financial position.
Last week at our AGM our shareholders approved the cancellation of the final two installments of our dividend.
This provides us with an additional $110 million of liquidity.
Based upon our current forecast our projected liquidity at December 31 2017 remains in the range of $4 billion to $5 billion.
This includes our $3 billion undrawn revolving credit facility that remains available to us through mid-2019.
The cash flow impact of early debt retirements made during the quarter for maturities post-2017 are largely offset by the additional cash flow generated from better-than-expected financial result in the quarter and reduced interest expense associated with these early debt retirements.
We've accelerated some of the progress payments to the Daewoo shipyard for the Deepwater Pontus and Poseidon but the impact to our liquidity expectations is not significant based upon the terms of the arrangements with both DSME and Shell.
Let me update you on some additional assumptions that are included in our forecast through 2017.
Revenue efficiency of 95%; existing contracts remain intact; a number of new contract awards; and an essentially cash-breakeven (16:45) reflecting current challenging market conditions and working capital release of approximately $250 million per year.
Related to 2017 we expect total CapEx of approximately $600 million.
This includes $175 million (17:03) our newbuilds $150 million for capitalized interest and approximately $250 million of maintenance CapEx.
This maintenance CapEx guidance excludes reactivations for potential future contract awards.
To conclude we are very pleased with our operational results including our strong safety performance sustained high level of revenue efficiency and improvements in our cost structure.
We will continue to challenge the status quo to build upon this momentum and strive for even greater performance to help mitigate the impact of reduced rig activity.
This concludes my prepared comments.
I'll now turn the call over to Terry.
Marketing</strong> Thanks Mark and good day to everyone.
As Jeremy and Mark already articulated the market remains very challenging and we expect this to continue through 2016 and into 2017.
But we fully expect that relief will come in the form of improved commodity pricing increased exploration programs lower operating cost and the continued scrapping of less-capable rigs.
Until then we will be fighting for every opportunity in a highly competitive offshore market.
Despite these challenges we've added $218 million of contract backlog since the last earnings call bringing the year-to-date total to $430 million.
We are pleased to report the contracting of the KG2 Sedco 706 and the Constellation I since our last call again highlighting our ability to compete for work with our diverse fleet of rigs.
And I am pleased to report that since issuing our fleet status report last week we have successfully renegotiated our Petrobras fleet.
As part of the renegotiation we will be terminating the Deepwater Navigator on December 31 2015 and the Deepwater Driller on June 30 2016 and in exchange receive an additional 747 days of term at $275 000 a day for the Sedco 706 a second-generation deepwater rig which was upgraded in 2007.
This adds approximately $164 million net contract backlog and is a testament to the quality of our fleet and operating performance and our longstanding and solid relationship with Petrobras.
Outside of Brazil we are also very close to realizing several opportunities already in the pipeline and we'll have more positive news shortly.
Our backlog as of October 26 was $16.9 billion the largest and strongest in the industry comprised of a stable customer base with limited exposure for early termination without compensation.
This foundation provides for solid cash flow generation with 70% of revenues contracted with the majors 14% contracted with independents and 8% contracted with the NOCs.
Turning to the current market challenging conditions will prevail into 2017 negatively impacting rates and recontracting opportunities for all classes of rigs.
Since last year ultra-deepwater rates have seen an almost 65% reduction and marketed utilization is down to 83% with 22 rigs idle and 12 cold-stacked.
Year to date only 24 ultra-deepwater fixtures have been executed primarily in the Golden Triangle Mexico and U.K.
Norway.
Deepwater is down to 72% marketed utilization with only eight fixtures year to date being recorded primarily in Australia and Asia.
Midwater utilization is at 72% posting 10 fixtures contracted mainly for U.K.
Norway.
As of today there are a total of 30 cold-stacked and 43 retired floaters with Transocean accounting for more than 50% of the retired floater count.
We expect these numbers to continue to increase with the overcapacity of supply forcing the retirement of more assets.
We are also seeing customers terminating contracts early especially if they have cause.
In the cases where the contract involves a rig currently under construction these are increasingly also resulting in rig cancellations with the shipyards.
However opportunities are emerging as some NOCs and independents are taking the countercyclical approach of contracting low-cost solutions for their programs in the near term.
Some of the customers are also taking advantage of performing P&amp;A and decommissioning work required by regulatory authorities.
Additionally recent discoveries in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico Colombia India and Guyana are increasing the likelihood that we may see incremental rig demand emerge from these regions in the medium term.
We also remain optimistic about the IOC's opportunities to gain access to Mexico and Brazil opening up critical deepwater markets for future opportunities.
The jackup market is also exposed to the oversupply dynamics which is applying downward pressure on utilization and rates.
Marketed utilization is around 74% with 99 rigs currently warm-stacked and 61 units cold-stacked.
Given the majority of the players that own older-stack standard jackups we've seen limited jackup retirements to date compared to the floater fleet.
With a relatively low cost associated with stacking a jackup rig scrapping activity is likely to be deferred until the required surveys for these rigs occur.
Delays of newbuild deliveries provides some medium-term relief in excess rig supply and the attrition and stacking will continue to contribute to a necessary and more permanent correction in the global oversupply situation.
Overall our customers remain committed to their offshore portfolios but are intently focused on reducing their cost of development.
While there's tremendous need to lower expenses associated with these projects operators are steadfast in their expectation of superior operational and safety performance.
They are also now focused on the long-term viability of drilling contractors in light of strained finances.
With our near-term liquidity industry-leading backlog diverse fleet best-in-class crews and support teams we are positioning ourselves to further our market leadership surpassing the expectations of both our customers and stakeholders.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it over to you Brad.
Thanks Terry.
Noah we're ready to open the line for questions.
As a reminder to the participants please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Hey thank you very much.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Ian.
It's got to be difficult to project 2016 when you've got so many rollovers across the fleet and so I appreciate that guidance.
And I wonder if that guidance contemplates the scrapping of any of your ultra-deepwater rigs that are currently cold-stacked and does it also contemplate cold-stacking incremental ultra-deepwater rigs? Just trying to kind of probe in that area a little bit.
Yeah thanks Ian and good morning to you as well.
Look you're absolutely right trying to forecast and budget in this environment is very difficult.
But as Terry said the market is tough but we do feel that we have an opportunity with a certain number of our rigs.
So as most of our competitors will do we'll take a stab at what we think's going to be recontracted what's not going to be recontracted and budget accordingly to that.
So if you look out over next year look at my guidance I did indicate that we're going to be substantially lower than this year for our O&amp;M costs and about 80% of that is associated with the reduced rig activity.
So we fully expect to see that a certain amount of our rigs that do roll over in 2016 do not get contract awards.
What I'd add to that Ian is on the last call we talked about 10 to 15 rigs that we were watching pretty closely and really trying to determine the marketability of those rigs and could ultimately wind up retiring those rigs over time.
What I will say is is some of those rigs are currently on contract and others are being actively marketed into viable opportunities so as we get a clearer picture of those opportunities and our success in them we will quickly make decisions.
Okay thanks.
And then for the follow-up question I'm sorry it's just a repeat of what you said.
Mark was the 2016 total CapEx $1.4 billion? I thought that sounded low if your newbuild spending is over $1.3 billion.
I might have misheard you.
Our newbuild spending has been updated on our website and that's $1.16 billion of the $1.4 billion.
And we'll take our next question from Dave Wilson with Howard Weil.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First Mark just regarding the Pontus and Poseidon and the agreed-upon delays I just wanted to verify that I'm reading the info right and that the total cost for those rigs has increased by $60 million.
And of that how much is capitalized interest and how much is more going to the shipyards? Your assessment Robin (sic) [Dave] on the increasing capitalized interest that's correct.
With regard to the detailed model questions I'm sure that Greg can help you after the call.
Okay.
And then Terry from a marketing perspective looking out into 2016 I know it's challenging and many have written it off but say if for some unforeseen reason oil prices find their way back into the $70 range would a move like that really change operator behavior in 2016 and get more rigs contracted? I mean part of me thinks that some of these bigger companies are slow to move and adjust and so there wouldn't be much change but another part of me thinks that from a standpoint there could be some pent-up inventory and demand that that makes sense at those prices.
Just wondering if you'd given much thought to that scenario.
Marketing</span></strong> Hi Dave yeah that's a good question.
What we're seeing is that in discussions with the customers some of the customers actually have programs that they would like to drill now but they're unable in this environment to get their partners' approval.
So I think on the inventory that's on the table today that in the event we see that that we would see more partner approval and push some of this one-off wells into the market.
So again and it's not just one customer that is saying this it's several customers that really – they have the budget and these are people that want to get out there and drill countercyclical as I alluded to in my notes so we are seeing some of that.
And we'll take our next question from Robin Shoemaker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I just wanted to ask also regarding the Pontus and Poseidon.
Now that you have delayed these two rigs is the book closed with regard to Shell's four 10-year contracts on these rigs? We have seen of course Shell's announcement about lower CapEx going forward and so forth.
So as far as you know does this sort of settle the issue? Marketing</span></strong> Hi Robin it's Terry.
I'm not altogether sure of the question when you say "close the book." Are you asking are we moving forward on all four of these rigs and everything is fine with the projected programs that Shell's going to be drilling? Inc.</span></strong> Well – no actually I was just asking if there are continuing negotiations about either the term or pricing - Marketing</span></strong> No.
Inc.</span></strong> – or delivery date? Yeah.
Marketing</span></strong> No not at this time.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Marketing</span></strong> We are not having any of those discussions.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
And then Terry on your comment about some of the national oil companies being countercyclical in terms of looking to add rigs in this environment well aware of the Indian National Oil Company.
What other NOCs do you think are looking at these low rig rates opportunistically? Marketing</span></strong> Well what we're seeing is there's some tendering activity out there Robin that's public information.
So there's some tenders in the hopper right now.
What comes to mind is Petronas is out there and then for the others we're in some discussions that we really don't want to make public at this time.
And we'll take our next question from Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good morning.
So you guys have done a great job of showing market leadership with both stacking and scrapping rigs.
And you've talked about the potential for more.
Is there a set of assumptions that goes into the scrap-versus-stack discussion? So in other words if you're stacking something instead of scrapping it is there at least some view of work for that rig within a certain period of time a certain reactivation cost? Just anything you could share in terms of your analysis in terms of going one route versus another with an idle rig? Marketing</span></strong> Yeah Mike what we do is we sit down and we go through an economic analysis of what makes sense if we're going to keep a rig warm are we going to move it to cold? We look at the open opportunities that we are either targeting the rig for or that we've actually already bid the rig for and we do that analysis on a case-by-case basis.
So once it shows that we're not going to be able to contract the rig then we quickly make the decision to move it to cold-stack or scrap.
Inc.</span></strong> And is there kind of a critical threshold there? Again I'm kind of looking for more the scrap-versus-stack decision.
Is there say a period of which you say look there's no work for this rig within the next two years; therefore it's a scrap candidate? Or is it more qualitative than that? Marketing</span></strong> Well I mean as you can see what we've done already with the rigs that we've already scrapped it's been the lower-capable rigs as we continue to high-grade our fleet.
So it'd be the deepwater and the midwater assets that we have already scrapped with some exceptions on some very old ultra-deepwater rigs that were built – and they're almost as old as me.
So that's what we've done.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And then kind of a housekeeping question for Mark.
The 2016 OpEx 25% to 30% on an adjusted basis what's the – just so we can make sure we get the right number – what's the starting point for that in absolute terms relative to the OpEx you gave us for 2015? Is it at that OpEx number or is that an adjusted number relative to the 2015 guidance? Mike it's the $3.7 billion to $3.75 billion guidance which I provided earlier in my prepared comments.
And we'll take our next question from J.B.
Lowe with Cowen &amp; Company.
Hey good morning everyone.
Just had a question on your uses of cash going forward.
So it sounds like you paid back some debt.
I'm just wondering going forward when we're talking about some assets that might be distressed or some rigs in the shipyards that are owned by players who won't be able to operate them how are you kind of looking at further debt repayment versus maybe taking a look at some assets that could come up to the market cheaply? Yeah J.B.
that's a good question.
Obviously when we look at this we optimize liquidity.
And in this environment with activity being as low as it is it's critical to us to increase liquidity as much as possible.
So we will look at assets in the shipyards we will look at assets for sale but obviously we have bid comments.
We have CapEx commitments we've got new rigs coming from the shipyard – very high-quality high-spec rigs coming from the shipyard.
So we don't feel compelled to go out there and make any decisions.
Obviously if prices get down to a level where they are so appealing that you couldn't walk away from it we'll take a hard look at that as well.
But at this stage we're more focused on operating our business and making sure that we come through the downturn able to thrive at the next cycle recovery.
Okay great.
And just the follow-up question would be what was the rationale behind your guys' changing the disclosures you provide for the operating and maintenance costs? We just want to be in line with the peer group.
So we thought there was too much information in comparison to what the peers provide.
And we'll take our next question from Sean Meakim with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Morning.
So thinking about your credit facility that matures in 2019 we're seeing rig deliveries across the space getting pushed out.
The industry seems to be getting smarter at finding ways to keep rigs stacked but not too far from activation if they're given the opportunity.
How do we think about that maturity timing and your optionality to perhaps de-risk it sooner rather than later? Sean I think you're asking me whether we can extend maturity of that? Sorry just how you think about that in the context of – I know we don't have a lot of visibility out to 2019 but looking at the cadence of supply/demand over that time particularly on the supply side just curious how you think about your strategy with respect to that particular maturity? Well we look at every lever out there.
As you've seen the company's done a tremendous job with regard to costs with regard to pushing out CapEx.
With repurchasing debt that's trading at a discount.
So we've got to look at all of these levers on a continuous basis to improve liquidity.
Obviously one of those is to give us more headroom around a major maturity in 2019.
So as we get better clarity over the next few years we'll certainly engage with our banks.
We'll talk about what it takes to extend that or make alternative plans with regard to that credit facility.
But absolutely.
This is something we focus on every single day.
All right well that's certainly fair enough.
And then just congrats on getting the Petrobras deal completed.
But I guess I was hoping to get a little more context of where do you think Transocean is and where do you think the industry is in terms of that renegotiation process? Does that process drag on through 2016 or are we getting closer to the end of resetting a lot of the existing contracts? Marketing</span></strong> Well in discussions with Petrobras what they are saying is they've got more that they would like to do with the current fleet as far as – I think that they'll if they can that they will keep some of their better-equipped assets and also look for some other opportunities to do a blend and extend.
I think it's just only hampered by the fact that they've got so much on their plate and they're working through this.
So we finally got our approval and they just kept telling us it's coming.
It's just that we've got so much on our plate to work through and that we just can't get to the next thing.
So we're hopeful that there's going to be more discussion about extension of current fleet.
And we'll take our next question from David Anderson with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I'm just wondering if you could comment a little bit more about the midwater market.
Seems like there's some debate around that market.
Some are thinking that the midwater market could actually recover faster than the sixth-gen market.
So I was just wondering if you could just kind of comment about how you're thinking about the tightness of that market or the supply of that market particularly how it ties into potentially retiring your fleet.
I guess my question is are you feeling better about that market today than you were say six months ago and how do you see that playing out? Marketing</span></strong> Well I think that if you look at the North Sea and the Norwegian market certainly that's a closed market and that market is going to once the commodity price turns around that's going to be a viable market in our opinion and we have a strong presence there.
So we call that our standard midwater and then certainly our harsh environment fleet.
Outside of that arena we look at certainly other midwater arenas and that would be Australia and Asia.
And certainly let's not forget India with the open tenders that we have there.
So there are certain areas in the world there's always going to be midwater floaters that are going to work there.
I look to our own fleet and look at the Actinia who is – it's one of our oldest midwater floaters in the fleet.
It's a second-generation rig.
And she's worked for a very long time.
Customers like her.
She's very simple to work and so I think that there's viability.
But I don't think that it's a whole lot different when we had other up markets.
When the market returns it's easy to put the midwaters back to work because it's plug-and-play.
You get production very quickly.
So I don't think midwater floater fleet is dead but certainly some of the better capable equipment can work down into those arenas in a low-cost environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
So Jeremy back in September you made a comment and you said that now more than ever offshore drillers are having more involvement in the sequencing of a well to help drive down costs.
Can you help us understand with me a little bit where you are in that process? How prevalent is that now? Are you seeing more interaction with the majors and do you think that will be a big cost driver going forward in order for offshore to work better? David I think you're quoting someone else.
I'm not sure I followed the question.
Would you ask it again maybe? Inc.</span></strong> Well I'm just kind of curious if you're getting more involved with the operator in terms of kind of say the well design the sequencing in terms of like another way to drive down offshore development costs or offshore exploration costs.
I'm just wondering if your business mix has changed in terms of kind of how you guys fit in with the whole scheme.
Marketing</span></strong> Well I guess if you're talking about are we helping with thinking about other utility assets that could go through in a well program do top hull intervention work help sequence that kind of process then the answer to the question is we talk about all of those type of things with our customers and how we can be more efficient in their development programs.
But I guess that I'm a little lost as to the other part of the question.
The other thing that I would add there and this may not be the question you're asking but it may be so I'll just throw it out.
We are having more intentional conversations with our customers around different commercial models potentially about aligning ourselves better with some of their other service providers so that we are all jointly working toward the same objective which is safe and lower-cost more efficient wells.
And we'll take our next question from Greg Lewis with Credit Suisse.
Yes thank you and good morning.
And I guess good afternoon.
Terry just listening to some of your comments – and I'm realizing the outlook for 2016 is very challenging.
Then again 2015 was really challenging as well.
As we look out and you talk to customers should we expect or are we thinking about maybe seeing a pickup in activity or at least terms of rig years being tendered in 2016 versus 2015? Or is 2016 more likely going to look a lot more like 2015? Marketing</span></strong> Greg that's a good question.
If you look at the activity we've had to date it's what been maybe 25 fixtures and that's about 50% of what we had in 2013 and 2014.
So as I look into 2016 I have to say from Transocean's knowledge of the activity that we're currently working on we're busy as beavers.
So we've got a lot of things that we're trying to close.
Again I alluded to the fact we've got lots of opportunities that we hope to have positive news soon.
We just have really been working hard to close down some of these open opportunities.
And I really can't give you a whole lot more color than that but that gives me some optimism just from my own perspective.
I don't know what the other folks are closing down in their shops other than what – I can only speak to what we're closing down.
Okay great.
And then just I mean – and it's been touched on a couple times in terms of getting costs down.
I mean clearly that's been a big focus across the sector.
And really I just wanted to kind of talk a little bit about the decision – and it's been touched on – stacking a rig and scrapping a rig.
Clearly everyone's in a room analyzing the ability the decision to finally scrap a rig.
Does that end up being a board decision or is that something that just management is able to make that decision on their own? I'm just trying to figure out if that's maybe why the scrapping of rigs is taking a little bit longer than maybe some people would think.
Greg this is Mark.
Let me tell you how we think about this.
Every single rig in our fleet we have a plan for that rig today.
And that plan involves marketing it as aggressively as possible.
And when we say we're not going to market it then we take action against that rig right away.
As Jeremy indicated we've got a list of rigs which we feel will not make the grade through the cycle.
Those rigs will go and get recycled.
We feel we've got a lot more rigs that will make it through the cycle.
They'll come out in the back end they'll get reactivated and make a significant amount of money for shareholders.
So we look at this very carefully.
What the market expects us to do is to give you a list of rigs today which we're going to scrap.
That's not going to happen.
We're going to market each rig as hard as we can to get the work and when we make the decision and after we've told the employees then we'll tell the markets how we're going to deal with it.
So this is a process.
It's going to happen over the next 12 18 24 months as the market recovers but it's unreasonable to expect us to come up with a list of rigs right now which they're going to retire in the event we're unable to remarket them.
And we'll take our next question from Scott Gruber with Citigroup.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes thank you.
I want to come back to the midwater market.
Historically there was a fair amount of overlap in the operating range across the floater fleet.
Terry how much of that overlap remains? Are we now basically in a market where the moored assets are almost exclusively working on jobs requiring moorings? Marketing</span></strong> What was the last word you said requiring – ? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Requiring moorings.
I mean are the moored assets - Marketing</span></strong> Oh.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I'm wondering about the – is there a bifurcation in the floater market? We have the moored assets working on jobs requiring moorings and the DP rigs basically constituting the rest of the market.
Marketing</span></strong> Well there's a segment in there that does overlap and it's the rigs that are DP and equipped to moor.
So we have ultra-deepwater rigs in Norway that can operate in 100 meters of water because they can moor.
So you have special circumstances and we have other assets that work in any other type of environment other than harsh environment.
We have other assets that can moor in DP.
So we do have some very special rigs that our customers like the optionality.
And in fact there were recently three rigs that can moor in DP and the requirements were mooring and in DP.
So it's a special niche market and we have the majority of those rigs so we like that opportunity for sure.
But as far as giving you a breakdown of which ones can cross over to the midwater sector I don't have those particular numbers to be able to discuss at this time other than to again say that I believe that there is life for the midwater floaters after this market in some capacity but again the world is going to move toward high-spec assets.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Well the thinking more along the lines of the moored assets obviously have a lower operating cost but the sixth-generation rigs are more efficient but come with a higher operating cost given the DP systems.
What's the balance? I mean if you're looking at wells in 3 000 4 000 feet of water depth what's the competitive balance there? (47:03) of the sixth-gen units able to overcome higher operating costs? Marketing</span></strong> Well in a low-cost environment your efficiency's going to overcome to the point that you can't operate the lower-class asset because you'll be below your cash breakeven hurdle especially in a high-cost environment where the spread costs are enormous.
Does that make sense? Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes it does.
Thanks.
Marketing</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And Scott let me just add to that.
It's not just water depth it's also the operating conditions the labor cost environment.
If you look at Australia and compare that no West Africa in Australia the preference would be for a moored asset.
In West Africa in the same water depth the preference would be for a DP asset.
So there's more that goes into this than just the rig capability.
And we'll take our final question today from Mark Brown with Seaport Global Securities.
Hi.
I was wondering on the Transocean Spitsbergen you recently had the OMV contract transferred to that from the Arctic and older vessel built in 1986 and I was just wondering if that's something that you're looking at your fleet if you have a contract on it an older rig and a customer might benefit from a newer rig that has availability.
Are you having discussions like that with other contracting situations with your customers? Marketing</span></strong> Mark we're always open to conversations of that nature especially if we can put a higher-spec asset on an opportunity and keep it going.
So that's something that we do have with the customers.
The Spitsbergen is a unique situation in that we actually ended up with two streams of revenue because the work that was transferred onto the Spitsbergen the actual work that we currently have on the Arctic they're going to run concurrent.
So it wasn't like we were scooting all the backlog onto the OMV work; we actually now have two streams.
The Arctic continued on and we'll have the Spitsbergen starting up the first of the year.
All right thank you.
And just as a follow-up I would be curious to hear your thoughts on consolidation in the industry.
You spoke a little bit about making asset acquisitions but what about company acquisitions? Do you feel that there's a benefit in terms of cost synergies that could be driven out or would there be a benefit for you to perhaps get more exposure to a particular asset class? I'm just curious what your thoughts are on the M&amp;A market today.
Yeah I think there definitely could be some cost savings associated with a combination undoubtedly.
And in terms of our approach to it we're looking to high-grade our fleet.
We're proving that through the newbuild construction that we're doing today and the rigs that we have in the yards but if there was an opportunity out there to acquire a complete company at the right value and at the right time and simultaneously upgrade our fleet we would certainly be interested.
And that concludes our question and answer session for today.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Brad Alexander for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Noah.
And I would like to thank everyone for their participation and questions today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
We will look forward to talking to you again when we report our fourth quarter 2015 results.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the Transocean fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brad Alexander.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Eric.
Welcome to Transocean's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
A copy of the press release covering our financial results along with supporting statements and schedules including reconciliations and disclosures regarding non-GAAP financial measures are posted on the company's website at deepwater.com.
Joining me on this morning's call are: Jeremy Thigpen President and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Mey Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Terry Bonno Senior Vice President Marketing.
During the course of this call participants may make certain forward-looking statements regarding various matters related to our business and company that are not historical facts.
Such statements are based upon the current expectations and certain assumptions of management and are therefore subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially.
Please refer to our SEC filings for more information regarding our forward-looking statements including the risks and uncertainties that could impact our future results.
Also please note that the company undertakes no duty to update or revise forward-looking statements.
Finally to give the participants an opportunity to speak on this call when we get to our question-and-answer session please limit your questions to one initial question and one follow-up question.
Thank you very much.
I'll now turn the call over to Jeremy Thigpen.
Thank you Brad and a warm welcome to our employees customers investors and analysts participating in today's call.
Our performance in the fourth quarter was strong across the board as we reported adjusted net income of $615 million or $1.68 per diluted share on $1.9 billion in revenues.
For the full year our adjusted net income was $1.7 billion or $4.74 per diluted share on $7.4 billion in revenue.
During the quarter our strong revenue efficiency our intense focus on our cost structure and the proceeds from some early contract terminations resulted in an operating margin including G&amp;A of approximately 54%.
For the full year excluding the impact of the Macondo settlement our adjusted operating margin was 47%.
These results reflect the unwavering commitment of the entire Transocean team to delivering the best operational performance in the industry.
So to those Transocean employees who may be listening to today's call thank you for your continued focus and dedication throughout what was a very challenging year for our industry.
In addition to delivering strong financial results I'm pleased to report that Transocean further reduced its total reportable incident rate during the quarter while simultaneously improving uptime and revenue efficiency which was an impressive 95.9% for the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2015 we produced the lowest annual total recordable incident rate in the company's history while delivering our highest annual average revenue efficiency of 96% which further solidifies our position that safety and efficiency go hand in hand.
Once again I would like to recognize and thank our crews and our shore-based personnel for their continued commitment to both protecting each other and the environments in which we operate and maximizing uptime for our customers.
I would also like to take a moment to recognize our marketing and contracts teams.
Despite the extremely challenging market conditions by leveraging our excellent operational performance and introducing some new commercial models and alternative solutions for our customers we added a number of contracts to our backlog late in the fourth quarter.
While most of the awards were of short duration we were pleased to secure some longer-term arrangements in Canada India and the North Sea.
Terry will soon provide more detail regarding each of these fixtures.
Needless to say we were pleased with the company's performance in the fourth quarter and throughout the full year of 2015.
However we recognize that there is more to be done.
As we move through 2016 we will further define and capitalize on opportunities to reduce our incident rate and improve our uptime performance.
We will also take additional actions to streamline and drive efficiencies into our organization and our processes and we will continue to high-grade our fleet.
In an effort to further improve our safety and operational performance in 2016 we are investing time and resources into enhancing our tools procedures and training programs.
Once completed and rolled out companywide we will be in an even stronger position to drive procedural discipline and consistency of performance across our entire fleet.
While investing in new tools and training programs to drive safety and performance improvements we are also reevaluating our organization and our internal processes and identifying opportunities to optimize each.
As discussed in some detail last quarter we are reorganizing internally.
Among other things we have significantly reduced the layers between senior management and the rig.
As a result our organization has become flatter and our operational efficiency has improved materially.
This organizational change has also resulted in the majority of support functions being centralized in Houston with the downsizing or outright elimination of hub offices around the world.
These changes began in late 2015 and should be fully implemented by the end of second quarter of 2016 which will result in additional cost savings as we progress through the year.
In addition to improving the efficiency of our structure you will remember from the last call that we are also defining and implementing innovative approaches to enhance our maintenance activities and to reduce the time and cost required to stack a rig.
I'm pleased to report that we are now realizing the benefits of these approaches.
And as you will hear in Mark's guidance we expect to recognize further cost reductions in both areas as we move through the year.
And finally since we remain confident in the ultimate recovery of commodity prices and the offshore industry we are continuing to high-grade our fleet.
The Deepwater Thalassa the first of four newbuild ultra-deepwater drillships that will operate for Shell on 10-year contracts went on day rate in early February in the Gulf of Mexico.
The second newbuild drillship for Shell the Deepwater Proteus is expected to arrive in the Gulf of Mexico in several weeks where it will begin its contract for Shell in the second quarter.
Lastly the Deepwater Conqueror which has a five-year contract with Chevron is on schedule and due to be delivered later this year.
While we are certainly excited about these additions to our fleet and the future revenue and earnings that they represent we also recognize the need to continually reevaluate the composition capability and marketability of individual rigs within our fleet.
Consistent with our fleet renewal strategy during the quarter we classified two additional rigs the Deepwater Navigator and the GSF Grand Banks as held for sale.
For those keeping score since the start of this downturn we have now 24 floaters either scrapped or held for sale.
As we move forward we will continue to objectively evaluate both our rigs coming off of contract as well as our currently stacked rigs to quickly determine whether or not each individual asset still supports our long-term asset strategy.
Before I hand the call over to Mark who will provide you with additional comments on the company's financial performance and then Terry who will provide an update on the market I would just like to take a moment to stress that the deepwater floater market is the most challenged it has ever been.
To overcome this challenge we will continue with the approach of managing those things within our control such as continuing to improve upon safety and operational performance streamlining the business and our processes and high-grading our fleet and our crews.
Our customers need superior execution and our ability to distinguish Transocean in these areas is what will keep our rigs working and allow us to build on our reputation as the industry's preferred contract driller.
With our $15.5 billion backlog of which approximately 89% is with investment-grade companies and our more than $5 billion of liquidity we have the platform that we need to emerge from this downturn in a much stronger leadership position and I have every confidence that we will.
With that let me hand it over to Mark.
Thank you Jeremy and good day to all.
As we provided extensive detail on the fourth quarter's results in our earnings release I will only briefly touch on the quarter's financial performance during this call.
I will focus instead on providing you with an update to our 2016 guidance and discuss our balance sheet and liquidity position.
For the fourth quarter 2015 we reported net income attributable to controlling interests of $611 million or $1.66 per diluted share.
These results included $4 million or $0.02 per share in net unfavorable items that are detailed in our press release.
Excluding these items adjusted net income was $615 million or $1.68 per diluted share.
Total revenue for the fourth quarter of 2015 increased by $243 million sequentially to $1.85 billion.
Other revenue increased $356 million due to the early terminations of the Polar Pioneer Discoverer Americas and Sedco 714.
Contract drilling revenue decreased $113 million due to reduced activity and rig retirement partially offset by higher ultra-deepwater revenue efficiency and higher demobilization revenue.
The demobilization revenue during the period was primarily associated with the lump-sum revenue recognized in the Polar Pioneer and the completion of the Development Driller II contract in December.
We recognized approximately 80% of the Polar Pioneer's lump-sum payment as revenue in 2015.
The remaining portion associated with the demobilization of the rig will largely be recognized as contract drilling revenue in 2016.
Fourth quarter fleet utilization was 60% down from 70% in the prior quarter.
This resulted in 630 fewer operating days mainly attributable to fewer recontracting opportunities for our harsh-environment and midwater semis [semisubmersibles].
As Jeremy mentioned we achieved another quarter of outstanding revenue efficiency of 95.9% with full-year 2015 averaging 96%.
So that's two consecutive years with revenue efficiency at or above 95%.
And so far in 2016 the uptime performance of our rigs remains strong.
This is attributable to the exceptional focus and execution by operational and technical teams worldwide.
Fourth quarter operating and maintenance expense decreased by $86 million sequentially to $794 million.
Although within our full-year guidance fourth quarter O&amp;M was slightly higher than we forecasted due to unplanned demobilization costs which were offset by increased revenue just discussed.
The quarter was also impacted by lower activity due to 630 fewer operating days during the quarter and the company's actions to reduce onshore and offshore costs.
G&amp;A expenses increased sequentially by $13 million to $58 million.
As discussed during last quarter's call fourth quarter G&amp;A include restructuring costs associated with employee severance payments and office lease termination charges.
Operating margin after including G&amp;A expense was approximately 54% in the quarter driven higher by the impact of early contract terminations included in other revenue mentioned above.
Adjusted for this additional revenue our operating margins were approximately 43% and in line with the prior quarter.
The fourth quarter annual effective tax rate was 13.1% compared with 7.5% in the prior quarter.
The increase was due largely to changes in adjusted pre-tax income currency exchange rates and the impact of jurisdictional and operational structure changes for certain rigs implemented last quarter.
The annual effective tax rate for 2015 was 16.4% lower than guided due largely to the revenue associated with contract terminations during the fourth quarter.
We ended the quarter with $2.34 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
This includes cash flow from operations of $960 million.
Capital expenditures totaled $665 million related to effecting delivery of the Deepwater Proteus and other newbuild capital expenditures during the quarter.
During the fourth quarter we opportunistically repurchased $211 million of debt at a cost of $196 million bringing our total 2015 repurchases to $503 million at a cost of $473 million.
About 85% of the early debt repurchases were of near-dated maturities.
Cash interest for the debt repurchases was approximately $84 million over their remaining term the vast majority of which benefit cash flows over the next three years.
As part of the organizational streamlining currently underway we recently announced our intention to delist from the Swiss Stock Exchange.
The last trading day is scheduled for March 30.
The company's shares will continue to be listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
I will now provide an update on our financial expectations for 2016 which reflect our confidence in continued strong uptime performance and more efficient cost structure.
We'll also update our liquidity expectations through 2017.
Our 2016 revenue efficiency guidance remains at 95%.
Other revenue for 2016 is expected to be between $60 million and $70 million.
This includes customer reimbursables but excludes $200 million of early termination fees associated with the contract cancellations recognized to date in 2016.
After having completed our annual budgeting process we can now update our preliminary cost guidance provided during the previous earnings call.
We expect full-year operating and maintenance expense to range between $2.2 billion and $2.5 billion.
This level is about 12% lower than our earlier expectations due to fewer forecasted operating days associated with the early contract terminations on some of our rigs and limited opportunities for recontracting some of these assets in 2016.
The updated 2016 O&amp;M guidance is also about 40% lower than the Macondo-adjusted 2015 O&amp;M costs.
Of this reduction approximately 70% is associated with reduced activity and lower ultra-deepwater cold-stacking costs and about 10% from lower out-of-service costs.
The remaining 2016 O&amp;M cost decrease is related to more streamlined operating and overhead support models.
As we discussed last quarter we are implementing structural changes to our organization which will improve operating margins earnings and related cash flow.
These cost reductions are partially offset by the reactivation of the Henry Goodrich which will commence its two-year contract with Husky in the second quarter of 2016 the contract announcement of our three newbuild ultra-deepwater drillships the Deepwater Thalassa which Jeremy mentioned as well as the Deepwater Proteus and Deepwater Conqueror in the second and fourth quarters respectively.
Our G&amp;A expense for 2016 is still expected to be approximately $165 million.
The reduced expense expectations are due mainly to our smaller corporate structure and related office closures.
This guidance excludes approximately $5 million in restructuring costs.
We expect annual depreciation expense for 2016 to be between $875 million and $925 million.
Full-year 2016 net interest expense is expected to be between $365 million and $380 million.
The year-over-year decrease is mainly associated with the increased levels of capitalized interest due largely to changes in construction-in-progress balances.
Net interest expense includes capitalized interest and interest income of $175 million and $10 million respectively.
The full-year 2016 annual effective tax rate from continuing operations is expected to be between 28% and 32%.
The increase is a result of the lower level of pre-tax income.
Capital expenditures for 2016 are expected to be approximately $1.4 billion including $1.15 billion for the Deepwater Conqueror Deepwater Pontus and Deepwater Poseidon and $180 million for capitalized interest.
Maintenance CapEx is estimated to approximate $100 million.
This reduced level of maintenance capital expenditures is consistent with our estimate for a limited number of out-of-service days.
Turning now to our financial position we have made the following assumptions and updated liquidity forecasts through 2017.
These include: revenue efficiency of 95%; a limited number of new contract awards with day rates assumed at or near cash breakeven; existing drilling contracts in (17:16); and a working capital release of approximately $600 million in total for the years 2016 – 2017.
Related to 2017 we expect total CapEx of approximately $600 million.
This includes $175 million in newbuild shipyard payments $150 million in capitalized interest and approximately $250 million in maintenance CapEx.
This maintenance CapEx guidance excludes the reactivation of the rigs for potential future contract awards.
Based upon our current forecast our projected liquidity at December 31 2017 remains in the range of $4 billion to $5 billion as the vast majority of the contract termination payments received approximate forecasted operating cash flow under these contracts.
An exception is the recent cancelation of the DD I [Development Driller I] contract.
Unfortunately we will not receive a termination payment as the customer had the contractual option to cancel for convenience.
Based on that this contract cancellation will reduce cash flow by approximately $56 million in 2016 and 2017.
Terry will discuss this in more detail during her prepared comments.
Our projection continues to include our $3 billion undrawn revolving credit facility that remains available us to through mid-2019.
To conclude we are very pleased with our operational results including exceptional revenue efficiency and improvements in our cost structure.
As we become a new organization we are doing more with less but the quality of our services remain high.
We're not satisfied however.
We will continue to challenge the status quo to build on this momentum and strive for even greater performance to help mitigate the reduced utilization.
This concludes my prepared comments and I will now turn the call over to Terry.
Terry? Thanks Mark and good day to everyone.
To simply say the offshore drilling market continues to be challenging is an understatement.
Yet in the fourth quarter our teams onshore and offshore fired on all cylinders to deliver multiple contracts when opportunities were scarce.
With oil prices recently falling as low as the mid-$20s and continuing to hover around $30 a barrel contract terminations that began accelerating in December have continued.
Fortunately because of our strong contracts and relationships we do not have other contracts in our backlog that permit uncompensated cancellation for convenience like the termination we recently announced related to the Global Santa Fe Development Driller I.
I will reiterate what I said in our last earnings call.
Although demand is limited we continue to fight for every opportunity in this highly competitive market.
As a testament to our safety and operational performance and the creativity and tenacity of our marketing teams we've added $378 million of contract backlog since the last earnings call bringing our total 2015 to $763 million.
We have contracted to reactivate the Henry Goodrich in Canada for two years secured contracts to return the Rig 140 in India and the M.G.
Hulme to work.
We have also extended the contract for the Jack Bates in Australia and were awarded over 80 days for the Cajun Express on the Ivory Coast while signing new contracts for active rigs the Sedco 704 in the UK and the Transocean Arctic in Norway.
Our global footprint is vast and our ability to compete for work with our diverse fleet of rigs while capitalizing on our operational excellence is strong.
As evidence of our competitive positioning I am especially pleased to report that since issuing our fleet status report earlier this month we were awarded a six-month contract for the KG2 with an undisclosed operator and we expect to consummate several additional contracts in the near term.
However due to negotiations not yet being final and the competitiveness of the current market we will refrain from commenting specifically on these today.
Our backlog as of February 11 was $15.5 billion the strongest in the industry comprising primarily of IOCs with strong balance sheets.
This balance should provide for solid cash flow generation with 78% of revenues contracted with the IOCs 15% contracted with the independents and 7% contracted with the NOCs.
Turning to the current market challenging conditions are now likely to continue into 2017 negatively impacting both utilization and day rates while limiting recontracting opportunities for all classes of rigs.
Ultra-deepwater rates are near cash operating cost breakeven in most areas and market utilization is down to 79% with 27 rigs idle and 21 cold-stacked.
To provide a little more perspective on the competitiveness of the market the longest-term contracting opportunity currently in the Indian market has attracted 14 rigs from 10 different competitors.
The associated rig classes range from fourth to sixth-generation units with very competitive pricing expected.
Deepwater market utilization is down to 70% with only three fixtures year to date being recorded.
This is coming off a total of 10 fixtures in 2015 primarily in Australia and Asia.
There are currently 10 idle and 11 cold-stacked deepwater rigs.
In India the second ONGC two-year tender attracted eight rigs from seven different contractors ranging from second to fourth-generation rigs.
The bidding on these opportunities will also be very competitive.
Midwater utilization is at 69% with three fixtures contracted year to date for UK and Norway.
This adds to a total of 19 fixtures in 2015.
Currently there are 16 idle midwater rigs and 15 units cold- stacked.
There are 47 cold-stacked units plus 48 floaters that are retired or being held for sale with Transocean accounting for over 40% of the combined total.
We expect these numbers to continue increasing with the overcapacity of supply and near-term lack of demand forcing the retirement of more assets.
The difficult macro conditions are also resulting in more customers terminating contracts early.
This further exacerbates the oversupplied floater market and is a direct result of customers curtailing parts of their offshore programs to preserve liquidity.
Despite the severity of the downturn there are some emerging opportunities we are discussing with customers.
Some are taking the countercyclical approach of contracting low-cost solutions for their programs later in 2016 and into 2017 realizing the benefit of the reduced day rates to their overall project economics.
The jackup market continues to deteriorate as a result of increased market oversupply.
This is also being exacerbated by a few rigs being cold-stacked for scrap and the newbuild deliveries continue unabated.
Utilization and day rates are rapidly declining.
Market utilization is approximately 72% with 119 rigs currently warm-stacked and 65 cold-stacked.
With the relatively low cost associated with stacking a jackup rig scrapping activity is expected to be slower.
Unlike the floater market NOCs are leveraging their local market dominance and renegotiating day rates lower based on the decline in oil prices.
Industry delays of newbuild deliveries for both ultra-deepwater assets and jackups provide some medium-term relief in the excess rig supply.
But continued industry attrition and stacking will contribute the most to permanently correcting the global oversupply situation.
Overall our customers are focused on reducing costs but remain keenly focused on improving operational and safety performance.
Additionally with the duration of this downturn increasing balance sheet strength of drilling contractors and their long-term viability are becoming key selection criteria for operators.
With our strong liquidity industry-leading backlog diversity and excellent safety and operational track record we are positioning Transocean to increase our market-leading position.
As such we are keenly focused on extending both our customer and stakeholder expectations.
This concludes my overview of the market so I will turn it over to Brad.
Thank you Terry.
Eric we are now ready to open the line for questions.
And as a reminder to the participants please limit your comments to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Thanks good morning guys.
Appreciate all the details Jeremy and Mark.
Good morning Angie.
Good morning.
So this is for either one of you Jeremy or Mark.
I know you've talked in the past about your ability to potentially tap into secured financing for $1 billion or more on the four newbuilds with Shell.
Any further color there on the feasibility of that avenue in this market? Thanks Angie.
Look as we discussed in the past we are very fortunate to have four of the best contracts against four of the best ultra-deepwater drillships in the industry.
So those are highly marketable assets to raise additional secured financing.
We are evaluating options currently as you can imagine but it is a tough market out there.
Not only is the energy market difficult but the banks are also having a very tough time of it.
So until we actually get something completed we're not going to comment further on this.
But you can be sure that we are focused on using those assets in the most effective way to be able to raise additional financing to be able to increase our buffer of liquidity as we navigate this downturn.
Okay very very helpful and then one for Terry.
Congrats Terry on getting a handful of contracts in this market obviously very challenging but impressive.
So on the Exxon contract you mentioned no other contracts have cancellations for convenience without compensation.
Could you talk a little bit about the Petrobras contracts and if there's anything unique on the contract as far as termination for convenience or cause? Thanks Angie.
Our contracting relationship with Petrobras is much like our competitors.
It's all the same contract.
So they don't deviate or negotiate anything different with any of us.
They're standard.
So they can terminate for cause but it is for cause.
And we haven't seen anything else from them to suggest that that would be anything other than that.
So we don't...
Our performance...
I'm sorry? I was going to say our performance with Petrobras has been outstanding.
Yes absolutely.
So we don't have anything there.
So what we've said is we've gone through every contract.
We do this all the time.
Every contract is solid.
I think a testament to that look at the early termination we've gotten.
Even though it's a sad thing to early terminate a rig because our crews go home and the rig doesn't operate we've collected over $500 million in the last couple of months on these unfortunate early terminations so that should demonstrate the strength of the contracting opportunities that we have left in our fleet.
Okay that's helpful and then one final one for Jeremy.
I know you mentioned some thoughts in the past on industry consolidation and that your board was actually supportive of consolidation.
Any further thoughts as we go along here in the cycle? Sure.
I would say that we remain committed to high-grading our fleet certainly and we would certainly like to lead the consolidation of the market.
However we have three very important criteria that have to be met in that process.
One is asset quality.
Two would be near-term liquidity.
And three would be a reasonable and realistic valuation.
And so aligning those three is a bit challenging but we're continuing to pursue opportunities and still believe that ultimately we will lead this consolidation effort.
Great thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks Angie.
Next we'll hear from James West with Evercore ISI.
Good morning guys.
Hi James.
Jeremy you mentioned in your prepared comments that Terry had worked on some new commercial solutions that was helpful in adding some backlog during this quarter.
Could you maybe elaborate? Or Terry could you maybe elaborate further on what those new solutions were and how the market is accepting those solutions? Thanks James.
I'll just speak generally.
The primary tweak that we have introduced is really aligning with the expectations of our customers around performance.
And so we've actually put a bit of skin in the game if you will.
Okay.
And worked with them on the day rate and then built our upside based on our performance.
And to date our customers have responded extremely well and our performance has been very solid.
So overall we're earning above market rate on most of these agreements.
So for us we think it's a win-win.
It's better alignment with our customers around performance.
And ultimately their guaranteed day rate may be below market but our overall day rate is actually above market.
So all in both parties seem to be very satisfied with the approach thus far.
Okay that's what I figured it was.
And then I'm assuming you canvassed your customer base or I assume you're constantly doing that.
But with this recent early termination understanding that any other terminations would be paid for by the customer you don't have any of those.
There's no recourse to you.
Are there a large number of rigs that are still up for or potentially could be early terminated here or do you think we're now down to a steady-state working rig environment? Hi James.
I think it's a little early to call that because I think it's dependent upon each of our customers' circumstances.
But we do have such a strong customer base that from our discussions they're just trying get to the other side like we are and they've got their programs planned on the majority of our rigs to continue on.
But that doesn't mean things can't change.
Some of these discussions surprise us too.
But I would just say as of today we're very confident in the contracts.
We don't have any other contracts that don't provide for compensation.
And we're just fighting together to keep the rigs working.
Next we'll move on to Kurt Hallead with RBC.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Kurt.
That's good color so far.
Terry when you went through the market-by-market dynamic and mentioned the available work that's out there and the number of different operators that are bidding on this work I remember in certain times in the past there had been discussion that these operators don't want to take a cut rate and risk safety or performance around that.
But now with so many different assets available to the market has there been a change in the customer dynamic? Are they more focused on getting a lower price now irrespective of the prospective safety or operational dynamics? I don't think any customer would ever sacrifice safety or any operational dynamic.
They have to trust who they're going to work with.
But certainly in order to get their project off the launch pad they're going to fight for the lowest price and they're getting it as you say because Kurt the availability is there.
There are good operators that can certainly do this work.
But I think the dynamic that's changed is they're looking for contract drillers who are going to be viable because from their perspective they can't sacrifice the safety.
And if they're going to contract with someone that may be cutting their maintenance or something like that not that I'm saying they would then I think they've got to question it and I think they're taking that into consideration.
So I think that's the difference.
Okay great.
And my follow-up question for Jeremy you mentioned the consolidation and the different criteria around the prospects for doing any kind of deal and the discipline around that.
It's always hardest for the teams in this business to get deals done at the very trough of the market like we're in right now.
And then it becomes even more difficult to go through your discounted cash flow analysis because somebody you want to consolidate with might have a view that their rig is going to work 90% of the time and you may have a different view on that.
So do you see that there's been a narrowing at all of the gap on the outlook to the bid/ask or any other dynamic that might lead to consolidation in the industry? I don't know that there has been a narrowing necessarily Kurt and I appreciate your comment about the trough.
I'm not sure that anybody knows if we're at that point yet.
I would say that people are definitely becoming more sober about the current reality.
As we've stated and I think our competitors have stated I don't think anybody expects 2016 to get any better and most don't believe that 2017 is going be real pretty.
And so I think as we continue to work through the rest of 2016 you could see that bid and ask come together and you could see more opportunities out there for some consolidation.
Next we'll move on to Sean Meakim with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Sean.
Mark I just wanted to drill in a little more on the cost guidance that you offered.
You noted 20% of the savings coming from SG&amp;A.
How much flex is in that guidance related to lower activity? You noted 70% of the costs are coming from lower activity.
If activity were to undershoot your expectations would there be an impact to SG&amp;A where you could cut that further? How do you think of the flexibility of that SG&amp;A guide? Thanks Sean.
You're thinking about it correctly.
Obviously our costs are very flexible as it relates to both the operational costs and the SG&amp;A costs.
So we discussed both Jeremy and I some of the structural changes that we're implementing at the company.
That's going to continue through the first two quarters.
In addition to that we've taken a view on activity for 2016.
As that activity either increases or decreases our costs will increase or decrease accordingly.
So you can rest assured that we look at this on a monthly basis and we'll update you on a go-forward basis as we see our activity and our rigs going back to work or coming off in the form of cancellations.
Thank you that's helpful.
And then just Jeremy one of your competitors recently announced a deal with a BOP OEM for a sale/leaseback of some of the newer-gen dual-BOP stacks in the Gulf of Mexico.
So I'm just curious if you have any thoughts on the prospects of that type of arrangement since you have some newer rigs with a similar profile.
There has been a bit of publicity around that I've noticed.
I will say we have obviously been in conversations with various equipment providers.
And I don't know if it's the same model that Diamond and GE have entered into but my guess is they're probably fairly similar.
For us we see some positives and some negatives.
On the positive side there's obviously an impact to near-term liquidity for the drilling contractor which is good.
And we also think it's positive to align critical equipment providers with drilling contractors with ultimately the operators to improve uptime performance.
So those are two good things and things we've certainly considered.
For us though there appear to be two challenges.
One is while we recognize the benefit of near-term liquidity when you sell the BOP and the associated spares the ongoing cost from the equipment providers the healthcare contract if you will is a bit prohibitive.
And so that's a concern for us.
And the other piece of it is – if you think about that cost of the contract it really increases your total cost of ownership.
So while you get the benefit near term the total cost of ownership longer term becomes a bit of a challenge for us.
The other thing for us is we have been unbelievably successful in improving our uptime performance for all subsea-related equipment.
And so when you look at the incremental cost associated with the service agreements plus we don't see a lot of incremental opportunity of improvement that this could potentially bring for us we're not quite sure that the model works as we understand it today.
Having said that we are working with our equipment providers to look at other ways to align different models that may make more sense for us and also improve our uptime performance on our equipment.
So it's something that we're pursuing.
We're talking to equipment providers.
My guess is the model will be different than what was announced by Diamond but it's something that we're looking at.
Next we'll hear from Dan Boyd with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi thanks.
You mentioned that no other contracts can be canceled without penalty.
Is it fair to say that if a rig were canceled at this point you'd be made whole from an operating cash flow perspective? Hi Dan.
We really don't go into the type of detail on individual contracts as to what the negotiated position is.
So I really can't give you a lot of color on that.
Okay.
And then lastly just as I look at your newbuilds and those that are contracted and you look at the ones with Shell they were already delayed.
Are you in current negotiations to further delay those newbuilds or are all those looking pretty solid from a scheduling standpoint? I would say that we will continue to look at all options as this market unfolds.
We've already announced the delays of the final two Shell newbuilds.
We've announced delays on the five uncontracted jackups.
We've announced delays on the two uncontracted drillships.
But as this market continues to unfold if it continues to look bleak we obviously could go back to our shipyards where we have great relationships and talk to them about further delays.
But Dan let's be specific.
As it relates to the two Shell rigs those were delayed a year each at the request of Shell.
At the moment there's no discussions ongoing with regard to delaying those rigs any further.
We understand from Shell that they have programs for those rigs when they come out in 2017 and 2018 so there's no further discussions on that.
What Jeremy is referring to is the uncontracted rigs.
And next we'll move on to Darren Gacicia with KLR Group.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just with regard to lowering costs on a support base especially when I think of it in regards to other costs as you guys report it when you talk about closing bases how many were originally open? What is that number at now? What are we thinking of moving to? And what are some of the other moving parts both in terms of process and in terms of just straight up how you cut those costs? I'd love to get a little more granular on some of those points.
Sorry Darren I know you'd like to get a little more granular but that's a lot of detail.
And I think you should probably just stick with Mark's guidance that looks like a 40% year-over-year reduction in costs and all of those fall into that.
Sure.
Does it generate from consolidating different separately operating companies that were acquired in the past and how that consolidates or how does that – there's some commentary to be had about what's going on internally.
I think internally it's just around business simplification.
This is an organization that had multiple acquisitions over the years.
Maybe not all of them were fully integrated.
And we've been in a market where everything's been up and to the right for a number of years.
And in a market like that sometimes you build in infrastructure you build in processes that maybe you don't necessarily need and especially as you're shrinking to a much smaller business than you were a few years ago.
And so we're just taking a fresh look at our entire infrastructure all of our positions all of our roles all of our processes to try to simplify and drive waste and cost out of the business.
And so it's full scale across the board.
Got you.
If I could just take one more in a different direction.
I think you had mentioned in the prepared comments about debt repurchases further out into the maturity range.
How are you weighing those versus liquidity and keeping cash and liquidity available on hand because clearly there's some value in buying discounted debt? How do you weigh the benefit of that and how lenders may look at that as well versus holding cash on hand? What's the balance of the logic there? Darren I think it's pretty obvious that liquidity over the near term near term being the next three to five years is of the utmost important to us.
If you look at what we have done to date about 10% of the funds we've used to repurchase debt has been focused on debt outside of that near-term liquidity window.
So obviously that indicates to you that our most important focus is on maintaining and increasing liquidity.
But we will opportunistically take a look at buying some of the heavily discounted debt securities that we feel are vastly mispriced in the market.
Next we'll hear from Ian Macpherson with Simmons.
Hey good morning just one for me please.
Mark did you already impart or would you mind imparting the working capital reduction expectation specifically for this year? Again what I did indicate in my prepared comments was that it would be $600 million over the next two years.
That's 2016 and 2017.
And it's roughly equal so a little more this year.
I would say somewhere in that $350 million/$250 million split would not be too far off.
Okay good.
That's all I have thanks a lot.
Thanks Ian.
And next we'll hear from Robin Shoemaker with Citibank Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
So Mark I would like to ask about the revolver.
On a lot of these calls we're hearing about restructured revolvers in some cases being reduced in size in exchange for more generous covenants which is what prompts my question.
But can you describe what covenants or restrictions might apply to your ability to access the revolver in the next year two years? Thanks Robin.
Yes I'll even go further than that.
I'll give it to you through the middle of 2019 as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
As you probably read in our 10-K we have one financial covenant in our revolver and that's a debt-to-cap covenant of 60%.
We're currently sub-40% on that and we have to incur significant additional reductions in our capital base or increases in our debt to get close to that level.
So we have unfettered access to that revolver through the middle of 2019 when it matures and specifically focused on our internal projections and models.
So we don't have the three or four different financial covenants you would typically find in these revolvers because this was negotiated during a time when the company was still investment-grade.
Inc.</span></strong> Right right.
Understood okay.
My other question is more strategic.
But in the downturn drilling contractors always weighed this issue of length of term versus day rate.
And in past downturns the strategy is always keep the term short if the day rates are very weak and under pressure.
But as you continuously take a fresh look at the market and the opportunities that may be out there I just wonder if it's any different this time where there are some advantages to term even if the rate is just slightly cash positive or maybe if you could share some thoughts on that.
Thanks Robin.
I would say there aren't a lot of opportunities that are out there and those that are out there we're chasing aggressively.
As long as it's a good solid professional customer that is creditworthy and we know they're going to pay their bills we're getting aggressive.
And I think as Terry said in her prepared remarks a lot of these new opportunities are at or near cash breakeven.
So I don't know that there's a lot of term be had out there.
Those that are out there I think we secured in Q4 so we are just aggressively pursuing what's available.
Our final question comes from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Terry my question relates to stabilization of demand or what price level would be required to maybe stabilize demand.
It's been just falling for the last several quarters now.
So what do you think the price level would be? Hi Waqar.
I think what the customers are saying they just need to see some stability.
I think that that would be the most positive thing that can happen.
And in the conversations we're having with our customers the majority are saying they believe that there will be some stability toward the end of 2016.
Does that immediately translate into demand? It's not going to immediately but at least it gives them a basis to have some more time to have thoughtful consideration of the type of programs that they would like to push out there.
You can read and see and certainly in our conversations that they're going take a pause until they get some comfort.
But again we just need to have some stability and get that price moving in a positive direction.
And that stability do you need that at a $50 or $60 level or higher or even at a lower level? And then recently do you see any differences where it could stabilize first or maybe grow first as well? I think you need to look at what our customers are telling us and a lot of the things we're seeing now is that they are resetting their cost basis.
I think that there was a report that came out about Norway.
And they were saying they had to take significant costs out of their structures.
And now that $35 a barrel in Norway if you can imagine doesn't look so bad.
So I think it's case by case customer by customer and area by area.
And it's a really difficult thing to nail exactly what is the rate because it's so dependent on the area of operation and all the constraints involved with that.
But again I think it's just confidence and some stability.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
At this time I'd like to turn things back over to Brad Alexander for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Eric and thank you to everyone for your participation and questions today.
If you have any further questions please feel free to contact me.
We will look forward to talking to you again when we report our first quarter 2016 results.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thanks for your participation.