Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2011 Resource Capital Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Towanda and I will be your coordinator for today.
(Operator instructions.) I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp conference all for Q1 ended March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the safe harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words “believe anticipate expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s report filed with the SEC including its reports in the form 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular item one on the form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
This is a caution not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as a (inaudible).
This company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First for a few highlights.
For the three months ended March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 we had adjusted net income of $15.7 million or $.26 per share diluted as compared to $10.1 million or $.27 per share diluted for the 3 months ending March 31<sup>st</sup> 2010.
Estimated REIT taxable income for the three months ended March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 was $8.6 million or $.14 per share diluted as compared to $9.3 million or $.24 per share diluted for the three months ended March 31<sup>st</sup> 2010.
We announced a dividend of $.25 per common share for the quarter or $17.6 million in aggregate which was paid on April 28<sup>th</sup> 2011 to stockholders on record on March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
Book value increased to $6.08 per common share as of March 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 an increase of almost 2% since December 31<sup>st</sup> 2010.
With those highlights out of the way I will not introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Blume our Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate Lending David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer Christopher Allen our Senior Vice President of our Leverage Loan Business and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
In my opinion Q1 2011 saw great improvement in the outlook for Resource Capital.
We saw an increase in our net interest income of over 35% and revenues grew by more than 50% compared to last year at the same time.
We made significant investments and restarted our commercial mortgage origination platform.
We are truly a new company.
Including those loans that we are committed to sell we have strong real estate loans that we are committed to sell.
We have shrunk our pre-2008 real estate B-noted Mezzanine loan exposure to under $137 million from a peak of $312 million in December of 2007.
We are extremely well capitalized have access to all types of liquidity and are prepared to grow.
With these results and with our new investments I reiterate as I have many times before that we are dedicated to a $1.00 cash dividend for 2011.
We as managers and shareholders are working hard to build a company that can both pay a substantial dividend and increase shareholder value by building and growing businesses and business platforms.
During the quarter we took the opportunity to sell two more large legacy subordinate loan positions over $40 million of real estate loan balance continuing our reduction of exposure to the subordinate positions originated before the financial crisis.
Although we believe that these loans will be collectible they were subordinate to much larger loans and exposed us to potential binary risks.
So we considered it prudent to pair back those positions and focus our capital on new investments.
In doing so we took a loss of $2 million as recorded this quarter.
We maintained our general reserves for real estate loans and have a $10.5 million balance at the end of the quarter.
Q1 of 2011 was marked by many positive events including earning $.26 of adjusted net income with over $200 million of cash on hand doing that and making new investments of over $60 million into commercial real estate loans our syndicated bank loan business and commercial finance.
All areas were able to achieve projected pre-tax returns on those investments of 12% to 25% on new dollars invested.
Finally and in some ways most importantly we put into overdrive our newly restarted commercial real estate mortgage business.
It had begun to put out the massive cash balances we have been carrying over the last year or two.
We expect to finalize new lines of credit for this business within the next few weeks.
Included in this cash balance is the net proceeds of the offering we completed at the end of last quarter.
We expect that these dollars will be deployed in the next three or six months into new investments with a focus on directly originated whole loans and mezzanine loans aiming to achieve mid-teen returns or better.
The balance of restricted cash should be used for whole loan origination in a four to six month time period.
In my opinion while doing this reshuffling we’ve ended up with a much-improved company more stable and able to seize more upside.
Going forward we will focus on expanding our real estate lending operation finding new investments and syndicated bank loans and finally building franchise value at our commercial finance business.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Dave- Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corps commercial mortgage portfolio has a current committed balance of approximately $657 million in a granular pool of 41 individual loans.
Our portfolio of commercial mortgage positions is in components as follows.
78% whole loans 15% mezzanine loans and 7% B-notes.
Of note in our portfolio composition is the significant increase in the percentage of self-originated whole loans and the corresponding decrease in our subordinate debt positions.
Year-over-year we have realized a 15% increase in our whole loan positions from 63% in May of 2010 to the 78% we have today and the corresponding decrease in our subordinate debt position is from 26% mezzanine loans and 11% B-notes in May of 2010 as compared to the 15% and 7% respectably today.
The collateral base underlying the portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets with a portfolio breakdown of 34% multifamily 14% office 30% hotel 14% retail and 8% other such as light industrial and self-storage.
We continue to see both sale and financing transaction volumes increasing and liquidity returning to the market.
And we continue to experience pay offs in our portfolio.
During Q1 through today we closed three new loans totaling approximately $26 million and have another three loans totaling approximately $30 million that are approved and in the closing process for a total of $65 million in aggregate new loan production.
We currently have a full forward pipeline of approximately $200 million of new transactions and will continue to convert select opportunities to loans for our portfolio.
We see increased liquidity in all segments of the market and after the close of the quarter we again took advantage of this increased liquidity by shelling out of two subordinate depositions; one B-note and one mezzanine loan at extremely high dollar prices.
We still see substantial activity in the subordinate debt market as large funds and other market participants look for ways to deploy capital without the benefit of direct whole loan origination capability.
RSO’s relatively small remaining portfolio sub-debt positions was originated during a time when there was still good relative value in this space and while we were fully establishing our whole loan origination platform.
These subordinate depositions tend to be in complex multiparty capital structures and we view our ability to exit at high dollar prices as a way to eliminate binary risks from our portfolio after having collected several years of high quality income from these positions.
The ability to sell and remove ourselves from these complicated subordinate depositions provides additional equity that we will deploy into new whole loans in situations where we are the sole lender.
We are impressed with the resilience of our existing portfolio and pleased to see that asset-specific business plans are again progressing and borrowers value creation plans being realized.
Across the portfolio leases are being signed in office buildings rents are increasing in multi-family properties occupancy and average daily rate numbers at hotels are rising and so on.
In addition we are again hearing from borrowers about unsolicited offers on properties and other situations that will result in pay offs of loans in our portfolio.
From a credit perspective we note improving metrics across the portfolio with the majority of the property securing our loans having improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and continuing to trend in an upward direction.
I am pleased to report that our commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be current with no defaults.
The real estate debt market has definitely returned and we continue to observe a significant increase in financing activity from banks insurance companies and from reconstituted CMBS programs.
We’re again seeing situations where multiple lenders are competing for the same loans.
The steadily increasing flow of real estate finance capitals is obviously a positive sign for the market in general and for our portfolio in specific as we see a number of our portfolio properties readying for takeout financing.
RSO benefits from our focus and expertise in directly originating loans between approximately $10 million and $20 million.
And even though there are a large number of capital sources in the market to make new loans there are relatively few market participants focusing on these institutional middle market sized loans.
Our full-forward pipeline provides opportunities to directly originate whole loans at new market valuations premium spreads and optimal structure.
There are hundreds of millions of dollars of loans coming due and not enough debt providers to address the total financial demand as properties trade or the existing owners commit new capital to existing situations (inaudible) financing at a new and much lower basis.
Having kept our nationwide origination asset management and servicing platform intact during the pullback and lending over the last few years provides a distinct advantage as we are again very active on the new origination front.
Our borrowers and the intermediary community are extremely familiar with RSO as a capital provider and our key professionals have remained in the market representing RSO’s lending platform.
This continuity is a unique and distinguishing feature and provides the market with a proven platform with the same team that has closed approximately $1.5 billion of loans.
As our deal flow continues to increase we are poised to take advantage of opportunities for well structured transactions of premium spreads in today’s market and to match our production levels with our existing financing facilities and capital availability.
RSO will continue to benefit from loan repayment or select additional loan sales as we reinvest well-structured higher yielding assets into our long term locked in financing (inaudible).
With that I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I’d like to review the first part of our investment in commercial finance and then introduce Christopher Allen to discuss the second aspects syndicated bank loans.
In January we transformed our previous investment in leasing into a new one and now we own our interest through a joint venture we formed with Lead Financial and Guggenheim Securities.
This joint venture is going well and is building its balance sheet its proprietary vendor finance programs and its staff.
Remember we also have warrant to purchase 48% of the business at a nominal price.
These warrants give us the upside we are looking for while the coupon gives us the ability to generate a nice current return.
Stay tuned for the progress of this venture.
While we wait we will simply flip the 10% cash and pick coupons.
As for syndicated bank loan business I wanted to introduce Christopher Allen our Senior Vice President of Leverage Loans who will walk us through our existing portfolio our new purchase of the management (inaudible) of Churchill Pacific Asset Management CPAM now called RCAM.
Chris has been a senior officer here since our inception in 2005 and I welcome him as a participant in these calls.
Thank you Jonathan.
I’m very pleased to take a few moments to discuss our accomplishments in the bank loan phase.
As Jonathan mentioned I’m the Senior Vice President of Resource Capital and the Chief Operating Officer of Apidos Capital Management and one of the founding partners of that business along with Gretchen Bergstresser.
The bank loan business has grown in importance at Resource Capital and I’m glad to have the opportunity to discuss that today and in the future.
Resource Capital has direct exposure to bank loans through three CLOs managed by Apidos and it earns fees on additional bank loans through its ownership of Resource Capital Asset Management formerly Churchill Pacific Asset Management.
Resource Capital’s three bank loan portfolios have a carrying value of $905.3 million and approximately $930.9 million in par value.
Resource Capital Asset Management has assets under management of approximately $1.8 billion.
For the most recent quarter the three CLOs that the company owns produced interest income 33% higher than in Q1 of 2010.
Apidos CLOs have produced annualized equity returns greater than 23% since inception.
The current cash on cash returns based upon our original investment of $79.5 million is approximately 33%.
The carrying value of our bank loan portfolio is approximately $49 million representing approximately $.69 of book value per share such that the return on equity of our bank loan investments is approximately 54% with remaining upside accretion from discounted loans and securities purchased of nearly $26 million.
Over all in my opinion the portfolios are in excellent condition.
They remain very diversified across industries.
The average position size is about 40 basis points or roughly $1.2 million.
The highest concentrations are in healthcare business services broadcasting and entertainment and printing and publishing.
Included in the top ten holdings are issuers such as Community Health Systems Sun Guard Data Systems Cablevision and Flextronics.
The average rating between a B2 for Moody’s and a B+ from SMP; strong ratings for loans suitable for CLOs.
There is very little triple T exposure of less than 5% across the portfolios about 2% of second liens and no bonds.
We continue to forecast a very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next two years.
Our belief seems consistent with that of other market participants.
According to SMP’s leverage commentary and data published on April 1<sup>st</sup> of this year there were no loan defaults in March.
As a result the lagging 12-month loan default rate fell to 1.11% by amount and 1.62% by number both three year lows.
Currently the Apidos last 12-month default rate is .11%.
Our watch list declined by more than 10% for the quarter.
All of our deals have increasing amounts of principal cushion versus last quarter and a year ago.
According to Citi Group’s Global Structured Credit Strategy Report of December of last year Apidos is 6<sup>th</sup> out of 48 US CLO managers for having the highest average cushion and the CLOs.
During the downturn in 2009 Apidos had the highest cushion according to the same research.
Stemming from Resource Capital’s successful experience with bank loans managed by Apidos Resource Capital has sought to be a beneficiary of manager consolidation in the loans base.
On February 24<sup>th</sup> Resource Capital completed its first loan manager consolidation with the purchase of Pacific Asset Management for $22.5 million.
Now renamed Resource Capital Asset Management it manages five CLOs totaling approximately $1.8 billion in asset (inaudible) management.
By owning the manager Resource Capital is entitled to the fees earned from managing bank loans which tend to be very stable over time.
Resource Capital Asset Management expects to receive management and incentive fees in excess of $33 million over the next several years earning expected IRRs of approximately 22% pre-tax with a possibility of additional upside.
Going forward we believe that the trend of manager consolidation will continue and that Resource Capital will be a major beneficiary.
We regularly review additional acquisition candidates.
The new issue CLO market is becoming much more attractive as well.
Credit spreads have returned to more normalized levels post crisis and the risk appetite of investors has returned.
In addition the bank loan asset class has shown that it has performed very well fundamental.
With triple-A lending at attractive levels we should have the opportunity to continue to earn pre-tax returns in the high teens or low 20s.
We have deployed our efforts on behalf of Resource Capital with excellent results and look forward to continuing and expanding that success in the future.
Please feel free to contact me if you would like more information on our bank loan activities.
Thank you Chris.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to quickly walk us through the financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Our estimated REIT taxable income for Q1 2011 was $8.6 million or $.14 per common share.
I want to add a few thoughts about the REIT taxable income for Q1 2011.
There were two non-cash losses from GAAP earnings to arrive at the estimated REIT income number namely losses from a real estate joint venture of $4.4 million and net [Break in audio] to tax adjustments of $1.6 million from our foreign TRS subsidiaries for losses previously recognized on the books.
These combined non-cash items of approximately $6.4 million representing timing differences reduced REIT income by nearly $.11 per share without effecting our ability to pay the dividend which of course was $.25 per share as declared by RSA board.
At March 21<sup>st</sup> 2011 RCC’s investment portfolio was financed with approximately $1.5 million total indebtedness that included $1.4 billion CDO senior notes $51.5 million sourced from our unsecured (inaudible) subordinated debentures related to our two TruPS issuances in 2006 and approximately $15 million of repurchase agreement debt from our new Wells Fargo facility.
We ended the period with $427.2 million in book equity.
RCC’s borrowing of $1.5 billion had a weighted average rate of 1.07% at March 31<sup>st</sup> a sign of the ongoing low interest rate environment.
We remain committed to our long stated philosophy of maximizing match funding and our investment portfolio is almost completely match funded by long term borrowers at quarter end.
We continue to pass all of the critical interest coverage and over collateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and three bank loan CLOs through April of 2011.
Each of these structures performed and generated stable cash flow to RCC in Q1.
The CRE CDOs produced over $5.1 million and bank loan CLOs generated over $6.3 million of cash flow during the period ending March 31.
Of note as of April 30<sup>th</sup> we have an excess of $167 million in investable cash in these deals comprised of approximately $53 million in the bank loan CLOs and $114 million in the real estate deals respectively.
This cash is available for reinvestment in our CLOs and CDOs to generate very attractive spreads over the cost of the associated debt and strengthen our overall position in each structure.
For example during the period ended March 31 as Dave Blume mentioned we originated two new CRE loans for a total of $18.3 million at stated rates before exit and origination fees of 6.75% and 6.25% respectively.
Also noted by Dave we see numerous additional opportunities to originate new loans in the near term as we sell some of our legacy positions and reinvest the accumulated cash in these financing structures.
Our provision for loan losses of $2.6 million is almost entirely from losses on CRE loans.
As John indicated $3 million of provisions came from the sale of a B-note which closed after quarter end.
$400 000 was added for a previously impaired whole loan and $700 000 was added to our reserves for costs related to the sale of a mezzanine loan which was sold at par.
On the bank loan portfolio positive credit trends remain and accordingly reduced our reserves by $0.5 million.
Overall our credit otherwise remains stable and notably all of our commercial real estate loans; both legacy and newly underwritten loans are performing.
Our leverage is 3.4 times.
When we consider our TRuPS issuances which have a remaining term of 25 years as equity we see our leverage drop to 3.0 times.
Focusing on real estate we began 2010 approximately 2.3 times levered on our CRE CDOs.
After giving affect to the debt repurchases throughout 2010 and affect to year to date 2011 activity we ended the March quarter a mere 1.5 times levered on our real estate portfolio.
Our GAAP book value per share was $6.08 at March 31<sup>st</sup> up $.09 from $5.99 at December 31.
The change quarter over quarter resulted primarily from earnings of $.19 per share improved marks on our CMDS portfolio of $.07 per share a reflection of the rally in that market $.06 per share from our common stock sales and improvement in the marks on our cash flow hedges of $.02.
All of this offset by the dividend of $.25 per share.
And all these per share amounts are based on our new share camp post (inaudible) at the end of the March quarter.
At March 31 our equity is allocated as follows.
Commercial real estate and CMBS is 71% commercial finance is 24%; this breaks down as 17% in bank loans and bank loan management combined and 7% in small ticket leasing enterprise.
We also have 5% of our equity in structured notes.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thanks Dave.
We are excited to reap the benefits of new opportunities we have already seized and to take advantage of even more opportunities.
But we have started to do so already and we look forward to sharing the results with you in the future period.
Now we will open up this call to any questions if there are any.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions.) Your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and congratulations on a very solid Q1 and start to 2011.
I guess this is for Dave Blume.
I just wanted to I was trying to take as many notes as I could but I’ll make sure I understand the origination activity year to date and pending.
Was it two loans for $18.3 million that actually closed in Q1? Since Q1 through today because we had some other loans closing it was a total of $26 million and it was three.
And Steve that includes future funding components to those loans whereas the $18.3 was the amount funded physically during Q1.
So year to date we’re at three loans through today three new loans at roughly $26 million.
Exactly actually no yes but with another $39 million that are in the closing process.
And that’s what I wanted to go to as part two of my question.
So as far as pending you would expect to close before maybe June 30 you know how many loans and for what dollar amount would you be expecting? Well (inaudible) I think that we’re going to close at $39 million in the next month and we probably expect another $15 to $20 million after that.
And you should see basically the way it works is you know you know as you start up this process every quarter will be more and then you’ll see exponential growth into the next quarter into closing.
So we have apps that are going out now that in a pipeline of close to $200 million and so when we talk about putting out the money into this into our restricted cash in our CRE CDOs we expect that to be three to six months before we get that all invested.
Now I keep doing Dave Blume a disservice because I keep selling legacy loans granted at par or close to it so I keep replenishing those (inaudible) a little bit making his job a little bit harder.
Well it sounds like he’s got a lot on the desk.
Would it be reasonable to think that you know once because you are building this momentum that like somewhere around like at least $50 million or maybe $75 million a quarter does that seem like a reasonable closing volume looking out to the second half? Yes.
Okay.
And then- I just want to address that as we get Steve just that’s probably right for the next few quarters but after that we’ll probably see a little bit of a hockey stick.
Okay.
Because just the work that’s going on in the front end now is massive.
And my last question you touched on it in your answer you know you’ve sold I believe it’s four loans now between what you did in Q1 and what you have planned to sell here in Q2 of these subordinate loans.
Do you feel I mean have you about called out what you needed to or could we see some additional selling out of the portfolio from the legacy? Well I mean to be honest we’re not actively selling but people are actively buying.
So if we get a call tomorrow that says “Hey we’ll take a loan off your hands at par ” after we’ve made 9% through the financial crisis on a loan that is not really that important to us and has binary risks we always look at it.
So there are a lot of private equity firms a lot of private equity real estates firms that are looking at the legacy loans as a good way to position themselves in these buildings.
And they want to control the buildings a lot of times we own the first loft or the controlling piece so they’re very valuable to these players.
So if we got a call tomorrow we could sell something.
But it’s not as though any of these loans were that we picked up the phone and said we wanted to sell it to somebody specifically.
Got it.
So it’s really a matter of somebody who’s strategically involved in that particular property as far as or for and that’s how they actually know about your role in the first place.
Right.
Or it may be somebody who’s just calling the universe to see like we like Manhattan we like LA we like some area and we want to be involved.
We like these buildings they look up to CAP structures and come talk to us about it.
Or it’s the owner of it and you know he’s trying to reposition it in a partnership.
There’s lots of different scenarios that can happen here.
But no there’s nothing on the horizon that we’re actually marketing.
As of this point we’re happy with what we have.
Okay.
Sounds good.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Gabe Poggi with FBR Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for all the color; it was great on the conference call.
Sorry.
It might have been a little too long but we’re trying- transparency is our middle name so.
First question is you guys mentioned that you’ve reduced your balance of pre-2008 mezzanine B-note exposure to $137 million.
Can you remind me what the pre-2008 balance is in the first mortgages and what those first mortgage’s LTD is give or take right now.
Just because I know you have a bigger balance of firsts.
What I’m trying to get to is the balance of the legacies and the new stuff you’ve done.
Well it’s actually I mean we haven’t really done any new mezzanines since then so and I may be wrong in this calculation and we’ll get back to you if I am but my gut is that it was about $660 million of loans so we have $137 million of pre-2008 mezz loans we haven’t really we’ve (inaudible) a small bit not much.
So you’d be talking about $500 million of first loans first mortgages.
Right.
But how much of that $520 is before it was originated? Oh the bulk of it probably $440 million or so because we just started putting on new mortgages.
Okay that’s helpful.
Then in- And then you asked about LCDs they were underwritten at 75%.
Probably at some point they had gone to 95%.
They’re probably certainly on the multis back to 75% and it depends but it’s probably I would say it’s slightly north of 80% probably on kind of an underwritten today.
The whole whole loan I’m talking about.
Got ya.
That’s helpful.
When you guys talked about kind of your capital recycling Jonathan you just mentioned you’re selling loans if there’s active bidders for loans and Dave is getting new capital recycle.
What’s the general sprint pick up you guys are getting inside the CDOs as you recycle between- Well I would say that if it’s an old mezzanine loan it’s probably break even to probably like if you sell some at 80% we’re probably getting 8% you know on a new whole loan though so it’s a much better asset then we owned before plus some fees here and there and other place.
But if we have a whole loan that’s prepaid which is also happening we’re probably picking up 400 basis points.
Got ya.
But all the stuff we’ve been selling has been mezz and subordinate risk.
Right.
And then one last question.
Can you just provide a little more color on what you think kind of the go for and what opportunity set is for LEAF? I know you guys have a 10% if you clip your coupons but kind of the bigger picture down the line for LEAF.
Basically they’re rebuilding their balance sheet with our capital very successfully.
And so as the quarters go by according to our position there we get more and more of a you know cash coupon out of them as well as we own 48% in nominal price and warrants and you know eventually we believe the banks are starved for leasing companies and other types of really high quality lending opportunities that are done on an actuarial basis through a you know a systematic approach.
And I think that these kinds of companies will trade it big multiples within the next 36 months.
So you know we’re fairly bullish on the prospects there.
Thank you guys.
Good quarter.
(Operator Instructions.) And with no further questions in queue I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen for closing remarks.
Again we appreciate your support during the quarter and the past few quarters and we look forward to performing for you in the future.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining today’s conference.
That concludes the presentation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2011 Resource Capital Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janeida [ph] and I will be your operator for today.
(Operator instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over your host for today Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp conference call for the second quarter ended June 30 2011.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the safe harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s report filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular item 1-A on the form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
For a few highlights we had adjusted net income of $18 million or $0.25 per share diluted and $33.7 million or $0.51 per share diluted for the for the three and six months ended June 30 2011 respectively as compared to $10.9 million or $0.24 per share diluted and $21.1 million or $0.51 per share diluted for the three and six months ended June 30 2010 respectively which is an increase of $7.1 million or 65% for the quarter and $12.6 million or 60% for the six months.
We announced a dividend of $0.25 per common share for the quarter or $18.6 million in aggregate which was paid on July 27 2011 to stockholders of record on June 30 2011.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Blume Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; Christopher Allen Senior Vice President of our Leverage Loan Business; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
The second quarter of 2011 saw consistency for resource capital but it was also a very active period in terms of moving forward with our plans.
We continue to build our investment portfolio while paring some older and riskier real estate positions.
In fact we were originated more than $61 million of real estate whole loans for the quarter.
This is self originated by our team and are in the process of closing even more after June 30 a tremendous effort.
We saw an increase in our net interest income of over $2.7 million or 17% for the quarter ending June 30 versus a year ago and $7.2 million or 25% for the six months ended June 30 2011 versus the first six months of 2010.
We sold some positions and received over $50 million of cash from payments in sales we impaired our last low rated 2007 fixed CMBS bond.
We converted two real estate positions to equity ownership and after the quarter ended bought another real estate property very opportunistically a very active quarter and one that is positioning us to attain our goals.
While credit generally continued to improve we ran certain impairments through the balance sheet including as I mentioned our last 2007 CMBS fixed rate bond of almost $5 million and real estate loans which we converted to equity.
We also had a very unique loan provision on the leverage loan side of the book for two loans.
Loan losses in general decreased significantly from our prior year but were still elevated due to our one-time items.
We believe the credit environment is still improving for real estate and remains extremely benign on the corporate side but we know with caution the weaker macro situation.
These activities mark good progress for our company.
We are focusing on making the high-quality present and future investments so while getting rid of some older subordinate positions; we have been investing in new senior secured real estate opportunities.
Although most of these new loans did not close in the quarter we now have closed approximately $100 million since restarting our commercial real estate lending program post financial crisis.
Our pipeline is substantial as David Bloom will discuss.
In addition we started ramping our newest CLO of commercial syndicated bank loans which we expect to close within a short period of time.
We continue to build our lead team venture and expect it to turn a profit as a company within the next few quarters.
The financing markets are back and we’re actively pursuing opportunities to grow our net investment income.
It is nice to know that banks and others continue to want to grow their business with us.
We are nearing completion of new facilities and are excited by the prospects of new capital to fuel our growth.
We are well capitalized have access to all types of liquidity and are prepared to grow.
With these results and with our new investments I reiterate as I have before many times that we are dedicated to a $1 cash dividend for 2011.
the second quarter of 2011 was marked by many positive events including earning $0.25 of adjusted net income with over $235 million of cash on hand to invest and making new investments of over $206 million during the quarter and $387 million for the six months into commercial real estate loans syndicated bank loans and commercial finance all areas where we expect to achieve pre-tax returns on 12% to 25% on new dollars invested.
We believe that our investment results will improve dramatically as we get more fully invested.
We are now only 3.4 times levered and need to invest the $235 million of cash available to us.
Stay tuned for the next 3 to 6 months.
We are confident that this reshuffling selling risky legacy debt and originating higher yielding new senior loans has resulted in a much improved company more stable and able to seize more upside.
We are proud that we are able to do this while maintaining meaningful cash return to our shareholders.
Going forward we will focus on expanding our real estate lending operations finding new investments in syndicated bank loans and finally building franchise value in our commercial finance business.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Dave.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage portfolio has a current committed balance of approximately $706 million in a granular pool of 46 individual loans.
On our call last quarter the portfolio had a balance of 664 million however as Jon mentioned in the second quarter we sold two legacy positions and received two pay-offs totaling $52 million which reduced the size of the portfolio $612 million.
There has been a net increase of $94 million in the size of our portfolio since our last call and with our full forward pipeline we see the size of our portfolio continuing to grow appreciably.
The collateral base underlying the portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets with a portfolio breakdown of 37% multifamily 11% office 27% hotel 11% retail and 14% other such as light industrial and self-storage.
Our portfolio of commercial mortgage positions is in components as follows 80% whole loans 14% mezzanine loans and 6% B-notes.
Still of note in our portfolio composition is the significant increase in the percentage of our self originated whole loans and the corresponding decrease in our subordinated debt positions.
We continue to benefit from a 15% year-over-year increase in our self originated whole loan positions from 65% in August of 2010 to 80% we have in portfolio today.
This mix shift is the result of our origination of new whole loans and the sale of legacy subordinate debt positions.
Since we have been actively originating new loans again which began in the fourth quarter of 2010 we have originated and closed or in the process of closing a total of 12 new loans with an aggregate balance of approximately $139 million.
We have steadily ramped up our loan production and our originations by quarter breakdown as follows two loans totaling approximately $18 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 two loans totaling approximately $22 million in the first quarter of 2011 four loans totaling approximately $52 million in the second quarter of 2011 and four loans totaling approximately $47 million so far in the third quarter of 2011.
We continue to see both sales and financing transaction volumes increase and liquidity returning to the market and we continue to experience payoffs in our portfolio.
We currently have a full forward pipeline of approximately $200 million of new transactions and will continue to convert select opportunities to loans for our portfolio.
From a credit perspective we note improving metrics across the portfolio with the majority of our properties securing our loans having improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and continuing to trend in an upward direction.
We are seeing borrowers plans for value creation being realized across the multi-family properties with rents increasing occupancy in average daily rate numbers at hotels are raising new leases being signed in office buildings and so on.
I am pleased to report that our commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be current with no defaults.
The real estate debt markets has definitely returned and we continue to observe a significant increase in financing activity from banks insurance companies and from reconstituted CMBS programs.
That said in recent weeks we have seen some instability in the CMBS market and a general pull-back by these long-term fixed rate lenders as the debt capital markets continue to recalibrate.
The retreat of CMBS lenders is certainly a positive for the RSO lending platform as we originate loans for our own balance sheets and are not dependent on CMBS for secondary loan trading market.
There will be many more borrowers seeking alternatives to CMBS in the near to intermediate term.
RSO benefits from our focus and expertise in directly originating floating-rate loans one likely transitional properties between $10 million and $25 million.
Even though there are a large number of capital sources in the market to make new loans there are relatively few market participants focusing on floating rate loans for the middle markets.
RSO will continue to benefit from loan repayments or select additional loan sales as we invest well structured higher yielding assets into our long term locked in financing vehicles.
In addition to our whole loan origination activities we are also seeking to take advantage of good opportunities to own properties.
In the second quarter we converted two properties with an aggregate loan balance of approximately $35 million to equity.
These properties are solid long-term holds with great potential for capital appreciation over time.
RSO is also directly buying real estate on an opportunistic basis both alone and with institutional partners.
In the second quarter the RSO teamed with one of our institutional partners on a 90:10 basis to acquire a distressed note secured by a 494 unit apartment complex at a substantial discount.
We will receive our 10% share of the profits and are also entitled to a 25% promoted interest over a stated hurdle.
In another opportunistic purchase that closed just yesterday we acquired a 504 unit multi family apartment complex for $18.6 million.
In this instance RSO has the [ph] loan and we will recognize all of the capital appreciation ourselves.
This is a value add opportunity and there will be additional equity added to the situation as plans to improve the property and measurably increase cash flow are realized.
RSO will continue to look for real estate purchases that provide strong current cash flow characteristics and the possibility of significant value creation and capital appreciation.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I’d like to review our investment in commercial finance.
In January we transformed our previous investment into a new one and now we own our interest through a joint venture we formed with LEAF Financial and Guggenheim Securities.
This JV is going well and is building its balance sheet its proprietary vendor finance programs and its staff.
We have been encouraged by the results in building the vendor finance business and are committed to making LFC [ph] into an industry leader.
RSO preferred stock investment has a stated dividend rate of 10% and earned $1.5 million in dividends during the six months ended June 30 2011.
Remember we also have warrants to purchase 48% of the business at a nominal price.
These warrants give us the upside we are looking for while the coupon gives us the ability to generate a nice current return.
As for our syndicated bank loan business I want to introduce Christopher Allen our Senior Vice President of Leveraged Loans who will walk us through our existing portfolio and our recent purchase of the management piece of Churchill Pacific which is now Resource Capital Asset Management or RCAM.
Chris.
(inaudible) and the Chief Operating Officer of Apidos Capital Management and worked together with Gretchen Bergstresser who is the senior portfolio manager.
Resource Capital has direct exposure to bank loans through three CLOs managed by Apidos and it earns fees on additional bank loans through its ownership of Resource Capital Asset Management formerly Churchill Pacific Asset Management.
Resource Capital’s three bank loan portfolios have a carrying value of $903.5 million and approximately $929.3 million [ph] in par value.
Resource Capital Asset Management has additional assets under management of approximately $1.8 billion.
For the most recent quarter the three CLOs that the company owns produced interest income 23% higher than during the second quarter of 2010.
Apidos CLOs have produced annualized equity returns of 24% since the inception for Resource Capital.
The current cash on cash returns based upon our original investment of $79.5 million is approximately 37%.
The carrying value of our bank loan portfolio is approximately $61 million representing approximately $0.82 of book value per share so that the return on equity of our bank loan investments is approximately 53% with remaining upside to the gain from accretion from loans and securities that we purchased at a discount in the amount of nearly $22 million.
Overall in my opinion the portfolios remain in excellent condition and very little has changed since last quarter.
We remain very diversified across industries.
The average position size is about 31 basis points or roughly $1 million.
The highest concentrations are in healthcare business services chemicals and automotive.
Included in the top ten holdings are issuers such as Community Health Systems SunGard Data Systems Cablevision and Flextronics.
The average rating is between a B2 for Moody’s and a B+ from S&amp;P; strong ratings for loans suitable for CLOs.
There is very little triple CCC exposure of less than 5% across the portfolios just over 2% of second liens and no corporate bonds.
We just hold one loan with a par value of 362 000 that was in default at June 30 2011.
In the current quarter we took an additional 24 000 to reflect its lower market value.
We increased our general reserve $1.7 million as a result of adding three new positions to those that are on our watch list due to near term restructuring concerns for a total of seven positions totaling $11 million at par.
Finally we sold loans during the quarter resulting in losses of 317 000.
As of June 30 2011 we had specific reserves of 136 000 and general reserves of 3.4 million as compared to specific reserves of 112 000 and general reserves of 1.7 million for the second quarter.
We continue to forecast a very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next two years.
There were no defaults into June or July and according to S&amp;P on August 1 the lagging 12-month default rate for the S&amp;P LSTA index of loans fell to a 42 month low of 77 basis points by principal amount and 1.21% by issuer.
If there are no defaults in August the rate by principal amount will drop to 33 basis points.
Currently the Apidos last 12-month default rate is 3 basis points.
All of our deals have increasing amounts of principal cushion versus last quarter and a year ago.
According to Citi Group’s Global Structured Strategy Report as of March this year Apidos is 5 out of 48 US CLO managers for having the highest average cushion in its CLOs.
During the downturn in March 2009 Apidos had the highest cushion according to the same research.
As we mentioned last quarter Resource Capital Asset Management also is entitled to the fees earned from managing 5 bank loan portfolios.
Since the deal closed in February of this year we are on track to receive what we estimate to be approximately $33 million over the next several years and our variance to forecast to date is roughly 50 000.
Going forward we believe that the trend of manager consolidation will continue and that Resource Capital will be a major beneficiary.
We regularly review additional acquisition candidates.
The new issue CLO market is becoming much more attractive as well.
For the first time in several quarters secondary loan prices have declined in price while liability spreads have remained tight.
In June Resource Capital formed Apidos CLO A [ph] and through a warehouse agreement with Citibank began warehousing loans.
At June 30 there were no outstanding borrowings on the facility.
At the end of July Apidos had purchased 48 million in bank loans.
The facility bears interest at a rate of 3 months LIBOR plus 1%.
Resource Capital intends to purchase the majority of the equity in Apidos CLO A upon closing of the CLO transaction in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we have received significant reserve enquiry from potential investors.
With triple-A lending at attractive levels we should have the opportunity to earn pre-tax gross returns in the high teens or low 20s.
We have deployed our efforts on behalf of Resource Capital with excellent results and look forward to continuing and expanding that success in the future.
Please feel free to contact me if you would like more information on our bank loan activities.
Thank you.
Thanks Chris.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our CFO to walk us through the financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s board declared a cash dividend for the second quarter of $0.25 per common share which approximates to our adjusted net income for the quarter.
Our estimated REIT taxable income for the second quarter of 2011 was $2.9 million or $0.04 per common share diluted.
REIT taxable income in the second quarter was impacted by three tax deductions not included in GAAP earnings namely losses from a real estate joint venture of $6.4 million a capital loss carryover of 3.5 million utilized during the second quarter and losses of 1.3 million on the bank loan portfolio.
Combined these 3 non-cash deductions of $11.2 million each representing timing differences reduced REIT income by $0.16 per share without affecting our liquidity and/or ability to pay the $0.25 dividend for what is now the seventh consecutive quarter.
We continue to pass all of the critical interest coverage and over collateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and three bank loan CLOs through July of 2011.
The over collateralization and interest coverage tests in each of our real estate CDOs was improved by our cancellation of several previously repurchased bonds on June 21 which added to our equity interest in these securitizations.
Each of these finances performed in generating stable cash flow to RSO in the second quarter.
The real estate CDOs produced over $9.9 million and bank loan CLOs generated over $13.5 million of cash flow for the six months ended June 30.
Of note as of July 29th we have in excess of $176 million in restricted cash comprised of approximately $68 million and over $118 million in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
This cash is available for reinvestment in our CLOs and CDOs to generate very attractive spreads over the cost of the associated debt and to support our investment in each structure.
Of our provisions for loan losses of $4.1 million $2 million is related to bank loans and $2.1 million is for real estate loans.
In real estate loans 1.4 million was recorded as a valuation adjustment for a property that we acquired by converting what had been a loan during the second quarter.
$500 000 was added for a previously impaired whole loan and $100 000 came from the sale of the whole loan after quarter end.
While we haven’t locked the converted loan to today’s estimated value of the real estate we do not expect a loss for the ultimate disposition of that asset.
On the bank loan portfolio We increased our reserves by $2 million of which $1.7 million was related to 2 positions with credit concerns both of which are performing.
We do not see the credit concerns in these two loans as a continuing trend with respect to that portfolio.
Overall I would characterize our credit as stable to improving and importantly all of our real estate loans both legacy and newly underwritten loans are performing.
Our leverage is 3.4 times.
When we treat our TruPS issuances which have a remaining term of 25 years as equity and no covenants as equity our leverage is 2.9 times.
Focusing on real estate we began 2010 approximately 2.3 times levered in our CRE CDOs.
After giving affect to the debt repurchases throughout 2010 and to 2011 operations we ended the June 2011 quarter a mere 1.5 times levered on our real estate portfolio.
Our GAAP book value per share was $5.84 at June 30th; the change from Q1 resulted primarily from reduced mark-to-market adjustments first on our CMBS portfolio of $0.07 per share and second a decrease on our cash flow hedges of $0.06.
The dividend of $0.25 per share was offset by earnings of $0.13 and a $0.01 per share improvement from our drip [ph].
At June 30 2011 our equity is allocated as follows.
Real estate loans and CMBS 66% commercial finance 29%; and 5% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thanks Dave.
We are excited to reap the benefits of new opportunities that we have already seized and to take advantage of even more opportunities as we have started to do so already.
We look forward to sharing the results and any color on them with you in future periods.
Now we will open up the call to any questions.
Thanks.
(Operator instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Congrats on the success on building the origination pipeline.
Thank you.
My first question had to do with the realized investment gains in the quarter.
I think it was 3.7 million you described the impairment of about 4 million on the – I think those were 2007 CMBS.
Can you give us a little background on what securities were involved in the realized investment gains? For the most part that was securities that we bought in the downturn in 2009 and in May and June sold in what was near the peak of the CMBS market.
Right.
Okay.
So taking some gains out of that legacy portfolio? Yes and now a lot of the securities are a lot cheaper now so now we are looking at them again.
And using your wealth lines for that? Either using the wealth or we have room in some of the CDOs.
Correct.
Okay and then I just want to clarify a couple of things when Dave was going through so I believe I heard him say that of the 187 million or so of cash in the structures was the number 118 million in the two CRE CDOs? It was in the real estate CDOs 118 million Steve.
Even I want to point out that part of our lag in putting our cash here a lot of the loans that we closed in this quarter closed towards the end of the quarter.
so we didn’t really pick up much interest income from them and then we have pending really this week and last week and the week before probably about I think 40 some odd 15 million of new loans that they have originated.
So when you look at it our investment book and our investment income in the next quarter should be a lot heavier from the real estate side.
Understood.
A lot of that cash will be used within the CDOs.
Given that you have got a pipeline of about 200 million against that 118 million are you starting to look at other funding sources that would allow you to continue to fund once you have pretty much used up your free cash and the CDOs? Yes we are in the final sort of final finals with a bunch of facilities that will enable us to use – continue to grow that business significantly after over the next like three months four months as we finish off the cash that is in those CDOs we will be able to continue to grow the business.
Remember that one of the parts of the business that has come back which we like is that people pay off their loans and we can replace them because we do get acquisition – because we do get origination and deeds [ph] and occasionally some sort of upside through the sale of a property.
Okay and then one last thing guys sorry to be tedious with these numbers but just wanted to get it straight.
Go ahead of course Steve.
The second quarter loan loss provision the 4.1 Bryant did I hear you correct included in there is the 2 million increase in the bank loan provision is included in that 4.1? Correct.
Okay and that you said was sort of a one relating… And that was just a very odd restructuring situation that surprised people and we felt based on the accounting and the situation that it was more prudent to book a reserve even though who knows what really happens there.
Okay.
Well thanks a lot for the comments and good job on getting this pipeline built up.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of Lee Cooperman with Omega Advisors.
Please proceed.
Yes hi.
Thank you very much.
Good morning to you.
Good morning.
Thanks for the comprehensive rundown.
I have kind of question along the final line you mentioned the commitment to the dividend which has been steadfast and you have lived up to that commitment but you are really saying for the rest of 2011 which really the year is more than half over question if your dividend was limited in 2012 to your expected cash earnings and not the dollar but cash earnings how much lower are cash earnings then your present dollar dividend is expected to be? Or possibly do you expect cash earnings in 2012 to be in line with the present dividend? No we wouldn’t keep the dividend here if we didn’t expect at this point that the cash earnings would be $1.
And we have 235 million that we have to put up in order to get the cash earnings of the company on a basic we are on $0.13 but we had $0.25 of adjusted to get it to that $0.25 you need to put that $235 million out and stop selling investments during the quarter.
so we expect when we model out to get to $1 and stay there.
I think I heard what you said but I want to make sure you expect by the time you employ this capital in 2012 you will be earning enough money and cash to maintain the dollar dividend? Yes exactly Lee.
The reason I didn’t say 2011 is because as we put out the money of course interest rates of the 10-year bond have gone from when I first started talking like 4% [ph] now they are at whatever 7% [ph].
and it becomes harder and harder to put out money at 9% or 10% or 8% unlevered so really there are swing factors but right now as we model out the dividend is good to go at $1.
Thank you.
Good luck.
You have done a very good job relative to your peer group.
Thanks Lee.
(Operator instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi with FBR.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
It is Jack [ph] for Gabe.
Hi Jack.
First question is could you please comment on how much equity you expect to contribute to the new Apidos CLO transaction? It is really up in the air now because we do have enquiries from other outside investors who also want to participate in the equity.
So it could be as much as $30 million to $40 million eventually.
We have 10 million or 15 million or 20 million that is already up on the line that is accumulating assets.
So it will probably be another $15 million or $20 million nothing that would cause us to raise capital in the marketplace.
Great thanks.
And then switching gears a little bit on the two properties you took back in the quarter could we get a little more color there in terms of if there is cash flowing and maybe just a little bit more about those situations? Sure.
This is Dave Bloom.
The two properties were actually very strong performers from a cash perspective.
We originated them ourselves and when we originated them we put in some pretty hefty triggers for renewals that required substantial delevering and some fees to the extent that that the parties didn’t make it.
We were more than happy to step in and take these properties.
These are great opportunities and over time we will really do extremely well.
I think it was the structuring of the heavy triggers for extension that allowed us to walk in.
in one such situation we also had substantial personal recourse that we were able to use to get the property and were happy to have them in portfolio.
I just want to add this is Jon.
As we look at the book of Resource Capital we are trying to take 10% or more and be opportunistic and actually own real estate.
We just bought another property that was sort of an opportunistic value add apartment situation that we thought was coming in very low in terms of pricing.
We were doing things that were opportunistic to build book value over time for our shareholders and this is a great example of even though the accounting made you book a loss on one of the loans really when we look at it with a few little tweaks and all the great cash flow from the properties these are incredible situations that will enable us to build value and we’re looking forward to that.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thanks Jack.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back over Jonathan Cohen for any closing remarks.
Well thank you very much and we look forward to next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of today’s conference.(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over your host for today’s call Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please proceed Mr.
Cohen.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp conference call for the third quarter ended September 30 2011.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s report filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular item 1-A on the form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Our GAAP net income was $14.9 million or $0.20 per share diluted and $37.3 million or $0.54 per share diluted for the three and nine months ended September 30 2011 respectively.
Compared to 14.1 million or $0.27 and 28.8 million or $0.64 per share diluted for the three and nine months ended September 30 2010 respectively.
Funds from operations for the three and nine months ended September 30 2011 was $16.2 million or $0.22 per-share diluted and 40.2 million or $0.59 per share diluted respectively.
Total revenues increased by $4.3 million or 22% and $17.1 million or 35% compared to the three and nine month ended September 30 2011 respectively.
We paid a dividend of $0.25 per common share for the quarter or 19.2 million in the aggregate on October 27 2011 to stockholders of record as of September 30 2011.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate lending; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
Resource Capital saw another quarter of growth lower credit provisions and good cash flow.
We were also very active in terms of moving forward with our plans reaching important goals and strategic objectives.
We continue to build our investment portfolio while paring some older and riskier real estate positions.
In fact we originated close to $40 million of real estate whole-loans for the quarter and into October and are in the process of closing even more.
In this same timeframe we purchased approximately $15 million in real estate equity investments distressed and value add.
And we opportunistically converted two loans with close to $35 million outstanding into equity ownership.
We sold some positions and received over $13 million of cash from repayments this quarter.
Consistent with our goal to strengthen our assets our commercial real estate portfolio is now approximately 84% whole loans as compared to 66% a year ago.
A very active quarter and one that is positioning us to obtain our goal.
You will hear us talking about funds from operations as an alternative measure to look at our earnings.
This change is necessary due to – is necessary as we have begun a strategy of selectively acquiring distress and value-added properties.
This strategy will mean that we will have far more depreciation run through our income statement and FFO or Funds from Operations will back this out so an investor can have a clear perspective on how we are doing.
This is another strategy to build long-term book value through appreciated investments while maintaining strong cash flow and a high dividend.
So far in my opinion we have excelled in this strategy.
In total we own properties with approximately 10 to $15 million in equity and expect returns in excess of 18% including 5 to 10% cash-on-cash returns in the first year growing.
We have done this through joint ventures as well as directly through our management company.
Credit generally continued to improve and our provisions for loan loss has decreased significantly nearly 70% from the prior year.
We believe the credit environment is still improving for real estate but we are certainly aware of the weaker macro situation.
While credit on our legacy loans continues to improve this part of our asset base has decreased due to the growth of our business.
Dave Bloom will tell you in a few minutes about our newly originated loans as well as our CMBS bond strategy that’s worked quite well so far.
Then I will speak about the seller performance in our bank loan portfolio as well as Apidos VIII our newly-issued term financing for over $350 million of new loans.
We’ve also completed recently a term financing for our leasing portfolio as held in our joint venture with our joint venture affiliate.
We are very are focused on growing our business and eager to complete the investment of $177 million of cash that remained on our balance sheet as of September 30 2011.
This number although still big has decreased significantly from almost 236 million at June 30 2011.
And we expect this number to decrease even more significantly within the next few months.
Some shareholders have recently asked me about the timeframe for investing the remaining 177 million of cash and why we didn’t see that number drop even more this quarter.
It’s a good question and one that I want to address.
The answer is quite straightforward.
The last quarter saw incredible turbulence in this global stock and debt markets.
And we chose to slow down our origination and look for better real estate loans at wider spreads.
We’ve been able to execute on this strategy albeit at a slower pace and expected.
We also saw some repayments in the quarter that obviously needed to net out.
I believe we will be fairly fully invested by the end of the first quarter of 2011.
The company is in pretty good position to be in.
The company is in a pretty good position; very little short-term recourse debt lots of free cash flow to invest and grow our revenues and profits improving credit environment with rising real estate prices underlying our loans and $0.22 of funds from operations as a starting point.
Our focus in the last several quarters on paring back legacy assets and deploying capital into new loans and investments has paid off.
We are in a strong position.
Going forward we will focus on further expanding our real estate lending operations continue to seek opportunistic equity positions in real estate finding new investment in syndicated bank loans and building franchise value at our commercial finance business lease.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Dave.
Thanks Jonathon.
Resource Capital Corps commercial mortgage portfolio has a current committed balance of approximately $694 million and a granular pool of 42 individual loans.
The collateral base underlying the portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets with a portfolio breakdown of 40% multifamily 10% office 24% hotel 14% retail and 13% other such as mixed use or self-storage.
Since we have been actively originating new loans which started late in 2010 and has been intermittent through 2011 while we through periods of price discovery we have closed or are closing 12 new loans with an aggregate balance of approximately $151 million with a weighted average coupon of 7.22%.
When you take into account the typical 1% origination fee which is accreted into income over the initial two-year term of the loans our starting coupon is 7.72% on a floating-rate basis overall LIBOR floor.
Our portfolio of commercial mortgage positions is in components as follows; 84% whole loans 12% mezzanine loans and 4% B-notes.
We continue to benefit from an increasing percentage of whole loan positions in our portfolio having gained another 4% this quarter which represents a year-over-year increase of 18% from 66% as of September 30 2010 to the 84% we have in portfolio today.
This mix shift is the result of our origination of new whole loans and the sell or payoff of legacy subordinate debt dispositions.
On September 20 the reinvestment period for the first of our two term financing facilities closed and the $345 million vehicle was fully invested at that time.
We still have restricted cash in our second term financing facility which is $500 million in size and we have a robust forward pipeline and look to be fully invested well in advanced of the closing of that reinvestment period which ends in June of 2012.
We are currently negotiating new term financing facilities that fuel future lending activity and that will be structured to match fund on the loans that we originate.
With regard to overall credit and performance of our loans we note improving metrics across the portfolio with the majority of the properties securing our loans realizing improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and continuing to trend in an upward direction.
<br>We are impressed with the resilience of our loan portfolio and pleased to see the majority of asset-specific business plans are back on track and progressing towards the realization of borrower’s plans for value creation.
The CMBS new origination loan market has pulled back substantially from earlier this year and the uncertainty that both borrowers and lenders feel in CMBS execution has created additional opportunities for RSO to make high-quality high-coupon floating rate loans in situations where borrowers may have otherwise considered permanent financing.
In addition tighter CMBS standards higher pricing lower proceeds on a going-forward basis greatly broadens the pool of properties that will seek the floating rate bridge loans that we specialize in.
The retreat of the CMBS lenders is certainly a positive for RSO’s lending platform.
As we originate loans for our balance sheet and are not dependent on CMBS for a secondary loan trading market.
We currently see approximately $250 million of new loan request each week and as a result we have a strong forward pipeline of new transactions and will continue to convert select opportunities to loans for our portfolio.
Sales and financing activity has definitely continued to increase as select markets stabilize.
Despite the pullback in the CMBS market that I noted there has been a significant increase in lending activity by banks insurance companies in addition to well-established portfolio lenders such as RSO.
RSO benefits from our focus and expertise in directly-originating floating-rate loans on lightly-transitional properties between 10 and $25 million.
Even though there are a number of capital sources in the market to make new loans there are relatively few market participants focused on floating-rate loans for the middle market.
Our nationwide direct origination platform continues to be the driver of our business model.
As has been noted before our self-originated whole loans are typically structured with origination and exit fees and the borrower’s responsible for all cost associated with the transaction.
In addition many of our whole loans are structured to derive elements of borrower recourse and other credit enhancements.
We look forward to steady new loan origination while maintaining the credit quality structure pricing and diversity of our current portfolio and meaningful growing our net interest margins and overall profitability.
As a value add strategy to our focus on new whole loan production in 2009 we began buying investment grade CMBS bonds at a significant discount to PAR.
Our CMBS bond portfolio is also diverse in granular with no single position exceeding $5 million.
In addition to our dedicated loan origination and asset management teams we have a CMBS team lead by Joan Sapinsley that underwrites every bond purchase and then re-underwrites each individual position in our CMBS portfolio on a quarterly basis and carefully monitors pricing moves on a daily basis.
In 2009 we purchased $54.8 million of bonds and in 2010 we purchased another $37.8 million.
When prices rallied earlier this year we opportunistically sold $23 million of bonds and realized a $3.5 million gain.
We are well positioned to take advantage of future rallies in the CMBS space and will continue to opportunistically trade positions for gains as market moves dictate.
Since the beginning of 2011 we have been very active buying highly rated CMBS for our structured finance vehicles as well on a $100 million line of credit that we have with Wells Fargo Bank.
Through the third quarter of this year we have purchased $24.5 million of bonds for our structured finance vehicles and another $51.6 million for our Wells Fargo facility for a total aggregate new investments and CMBS bonds of $76.1 million.
The Wells Fargo facility provides us an opportunity to deploy meaningful amounts of capital into a space where we have a well-established team and to earn returns  between 12 and 15% in AAA investments.
In addition to our whole loan origination and CMBS bond activities as Jonathon mentioned we are also seeking to take advantage of good opportunities to own properties.
In the second quarter we converted two properties with an aggregate loan balance of approximately $35 million to equity.
Also in the second quarter we made two opportunistic purchases.
In one RSO teamed with an established institutional partner to acquire a distressed note secured by 494-unit apartment complex at a substantial discount.
We will receive a 10% share of the profits and are also entitled to a 25% promoted interest over a stated hurtle.
In the other RSO acted alone and acquired a 504 unit value add multifamily apartment complex for $18.6 million.
In this instance RSO acted alone and will recognize all of the capital appreciation itself.
Since bringing all four properties into portfolio they have now been successfully transferred to our asset management group and are performing ahead of Pro Forma and exceeding budget expectations.
These properties are solid long-term holds with great potential for capital appreciation over time.
We are still targeting 15 to 25% returns for these properties but early performance shows the potential for returns well above original underwriting.
RSO will continue to look for real estate purchases that provide strong current cash flow characteristics and the possibility of significant value creation and profitability.
<br>With that I’ll turn back to John and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end.
Thanks Dave.
Now I’d like to review our investment in the commercial finance.
In January we transformed our previous investment into a new one and now we own our interest through a joint venture we formed with LEAF Financial and Guggenheim Securities.
Since then LEAF has made great progress in building it’s vendor programs and making high-quality leases.
It just completed its first securitization rated by Moody’s which was widely distributed.
These are good accomplishments in just a few months and we look forward to even more progress in future periods.
Now I will also review our syndicated bank loan portfolio.
Resource Capital’s bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1.1 billion and approximately 1.13 billion in PAR value.
For the most recent quarter the bank loan portfolio the CLOs that the company owns produced interest income 23% higher than during the second quarter of 2010.
The CLOs have now produced annualized equity returns of 26% since inception.
Overall in my opinion our portfolios remain in excellent condition and little has changed since last quarter.
As of September 30 2011 we have specific reserves of 166 000 and general reserves of 3.3 million as compared to specific reserves of 136 000 and general reserves of 3.4 million for the second quarter.
<br>We continue to forecast a very very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next two years.
There were zero loan defaults in June July and August and only one small one in September.
Currently the Apidos last 12-month default rate is zero.
All of our deals have increasing amounts of principal cushion versus last quarter and a year ago.
As we mentioned last quarter Resource Capital asset management also entitled to earn fees to the fees are earned from managing five bank loan portfolios which we managed for other investors.
<br>Since the deal closed in February of this year we are in track to receive what we estimate to be approximately $33 million over the next several years.
We have received 7.8 million of fees to date roughly $100 000 below our projections of variance of 1%.
Very excitedly on October 13 Resource Capital invested in $15 million in a CLO VIII Apidos CLO VIII a $350 million new issue cash flow CLO along with other outside equity investors.
We expect to achieve gross returns between 16 and 20%.
We were especially glad to be able to price this transaction close this transaction during a period of heightened volatility in the market.
We are very pleased about the performance and look forward to continued results in the bank loan portfolio.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathon.
RSO’s board declared a cash dividend for the third quarter of $0.25 per common share.
Our estimated REIT taxable income for the third quarter 2011 was 5.3 million or $0.27 per common share diluted.
REIT taxable income in the third quarter was impacted by several non-cash tax adjustments totally 10.8 million and reduced REIT income by $0.15 per-share without affecting our liquidity and ability to pay the $0.25 dividend for the eighth consecutive quarter.
Also given our new investments in real estate equity by both acquisition and by conversion of debt-to-equity we are moving two funds from operations or FFO as an alternate operating performance measure since we now have as John mentioned significant real property depreciation expense in our statement of operations.
Our FFO for the three and nine month periods were $0.22 per-share and $0.59 per-share respectively thus this FFO metric gets us to a similar result as REIT taxable income after adjusting REIT income for the non-cash deductions this quarter.
We continue to pass all of the critical interest coverage and over collateralization test in our two real estate CDOs and four-bank loan CLOs through October.
As a reminder the overcollateralization and interest coverage test in each of our real estate CDOs was improved by our cancelation of some previously repurchased bonds in June of 2011.
We also repurchased 10 million of our CRE CDO bonds for a discount of nearly $0.40 on the dollar this quarter.
Each of this structured financing performed and generated stable cash flow to RCC in the third quarter.
The real estate CDOs produced over 15 million and bank loan CLOs generated over 20 million of cash flow during the nine months ended September 30.
Of note as of the end of the quarter we have in excess of 144 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of about 49 million in the CLOs and 95 million in our real estate deals.
This cash is available for reinvestment to generate very attractive spreads over the cost of associated debt and to potentially add collateral to each structure.
Of our provisions for loan losses of 1.2 million 800 000 is related to bank loans and 400 000 for real estate loans.
On our bank loan portfolio we increased our reserves by 800 000 with virtually all of it related to loan sales during the quarter sold for credit reasons.
On our real estate loans 400 000 was added for a previously impaired whole loan.
Overall I continue to characterize our credit as stable to improving and notably all of our 42 real estate loans both legacy and newly underwritten are performing.
Our leverage is 3.6 times.
When we treat our trust issuances which have a remaining term of 25 years and new [inaudible] as equity our leverage is 3.1 times.
Focusing on real estate we began 2010 approximately 2.3 times LIBOR on our real estate CDOs.
After giving effect to the debt repurchases throughout 2010 and 2011 we end September quarter conservative 1.5 times LIBOR on our real estate portfolio.
Our GAAP book value per-share was 566 at September 30 down from 584 at June 30.
The $0.18 change in Q3 resulted from reduced mark-to-market adjustments on our CMBS portfolio of $0.11 per-share the quarterly dividend of $0.25 less earnings of $0.20 per-share for $0.05 reduction and $0.02 per-share dilution from a restricted stock issuance.
At September 30 our equity is allocated as follows commercial real estate loans and CMBS is 65% commercial finance 30% and 5% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I’ll turn the call back to Jonathon Cohen.
Thank you.
Before we take any questions I wanted to just answer one or two questions that came to us from shareholders.
One shareholder asked what we’ll take for book value per-share to start increasing.
Obviously you can hear from our comments today that we continue to move more and more of the portfolio into assets that although high yielding or yielding come with appreciation.
For instance our investment in the commercial finance since we leave where we get a 10% coupon but have 48% of the upside.
That can grow book value.
The same with our investment in distress and value added properties.
Where we’re getting a good cash flow but really we’re looking for appreciation.
It’s instances like that where we can start to grow book value.
Also obviously we’ve negatively affected probably by 18 to $0.25.
I don’t have the exact number by the mark-to-market and CMBS over the last two quarters two or three quarters.
And obviously we fill like these are money good bonds and so we’re looking forward to taking back into book value the marks on the CMBS and other finance structured finance securities that fell during these last two quarters with significant hurt book value.
You know there are great opportunities in the marketplace to buy back our own CDO debt and it’s a balance between taking advantage of those opportunities at the right prices.
We did this quarter where we bought approximately I think $10 million of CDO bonds opportunistically.
We will continue to look at them; we’re looking at one now.
So obviously that’s a good way to grow book value but you do it by putting cash out for a very low return in terms of cash-on-cash going forward.
So we’re fairly conservative of that as we’re trying to maintain our dividend and move forward and grow.
With that I just wanted to say we’re very excited to reap the benefits of all these new opportunities the closing of our CLO the closing of our securitization the buying of [inaudible] opportunities.
We’re looking forward to putting the $177 million of cash to work.
And even taking advantage of more opportunities.
And I think we’ve already started to do this and we look forward to sharing more results for you in future periods.
<br>With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of (Brian Gonnic with Sin Vest).
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hey Brian.
So on the 177 million of cash to be invested what’s your latest thinking on what kind of rate you could get on that cash?  What kind of returns?  Well it really breaks down into two categories.
One is $28 million which is unrestricted cash and Dave Bryant will correct me if I get the numbers wrong.
And approximately $150 million of restricted cash that are inside mostly inside the real estate CDOs although some in the TLOs as of September 30<sup>th</sup>.
And I would say just on average in the real estate loans as Dave put forth we’re looking for returns around 8% on newly-issued loans.
And so I would say around 8% on the unrestricted portion maybe for the touch of things that are in the CLOs around 6%.
And on the restricted portion we’re looking for 15 to 18% returns.
So when you factor in whatever that blended overall return might be let’s say it’s 8% right on 177 million…  Well it’s probably more like you know 10% or something like that.
Okay 10% so that’s $17 million right? That’s $0.20-plus a share yeah.
Right.
And you said I didn’t catch it when you said on the call when you expect to have this deployed by the end of Q2 you said?  No by the end of Q1.
End of Q1.
Great.
On the real estate owned presumably that was over the course of the quarter that you…  Hey Brian I don’t mean to interrupt you.
I want to point out that other than the 177 million we have probably about 50 to $60 million of loans that during the crisis we dropped the floors on those loans to help the borrowers.
We expect to have those loans either repaid be worked out and put that money out at higher rates than it’s currently earning.
So one of the things we’re doing in addition to the 177 million not just on the real estate side but across the board is optimizing our cash and our cash investments most of which you know has been optimized but probably somewhere around 100 million 200 million.
There’s stuff that’s floating out there that’s not really earning us very much and it comes from legacy investments restructuring from the old-time pre – or doing the financial crisis.
And obviously we need to get that to start earning more significantly.
Right right.
So 100 million to 200 million or is it closer to 100?  My guess is – I’ll get back to you on that but it probably is 100 to 150 probably.
Okay.
On the real estate owned what is the run rate on the rental you know the NOI out of those properties?  I don’t really have that on me right now.
I’m happy to provide it to you but I would just say right now we’ve really bucketed in two categories; one is we have a joint venture with VARTA Group and there we’re doing you know kind of discounted or defaulted loans and we’ve had a good track record of turning them into 15 to 30% type returns.
And so there you might not have a lot of NOI but you’re looking to turn it around quickly solve the problems and sell it within a year or two or three.
And that’s a very small portion of what we do.
The bigger portion is in value-add multi-families where you’re probably getting a you know with 60% leverage or something like that.
You’re probably getting somewhere around an 8% return cash on cash the first year.
But with the trends that are involved in multi-family right now we feel like we can turn around and either grow the cash flow significantly the second year or/and sell it eventually.
And we’re looking for returns somewhere between 17 and 20% there.
With like a two-year horizon you think?  Yeah.
Okay great.
All right thanks guys.
Great quarter.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
There is no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter and please call either myself or anybody on the team Purvi Kamdar with any questions that you would like to be answered directly.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Resource Capital Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kim and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of today’s conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to your host for today’s call Mr.
Jonathan Cohen CEO and President.
Please proceed Mr.
Cohen.
Thank you and thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corporation’s conference call for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31 2011.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believe anticipate expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular item 1-A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the three months and year ended December 31 2011 was $17 million or $0.22 per share diluted and $63.9 million or $0.90 per share diluted respectively.
Our GAAP net income for the three months and year ended December 31 2011 were $413 000 or $0.01 per share diluted or $37.7 million or $0.53 per share diluted compared – respectively as compared to GAAP net loss for the three months ended December 21 2010 of $9.4 million or $0.17 per share diluted and GAAP net income for the year ended December 31 2010 of $19.4 million or $0.41 per share diluted respectively increases of $9.8 million or 104% and $18.3 million or 94% respectively.
Total revenues increased by $9.6 million or 51% and increased by $26.7 million or 40% as compared to the three months in the year ended December 31 2010.
We paid a dividend of $0.25 per common share for the quarter or $20 million in aggregate on January 27 2012 to stockholders of record as of December 30 2011.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate Lending; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
During the year ending December 31 2011 Resource Capital Corp.
shifted its approach to creating shareholder value from short-term or long-term thinking.
When the year began we were focused on first the continuing overhang from the credit crisis that began in 2008.
Second maximizing current returns from buying back earlier debt at a discount and distributing as much cash to our shareholders as could be deemed responsible.
And third positioning the company for the future by building our capital base and growing and diversifying our assets.
We believe that we were successful in doing all three and that allows us to really focus in the future.
As we ended the year shareholders should take note of declining credit costs increasing revenue and our guidance of $0.80 to $0.90 of FFO which means we can look to growing our dividend from a very stable and sustainable base of $0.20 per quarter.
During 2011 as we began to accelerate our focus on the future we set and met good dividend guidance re-termed finance and the syndicated bank loans structured vehicle we secured multiple commercial real estate lines including a brand new $150 million real estate loan facility we made investments in real estate and increase our loan origination and we lowered to two under $67 million the amount of mezzanine loans from the pre-financial period pre-financial crisis period.
We end the year with only 4.2 times in leverage and 1.5 times in leverage against our real estate portfolio.
Our focus on the future includes several key elevenths we use our capital to grow our business and portfolio is the result of this is that the massive increase in revenue year-over-year of over 40% we also made multiple long-term investments that we think will be booked value enhancers read long-term gains that have low or zero current return.
These investments include our $36 million investments alongside a private equity fund in a leasing platform as well as the continued equity investment program in the distressed and value-add real estate.
We also continue to opportunistically buy discounted structured credit as well as CMBS.
All of these investments are meant to grow book value over the next few years.
We believe that a capital allocation that includes both solid well-performing current credit-based assets along with longer-term capital appreciation investment will benefit our shareholder now and into the future.
Book value ended the quarter at $5.38 and was primarily down – was down primarily due to tax planning moves taken in the fourth quarter 2011.
These moves were necessary because of the outperformance of the non-real estate businesses principally in syndicated bank loans and will not need I repeat and will not need to be repeated as we have increased our real estate revenue with the addition of owned real estate.
Book value also decreased due to mark-to-market of our structured bonds capitals ABS while our CMBS portfolio was flat.
We believe that these securities have rallied significantly since January 1 2012 and pro forma would add approximately $0.07 to $0.10 per share if marked as of the end of February were closer to $5.45 to $5.48 per share of book value.
We are very pleased about this trend and believe there is further upside to this number.
In addition it does not include approximately $35 million of discount that we have yet to accrete on our syndicated bank loan portfolio or approximately another $0.40.
We continue to grow our business through further investments in real estate loans real estate distressed investment and value-add real estate equity investment.
The result of these initiatives are best illustrated through the new $150 million loan facility that we signed with Wells Fargo as well as the gains in the sale of distressed real estate that we earned in the December quarter.
During the December quarter a joint venture in distressed real estate between RSO and an institutional partner sold real estate investments resulting in cash proceeds to RSO of $2.9 million representing approximately $1.1 million of gain on investments.
We just completed the sale of another investment very recently with cash proceeds of $1.2 million to RSO and a gain of approximately $1.2 million.
We are very focused on growing our business and eager to complete the investment of $185 million of cash that remain on our balance sheet as of December 31 2011.
We expect this number to decrease more significantly within the next few months.
Our confidence and the ability to grow our real estate business is bolstered by our recent accomplishment.
In fact we originated $139 million of real estate home loans for the year ended December 31 2011 and are in the process of closing even more.
In the same timeframe through a joint venture we purchased approximately $700 000 of distressed real estate investments representing a 5% interest.
We acquired a multifamily property for approximately $18 million and opportunistically converted two loans we closed to $35 million in the equity ownership.
We also purchased a10% equity interest in another joint venture for $2.4 million to acquire a multifamily property and also provide an additional $7 million whole loan for a total of $9.4 million.
We sold some positions and received almost $44 million of cash from repayments and pay-down this last year.
Consistent with our goal to strengthen our assets our commercial realty portfolio is now approximately 87% home loan as compared to 67% a year ago.
We are growing as demonstrated by our revenue growth of $26.7 million and this should start to translate into dividend growth.
We had a very strong credit performance this year with provisions down 68% year-over-year.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage portfolio has a current committed balance of approximately $683 million and a granted hole of 44 individual loans.
The collateral basis underlying the portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets with a portfolio breakdown of 41% multifamily 9% office 23% hotel 15% retail and 12% others such as mixed use and sub-storage.
From the fourth quarter of 2011 through today we originated foreign new loans with an aggregate balance of $49.6 million.
Since real estate markets began to stabilize in late 2010 we have been actively originating new loans.
Although there have been several pull backs in the real estate finance market during which time we focused exclusively on prices’ cover.
Today we have closed or are closing 14 new loans with an aggregate balance of approximately $166 million with a weighted average coupon of 7.26%.
When you take into account the typical 1% origination fee which is accreted to the income over the initial two-year term of the loans our starting coupon is 7.76% on a floating rate basis over a LIBOR floor.
Notwithstanding recent starting coupons of approximately 7.25% we know pricing pressures CMBS has reemerged for stabilized assets at fixed-rate coupons close to 5% and as banks are aggressively looking to put out new floating rate loans at post-crisis valuations.
We will continue to focus on credit quality and made prudent pricing investments as may be required for high-quality loans.
Our portfolio of commercial mortgage possessions is in components as follows.
87% whole loans 11% mezzanine loans and 2% B-notes.
We continue to benefit from an increasing percentage of whole loan positions in our portfolio having gained another 3% this quarter which continues the trend that began as we started lending again and began to realize payoffs in a number of our legacy subordinate acquisitions.
We still have some restricted cash in our second structure term financing facility which is $500 million and we have a robust forward pipeline and looked to be fully invested in this vehicle in advance of the closing of this reinvestment period which ends in June of 2012.
As previously noted our first structured term financing facility which is $345 million in size was fully invested when its reinvestment period ended in September of 2011.
On February 27 of this year we closed a new $150 million term financing facility with Wells Fargo Bank that is designed to fund the continued growth of our core lending business floating rate whole loans and lightly transitional cash loan properties nationwide.
The addition of this leverage will greatly enhance our net interest margin and driving meaningful increase in return on equity and our lending platform and RSO’s overall profitability.
We are pleased to see that the majority of the asset-specific business plans across the portfolio are back on track and progressing towards the realization of borrowers plans for value creation and we note improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of the property securing our loans realizing improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and continuing to trend in an upward direction.
Sales and financing activity continues to increase as the commercial real estate recovery takes hold in additional markets.
CMBS lenders banks insurance companies and well-established portfolio lenders such as RSO are all seeing increased lending opportunities while keeping an extreme focus on credit quality we anticipate year-over-year loan production growth and an overall increase in the size of our loan portfolio.
RSO benefits from our focus and expertise in directly originating floating-rate bridge loans between approximately $10 million and $25 million even though there are a number of capital sources in the market to make new loans and despite some signs of pricing pressure we are still actively underwriting between $250 million and $500 million of transactions a month and are confident in our ability to continue to grow new loan originations in an impactful manner.
We look forward to steady new loan origination while maintaining a credit quality structure pricing and diversity of our current portfolio continuing to grow the RSO loan platform.
As I’ve noted on previous calls as a value added strategy to our focus a new whole loan production since the beginning of 2011 our dedicated CMBS team has been actively buying highly rated CMBS bonds for our two structured finance vehicles and on a $100 million credit facility also with Wells Fargo bank that is designed for this purpose.
Aggregate CMBS purchases for 2011 total $100.24 million par value at an average price of 99.6%.
The Wells Fargo CMBS facility provides RSO with the ability to deploy capital in AAA rated investments returns of between 12% and 15%.
In addition to our whole loan origination in CMBS bond activities.
We continue to take advantage of opportunities to own properties.
RSO’s equity portfolio (inaudible) of four properties three multifamily properties and one office building all of which continue to perform at or ahead of pro forma.
These properties are planned to be medium to long term holds and we see strong potential for capital appreciation over time.
We are still targeting 15% to 25% overall returns for these properties but performance a day shows the potential for returns well above original underwriting.
RSO will continue to look for real estate acquisition opportunities to provide strong current cash flow characteristics and a possibility of significant value creation and capital appreciation.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I would like to review our investment in commercial finance.
In early 2011 we transformed our previous investment into a new one and now we owned our interest through a joint venture we formed with LEAF Financial and Guggenheim Securities as well as Eos.
Since then LEAF has made great progress in building its vendor programs and making high-quality leases.
We completed its first securitization rated by Moody’s which was widely distributed.
Either good accomplishment in just a few months and we look forward to even making more progress in future periods.
Now I will also review our syndicated bank loan portfolio.
Resource Capital’s bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1.2 billion at number tight cost.
Overall in my opinion our portfolio has remained in excellent condition and little has changed since last quarter.
As of December 31 2011 we have specific reserves of $1.6 million and general reserves at $1.7 million as compared to specific reserves of 166 000 in general reserves of $3.3 million for the third quarter.
We continued to forecasting very very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next year or two.
In the last 12 months there was only one new loan default and one loan where he took conditional impairment.
This was great for the last 12 months was 0.3%.
As we mentioned last quarter Resource Capital Asset Management was also entitled to earn incentive fees for performance in addition to the base fees earned for managing five bank loan portfolios.
These were the bank loan portfolios that we managed for other investors.
Since the deal closed to purchase those management contracts in February of last year we are on track to receive what we estimate to be approximately $33 million over the next several years.
We received $7.8 million in fees to date.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s board declared a cash dividend for fourth quarter and full year 2011 of $0.25 and $1 per share respectively.
Last quarter we began reporting on funds from operations or FFO as an operating performance measure.
We are now expanding on that metric in reporting adjusted funds from operations or AFFO which reflects the normalize performance of our operations and support both our current and longer-term earnings and growth that fuels our cash dividend payouts today and going forward.
Our AFFO income for the fourth quarter and year ended 2011 was $17 million or $0.22 per share and $63.9 million or $0.90 per common share diluted.
AFFO for the fourth quarter and year ended 2011 was impacted by several non-cash items totaling $6.4 million and $15.8 million and reduced adjusted FFO income by $0.08 and $0.22 per share respectively.
Also during the period we took steps to ensure compliance of the 75% REIT gross income tax.
We believe these tax compliance steps to be nonrecurring in nature and not a normal part of our operations.
We continue to pass all the critical interest coverage and over collateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and four bank loan CLOs to February 2012.
Each of these structured financings performed and provided stable cash flow to RSO in 2011.
The real estate CDOs produced over $22 million and bank loan CLOs generated over $27 million of cash flow during the year ended December 31.
Notably this cash flow will increase in 2012 as we deploy restricted cash available for reinvestment and participate in cash flow from our new Apados CLO-8 beginning in 2012.
As of December 31 we had in excess of $138 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of approximately $58 million in over $80 million in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Except for approximately $20 million in Apados CDO-1 where our reinvestment period expired in July this cash is available for reinvestment in our deals which we expect will provide very attractive spreads over the CLOs of the associated debt.
Of the Q4 provisions from loan losses of $6 million $5.1 million is related to bank loans and $0.9 million is for real estate loans.
Regarding our bank loan portfolio we increased our reserves by $4.3 million virtually all of it related to loan sales during the quarter.
On our real estate loans the 855 000 was added to reserve for previously-impaired whole loan.
Overall I characterized our credit as improving and importantly all of our 40 real estate loans including the legacy loans are performing through February 2012.
Our leverage is 4.2 times.
When we treat our trough issuances which have a remaining term of 25 years as equity our leverage is 3.6 times.
Our leverage increased from September 30 2011 primarily due to the issuance of our fourth CLO Apados 8 that closed in October.
We retained 43% of the equity in this deal.
Focusing on real estate we began 2010 approximately 2.3 times levered in our real estate CDOs after accounting for the debt repurchases in 2010 and 2011 we ended 2011 a conservative 1.5 times lever on our real estate portfolio.
We ended 2011 with a GAAP book value per share of $5.38 down from $5.66 at September 30.
$0.28 change resulted primarily from reduced mark-to-market adjustments on our available for sale ABS portfolio of $0.04 per share combined with the cash dividend of $0.25 offset by net income for the quarter of $0.01.
At December 31 2011 our equity is allocated as follows: commercial real estate loans in CMBS 63%; commercial finance 31%; and 6% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I’ll turn call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thanks Dave.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning Steve.
My first question I have two things.
First was to ask you about the while recognizing the big drop in the provision for credit losses year-over-year.
I did notice that $6 million in the fourth quarter looked tired than we’ve in the last couple of quarters.
And Dave Bryant did touch on that.
I guess I was surprised to find that the majority of that was actually on bank loans rather than CRE.
So could you maybe give us a little color as to – since the bank loan portfolio has performed so well was there a specific credit exposure – can you hear me? Yeah.
I can hear you.
Go ahead Steve.
Yeah.
I was just going to ask if there was a specific exposure that you are trying to shed kind of like you’ve been shedding noise in the CRE portfolio.
And as part of that the – there was like $1.8 million of realized loss in the quarter on investments and loans available for sale and I didn’t know whether those two items were connected in some way.
Thank you.
Yeah Steve just to address that those – the reason we sold – so we – basically as we put forth most of the noise in that – in the quarter was from cash planning.
What happened was the bank loan portfolio quite frankly over-performed in the real estate in terms of revenue and real estate was a little bit less.
Mostly because it didn’t keep up with the speed of investments and profit that was coming from the commercial finance part of the business recognizing as we needed to sell things on the bank syndicated bank loan side or the commercial finance side so were selling things that – at a slight discount in order to generate cash losses in order to come back into compliance for the retest.
It really didn’t have anything to do with the quality of the assets or whether or not they would have been impaired.
But just in selling them we were generating losses so we were selling things.
But even though we thought we’re perfectly good credits that would go to par that we had to generate losses.
So we were selling what we had to at a discount in order to generate cash losses.
But really had nothing to do with credit it really had much more to do with tax planning and in the fourth quarter and as we mentioned that won’t recur again because we’ve now bought real estate properties and have enough revenue that’s coming in from those real estate properties or I should say converted loans to equity so that we won’t have that problem going forward.
So the bank loan product – the bank loan portfolio is an excellent shape and in no means were those losses kind of credit-oriented as much as they were sold at a discount to generate tax losses...
That’s...
Those losses Steve I just geography when the loans were sold at losses the loss goes through the provision line item.
Understood.
That’s very helpful I apologize if I missed that nuance.
No it’s a little bit confusing but it really had more to do out-performance and tax planning than it did with credit area the credit on the bank loan portfolio is pristine.
And specifically you’re referring to I think is 80% income tax for goodwill income is that...
It’s 75 it’s kind of links to 75% where at least 75% of your gross income must come from qualifying real estate.
Real estate? Yes.
Okay great.
That’s helpful.
And as I pointed out even though we took the hits there are we did buy a large portfolio of which is Apados 8 of bank loan portfolios at a deep discount and so we actually have $40 million $35 million of accretion that we haven’t accreted in the book so when you add that back in you obviously make up a lot of the difference that we unfortunately had to sell for tax reasons.
Understood.
That’s helpful.
And my second question had to do with the CMBS effort which appears now to kind of be ramping up with the $100 million Wells line.
You’ve talked a lot over the years about the strength of Gretchen’s team on the bank loans could you just talk briefly about the resources you have within REXI and who is specifically leading that CMBS underwriting effort are you – and where in the caps stack are these like the AM and HA tranches and what type of un-levered yields you’re seeking to obtain there? Thanks.
Well really just want to be clear I think we will have two efforts.
One is on the CMBS side and that’s led by a woman named Joan Sapinsley and her team.
Joan had over 20 years of experience leading the charge for a very large insurance company Teachers insurance company one of the largest buyers to CMBS.
She bought at Teachers everything from AAA down to subordinate notes.
A true veteran of the CMBS well she’s been with us probably four or five years or more and has done an excellent job of leading the charge on CMBS.
We’re mostly buying at this point.
We buy cyclically as AJs or AMs go down we’ll buy them and rise them up and we have a lot of unbooked gains that are in that portfolio.
From buying – which we sold out before now we bought when they went down now they rallied significantly as we mentioned in the call.
But most of the time right now we’re buying very short-dated AAA very high up the stack.
Basically looking for – even though it’s very short and are paying off very quickly so we have to replenish it returns between 10% and 15% and betting a little bit more on our understanding of the rate of prepayment rather than the credit in the portfolio.
Okay.
Very good.
That’s helpful Jonathan.
And then the second part of what we’re doing just not to confuse you we do have $100 million line to do that which we’ve been using.
But we’ve also just secured a $150 million line which really goes to reinvigorate outside of the traditional CDOs that we’ve viewed.
Our real estate lending business which is lending to borrowers who want to borrow to buy or refinance properties that was some sort of value-add transitional nature to it so we are able to and we think that that’s a mid teens kind of call it 12% to 17% kind of low-level return business that we like a lot.
Very helpful.
Good luck in 2012 now.
Thanks.
(Operator Instructions) Mr.
Cohen there is no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much and we look forward to reporting on our next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s conference thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2012 Resource Capital Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is [Pomi] and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
conference call for the first quarter ended March 31 2011.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
When used in this conference call the words believe anticipate expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including in the forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular item 1-A on the Form 10-K under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the three months ended March 31 2012 was 18.6 million or $0.23 per share diluted.
We paid a $0.20 per share for common share for the quarter in dividends or 16.9 million in aggregate on April 27 2012 to stockholders of record as of March 30 2012.
Our book value increased to $5.46 per share this quarter from $5.38 as of December 31 2011.
Our GAAP net income for the three months ended March 31 2012 was 14.5 million or $0.18 per share diluted as compared to 13.1 million or $0.22 for the three months ended March 31.
2011.
Total revenues increased by 4.7 million or 23% as compared to the three months ended March 31 2011 a year earlier.
Provisions for loan losses decreased by 16% as compared to the three months ended March 31 2011 and decreased 64% as compared to the three months ended December 31 2011.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of real estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
After reviewing our quarterly results one of our directors said to me congratulations seems very straightforward and good.
That sentiment is a very good summary of our performance this quarter.
We made money from our portfolio grew our book value our credit quality was good we kept our debt levels relatively low and opportunities to expand the franchise and company remained ever present.
From a financial standpoint our Adjusted Funds From Operations or AFFO rose to $0.23 from $0.21 last quarter.
We paid a sizeable and sustainable dividend of $0.20 for the quarter and our book value per share increased to $5.46 per share from $5.38 per share as of December 31 2011.
From an operational standpoint; we also faired well.
While our real estate loan production only posed $17 million of net investment for the quarter we did not sell any loans or get paid off on any loans.
Our loan book actually grew.
In addition our pipeline for real estate loans grew substantially and we are in the process of closing $73 million of new real estate loans during the second quarter.
As Dave Bloom will tell you over 85% of our current real estate portfolio are now whole loans senior loans and less than 11% mezzanine positions.
We worked hard to obtain those ratios.
Also late in the quarter we closed a $150 million warehouse line with Wells Fargo.
This will really expand our ability to accelerate our whole loan origination and to generate additional growth.
The world of real estate finance is finally [settling] and this should add I believe to our portfolio over the next few quarters.
Our Syndicated Bank Loan portfolio continued to perform well.
Credit improved substantially across the entire company provisions for loan decreased 64% from last quarter.
This trend has continued over the last few quarters.
Our leasing joint venture continues to grow and improve its portfolio.
We expect that venture to turn profitable later this year.
We continue to be very excited about its prospect.
Without a doubt the most exciting aspect of the last three months was all of the growth in our businesses.
As compared to the quarter ending March 31 2011; this quarter we recorded revenues of 25.4 million versus 20.6 million a year ago; a tremendous achievement given the steadfastness of our debt-to-equity level.
In addition the revenue growth came from both the real estate loan segment as well as the syndicated loan side of the business.
Other revenue also grew as we harvested a distressed equity investment in our joint venture at a very good profit.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Rescource Capital Corp.
commercial mortgage portfolio has a current committed of approximately $744 million in a granular pool of 49 individual loans.
In the first quarter of 2012 through today we closed and funded new loans totaling $17 million.
We are committed to and are closing five additional loans totaling (inaudible) and have issued a negotiated term sheet on two more acquisition loans totaling 39.15 million which will fund when the borrowers close on the properties that secure the loans.
Aggregate new loan activities since the beginning of 2012 is $127.5 million This quarter marks a return to whole loan production levels that we were experiencing in 2007 before the credit crisis when we were originating approximately $500 million annually.
While real estate debt markets are mercurial and can vary from quarter-to-quarter; we’ve seen an overall firming of fundamentals in many markets and are underwriting our consistent forward pipeline of approximately $250 million at any given time.
We are optimistic about meeting prior peak production levels and ultimately surpassing these numbers as we scale our well established origination platform.
Since we restarted our loan origination activities in the late 2010 we have actively pursuing new loan opportunities; although there have been several pullbacks in the real estate finance markets during which times our primary focus was on price discovery and the analysis of the credit trends.
Taking in to accounts periods in 2011 that we were not in full origination mode we’ve been actively looking in new lending opportunities for about 12 months in total.
During the time since we commenced our lending efforts again we have closed or are closing approximately 21 new loans totaling approximately $280 million.
The average size of our new [advantage] loans is 13.3 million and weighted average starting coupon is 6.96%.
However when you take in to account typical 1% origination fee which is accretive income over the initial two year term of the loans we’ve realized starting coupons of 7.46% on a floating rate basis over LIBOR floors.
While there are many lending opportunities we continue to be keenly aware of credit and deal structure; and although we are lending on likely transitional properties we are only doing loans with day one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
Notwithstanding the starting coupons that we have realized to date that has been [accompanying] in pricing as banks have reemerged and are aggressively to deploy capital in to the floating rate commercial real estate loans that post crisis valuations and while not perfectly correlated as CMBS [3.0] has taken hold with fixed rate coupons close to 5% this certainly adds to pricing pressure.
Regardless of others in the market the number and capacity of balance sheet lenders still greatly trails the ever expanding opportunity as said.
Yield continued to be guided by credit quality and make prudent pricing adjustments as may be required for high quality loans.
In September of 2011 our first CDO a $345 million vehicle was full when its reinvestment period closed.
Our second CDO a $500 million vehicle has a reinvestment period that ends in late June of this year and the balance of the restricted cash in that vehicle is committed to loans that we are currently closing.
With both of our CDOs full at the end of their respective reinvestment periods we’ll now utilize the $150 million term financing facility we put in place in late February which is designated specifically to fund our established [credit] lending business.
The addition of the leverage from the term facility will greatly increase net interest margins with leverage yields on new loans targeted between 13% and 18% which will increase the return on equity and overall profitability of RSO’s real estate lending platform.
Our existing financing facility has a revolving period prior mass funding loans that remained financed.
And we will seek to increase our existing facility as well as lineup additional prudent leverage as we continue to grow our commercial mortgage portfolio.
In speaking to RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolio as whole the underlying collateral days continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets.
With a portfolio breakdown of 38% - multifam loans; 13% - office; 20% - hotel; 17% - retail and 12% - other such as mixed use and self storage.
The portfolio is in components as follows; 88% whole loans 10% mezzanine loans and 2% B Notes.
The legacy subordinate debt portion of the portfolio has decreased dramatically overtime.
From a high of 47% in 2007 to the 12% we carry today.
A change of 35% which has shifted to self originated whole loans.
As our new loan production continues to grow subordinate debt continues or constitutes a significantly diminishing component of the portfolio.
Credit across the portfolio continues to move upwards and we know improving metrics across all asset classes.
The majority of the [problem] in securing our loans continue to realize improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and to trend in a positive direction.
There are still a small number of legacy transactions that require extra asset management attention.
But we remain extremely proactive in these situations which continue to resolve and be a much smaller portion of the portfolio.
In other commercial real estate activities we continue to utilize a $100 million CMBS credit facility as well as an additional CMBS repurchase facility to buy highly rated CMBS bonds and to deploy meaningful amounts of capital in to AAA investments for very healthy risk adjusted returns between 13% and 15%.
In addition to our whole loan origination in CMBS bond activities we continue to take advantage of opportunities to own properties.
RSO’s equity portfolio currently consists of four properties.
Multi-family property is comprised of 1154 units and one 30 000 square foot office building.
All of which continue hit or exceed their budgets.
Also RSO along with an institutional partner owns a portfolio of 16 distressed multifamily properties that were acquired at substantial discounts for a total investment just under $116 million.
RSO participates in up to 25% of the profits as these investments are harvested and RSO has already realized gains from the venture from early resolutions of a small portion of the [venture] investments.
RSO will continue to invest in both value add and distressed real estate transactions that provide opportunities for significant value creation and capital appreciation.
With that I will turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A.
Now I will also review our Syndicated Bank Loan portfolio.
Resource Capital’s bank loan portfolio or Syndicated Bank Loan portfolio has a caring value of approximately $1.2 billion at amortized cost.
Overall in my opinion our portfolios remain in an excellent condition and little has changed since last quarter.
As of March 31 2012 we have specific reserves of 2.5 million and general reserves of 2.6 million as compared to specific reserves of 1.6 million and general reserves of 1.7 million for the fourth quarter.
We continue to forecast a very very benign outlook in corporate credit especially at the loan level for the next year or two.
The default rate for the last 12 months was less than 1% or 0.5%.
This has been a terrific business line for Resource Capital and we will continue to allocate capital to it.
In addition to our portfolio of Syndicated Bank loans we also collect management fees for managing other CLOs.
Since we bought the rights of managed five bank loan portfolios we’ve received approximately $10.9 million in fees and received $2.1 million in fees this quarter alone.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
RSO’s Board declared a cash dividend in the first quarter of $0.20 per common share of approximately 17 million in the aggregate.
Our Adjusted Funds From Operations or AFFO was 18.6 million for the first quarter or $0.23 per common share.
AFFO was impacted by several non-cash adjustments totaling 4.3 million and to a lesser extent cash items of approximately 300 000.
This represents a payout ratio of approximately 91% and demonstrates our ability to cover the dividends from operating cash flow.
We continue to pass all the critical interest coverage and over-collateralization test in our two real estate CDOs and four bank loan CLOs through April of 2012.
Each of these structured financings performed and continue to generate good cash flow to us in 2012.
The CRE CDOs produced over 6.2 million and bank loan CLOs generated approximately 6.7 million of cash flow going to quarter ended March 31.
This compares favorably to the same period in 2011 when these structures generated 5.1 million and 6.3 million from CRE and bank loans respectively.
This reflects both improved credit as well as our ability to get the restricted cash balances from the 2011 put to work.
In addition in April we received an initial distribution in our newest deal Apidos CLO VIII of 1.1 million.
As of March 31 we have an excess of a 133 million of restricted cash in these structures on a combined basis.
This is comprised of approximately 88.7 million and 44.3 million in our bank loans and it’s real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances 39 million and 44 million are available for reinvestment in our CLOs and CDOs which we expect will provide meaningful spreads over the very low cost of the associated debt.
In fact as Dave Bloom mentioned we have commitment with borrowers to lend and thus fully invest the balance of the CRE CDO cash in our 2007 CDO during the second quarter.
Of the Q1 provisions for loan losses of 2.2 million 1.8 million is related to bank loans and 400 000 for real estate loans.
Regarding our bank loan portfolio we allocated 900 000 to general reserves and 900 000 for two loans in the fall.
On our real estate loans 400 000 was added to reserves for a previously impaired whole loans.
Overall I continue to characterize our credit as stable to improving and notably all of our 41 real estate loans both legacy and newly-underwritten loans keep on performing.
Our leverage ratio stands at 3.9 times at March 31.
When we treat our trough issuances which had a remaining term of over 24 years as equity our leverage is 3.4 times.
Our leverage decreased from December 31 primarily due to pay downs and run-off of CLO debt mainly in Apidos I as well as equity raised through our dividend reinvestment program and improvements in mark-to-mark (inaudible) indications when are available for sale security portfolio.
Focusing on real estate we began two years in 2010 approximately 2.3 times lever on our real estate CDOs.
If they are accounting for the debt repurchases since then in Q1 2012 approximately 1.6 lever in our real estate portfolio.
We ended the March quarter with GAAP book value per share of 5.46 up modestly from 5.38 at December 31.
The (inaudible) of change resulted primarily from improved mark-to-market adjustments on our available for sale CMBS and ABS portfolios of approximately $0.12 per share offset by the net difference between the cash dividend and net income from the quarter worth $0.03 per share based on outstanding shares at quarter end.
At March 31 our equity is allocated as follows: commercial real estate loans in CMBS 62%; commercial finance - 31%; and 7% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I will turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
With all discussion being behind us I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instruction).
Please standby for your first questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Congratulations on the good progress in the first quarter.
John I noticed that the common share count increased by about 5 million in the quarter.
I know that you didn’t do a public offering.
Was that a combination of DRIP plan issuance and may be a little bit of the aftermarket plan as well.
Yes.
Well we don’t do that to market but it was DRIP.
So it was all DRIP.
Yes.
I noticed recently while I guess not so much in the last couple of weeks but in the February --.
Sorry Steve I just wanted to mention that our average price was $5.54.
$5.54 okay.
Significantly above book value.
Right.
So do you know an ATM plan actually set up and just not using it or you just haven’t gone.
We don’t use ATM plans we only DRIP when the price is at a level and that we feel like it’s productive to DRIP.
So for instance one month when the price is down we will not DRIP and then the next month if it’s out we may do something very small’ we’ll have use for the capital.
Got it.
My second question is somewhat capital related too.
It seems with this new $150 million line in the current flow that you are in pretty good shape liquidity wise.
In the balance sheet it doesn’t seem that you have any real near comp pressing needs for additional capital things seemed to be balanced.
But we did see some companies come to market in February and March some mortgage [REITs] and take advantage of this historically low rates and issue either straight preferred or unsecured senior notes and coupons in the range of about 8% but kind of like Dave Bryant mentioned treating the trough as capital I think we view that more as capital than we do as debt.
I was just curious whether that type of security might have a roll in your balance sheet and might be appealing to you.
Well two things; first we signed a deal with Wells Fargo.
Obviously one of the reasons we are DRIPing is because we plan on expanding our balance sheet and to do $115 million line of credit you probably need $70 million of equity which we had some but no we’ve put away more so that we can be super aggressive in expanding our commercial real estate finance loan origination effort which is expanding as we speak.
So that’s the first thing.
The second thing; I think there is a great position in our balance sheet for a preferred more something like it in the 0.5% coupon.
Obviously we’ll be very creative even if all we do is buy back our common shares.
But we have reasons to believe we could put that money to work and use that to finally grow the dividend.
Okay that’s helpful.
And I apologize you are getting an advance rate probably of something like what $0.70 $0.75 on the dollar on your warehouse line and I had in my off-the-top analysis had failed to focus on the fact that you do need capital to draw that line down.
Yeah.
But we do have the capital so I want to entrust that we are not looking to do any kind of offering of any kind on the common side.
But we have as I was saying preferred stock at that rate obviously would be a lot cheaper for common share holders and if we can find the same type of investments we are making that would be accretive and a very productive thing for us.
My last question is the origination volume looks like it might be a little lumpy and I guess that’s because sort of the transactional nature of some of the transaction underlying these loans.
But would you say that run rate that maybe 15 is certainly low but maybe that [70] is high and it’s looking out say over the balance of this year.
Do you think may be something more in the 40 million to 50 million per quarter is more reasonable as far as what the average might be? I think while it’s lumpy it’s a continuously building process and then these yields many are acquisition financing so they will close in due time.
I think that a run rate 75 million sounds comfortable; we’d certainly like to be dealing one.
Well I think what Dave is saying is once we get up to - I mean it will lumpy for the next quarter too but we plan on getting the originating between 250 million and 400 million a year of this product.
By the way that’s the whole loan product that does not include mezzanine or other types of real estate finance that we might deal.
That’s very helpful.
Congrats on the good start to the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Couple of questions for you.
Just so I have it straight here you said that Dave and Dave both commented that you are fully filled on the second CDO that closes in June 3 and you already have commitments out in advance to have that fully filled up and so now you are going to go and use your Wells Fargo line for additional whole loan origination.
Yes.
Can you just remind us of just what the average LTV is off the current whole loan book and what you guys are looking to do from a go-forward perspective? Average LTV is probably about 75% in the current whole loan books that’s really where we are staying in our new loans to response equity in our deals the legacy loans are as I said performing and have come back from a low point.
So we say we are between 70% and 75% (inaudible).
I know you guys commented last quarter just want to make sure because your tax level was a little bit elevated this quarter relative to the run rates in 2011.
Are you guys of over the hump with any retest issues.
I know we had that one time event last quarter.
I just want to make sure with the CDO being filled off do you expect your tax rate to go back to that 1.8ish level or should I assume the first quarter run rate going forward.
The first quarter run rate Dave was effected somewhat by a really strong performance in our structured notes and trading portfolio.
So probably closer to 1.8 to 2 is probably a decent run rate.
We feel pretty good from where we test perspective for 2012 with as you say getting that money put to work in the real estate CDOs and some other things that we expect to happen not the least to which are some of these joint venture gains that Dave also mentioned in his remarks.
Gabe you might look in Schedule II in the press release where we talk about cash distribution and you’ll start to see the ramp up of real estate income even with in the 2006-I RREF and 2007-I RREF CDOs which are commercial real estate loans and you will see some of the early syndicated bank loan deals are actually coming down a little bit.
So you will see that shift from a - it’s great to have that income when we needed it but now we are shifting back to the real estate side.
Perfect.
That’s helpful.
Two other just quick questions.
Can you give me a breakout of your borrowings you just kind of dealt what did your current REPO or warehouse balance was as of 1Q relative to your CDO balance.
Well we don’t really have one line that’s actively being used right now because we haven’t started using the Wells Fargo line yet.
These new loans are exposing hopefully one or two on to that.
So we have - how much on the CMBS line? I am sure you’ve an idea of how much you guys have put to work and then kind of what you still have left.
(inaudible) at the end of march we have about 65 of the 100 used on the CMBS facility.
So there’s about 35 left there and of course we haven’t touched the 150 yet but obviously as Dave and other have said we expect to start doing that some time probably this quarter.
One last question guys if I might.
From a transitional CRE perspective outside it’s obviously your whole loan kind of core business but you’d mentioned can you guys now own your hard asset.
How much of - do you have a hard number for how much equity is like to allocate bucket.
I know 62% of your total equity is in CRE but does that kind of transitional distress whatever the word you want to use.
Do you have a targeted allocation for that asset class? It’s typically about 5% to 7% of our equity and that can change.
Obviously we were buying opportunistically as the market was low.
You will see us probably in the near future have some good gains on those and we’ll have to decide if that’s opportunistic or that.
These come with a big dividend so it’s sort of a hard thing yet to balance.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this stage.
(Operator Instruction).
Ma’am are there any other questions? There are no questions coming through at the moment.
Okay.
Well thank you very much.
We’re always available to walk anybody through our business and we appreciate the support very much.
See you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation you may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2012 Resource Capital Corp Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Joe and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only-mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
conference call for the second quarter ended June 30 2012.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believe anticipate expect and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on the Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1-A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted Funds From Operations or AFFO for the three months ended June 30 2012 were $22.2 million or $0.26 per share diluted.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per common share for the quarter were $17.3 million in aggregate on July 26 2012 to stockholders of record as of June 29 2012.
Our book value increased to $5.44 per share this quarter from $5.38 as of December 31 2011.
Our GAAP net income for the three months ended June 30 2012 was $16.4 million or $0.20 per share diluted as compared to $9.2 million or $0.13 per share for the three months ended June 30 2011.
Total operating revenues increased by $3.9 million or 18% and $8.6 million or 20% as compared to the three and six months ended June 30 2011.
Cash on hand of $110.2 million at June 30 2012 a decrease of $125.6 million from $235.8 million at June 30 2011.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
In my opinion Resource Capital performed extremely well in the second quarter.
Our credit quality was good we kept our debt levels relatively low and opportunity to expand the franchise and the company remain ever present.
From a cash perspective we earned 130% of what we distributed as our dividend.
Our Adjusted Funds From Operations or AFFO was $0.26 per share diluted and GAAP net income was $0.26 per share diluted an increase of 10% for both over the first quarter.
Both GAAP net income and AFFO increased over 13% from the first quarter.
We paid a sizable and sustainable dividend of $0.20 for the quarter and our book value per share increased to $5.44 per share from $5.38 per share as of December 31 2011.
Our liquidity remains excellent and we had approximately $110 million of cash including $32 million of unrestricted cash as of June 30 even after making considerable investments during the quarter.
You may notice that our cash has declined significantly from over $235 million last June.
This reflects meaningful new investment activity.
Much of it in June which has helped fuel growth in operating revenues.
Our portfolio of loans continue to earn nicely.
Over the last six months we grew our real estate loan portfolio by over $80 million.
We expect this trend to continue as Dave Bloom and his real estate debt team continue to find good opportunities to lend money against good real estate.
You will notice in our press release schedule 2 that’s annualized earnings from our two real estate CDOs is up sharply.
We also expect this trend to continue in the next quarter as we add significant low production into those vehicles through June.
Our Syndicated Bank Loan portfolio continued to perform well.
Credit improved substantially across the company.
This trend has continued over the last few quarters.
Our leasing joint venture continues to grow and improve its portfolio and near profitability.
We expect that venture to turn profitable later this year.
We continue to be very excited about its prospects.
Without a doubt the most exciting aspect of the last three months was all the growth in our businesses.
As compared to the quarter ending June 30 2011 this quarter we recorded revenues of $25.3 million versus $21.5 million a year ago.
A tremendous achievement given the steadfastness of our debt to equity levels.
In addition the revenue growth came from both the real estate loan segment as well as the Syndicated Loan side of the business.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $908 million in a diverse and granular pool.
During the second quarter of 2012 through today we closed five new self-originated whole loans totaling $75.2 million and we have fully underwritten issue term sheets on eight additional loans totaling approximately $90 million with terms on five more loans totaling $68 million in active negotiation.
We are still underwriting a consistent forward pipeline of $250 million on average and are seeing ample opportunities to make loans secured by strong real estate to well capitalized sponsors.
That said while overall sale and financing volumes continue to increase as commercial real estate fundamentals improve and additional markets recover we have noted that acquisitions are taking longer as the Bid-Ask discrepancy has returned in healthier markets.
As a result certainly fully negotiated applications for new loans need to be refreshed as acquisition terms change were scrubbed altogether as certain deals fall apart over time.
Notwithstanding this timing dynamic our pipeline of high quality deals has returned to levels we experienced through 2007 before the credit crisis.
Although at new basis valuations that take into account the broad re-pricing that has occurred across the market.
We remain optimistic about meeting prior peak production levels of approximately $500 million of new loans per year and also in the least surpassing these numbers as we scale our well established national origination platform.
While we see many lending opportunities we continue to be keenly aware of credit value and deal structure and although we are lending on widely transitional properties we are only doing loans with day one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
As I mentioned on previous calls in September of 2011 our first CDO of $345 million vehicle was full when its reinvestment period closed.
Our second CDO of $500 million vehicle reached its reinvestment cut off in June of this quarter and this vehicle was also fully invested at that time.
With both of our CDOs having reached the end of their respective reinvestment periods we now utilize the $150 million term facility we put in place in late February which is designed specifically to fund our established bridge lending business.
The addition of leverage with the term facility will greatly increase net interest margins with leverage yields on new loans targeted between 14% and 18% which will increase the return on equity and overall profitability of RSOs real estate lending platform.
Our existing financing facility has a revolving period prior to match funding the loans that remain financed and we will seek to increase our existing facility as well as lineup additional prudent leverage as we continue to grow our commercial mortgage portfolio.
RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 47 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $728 million.
The underlying collateral base continues to be spread across the major asset categories and geographically diverse markets with a portfolio breakdown of 35% multifamily 15% office 20% hotel 18% retail and 12% others such as research and development and mixed use.
The portfolio is in components as follows; 88% whole loans 10% mezzanine loans and 2% B notes.
Notwithstanding the starting coupons that we have realized to date that average approximately 6.8% on a floating rate basis.
As CMBS 3.0 has taken hold with fixed rate coupons close to 5% and banks and insurance companies continue to be more aggressive on the high quality assets that we lend against we have seen a tightening in pricing.
Regardless we see the opportunity set for our traditional floating rate bridge loans continuing to broaden as more than $1 trillion of scheduled maturities are reached over the next three years and the capacity of established balance sheet lender especially those who focused on loans between $10 million and $30 million in size like RSO trailed the vast opportunity that continue to develop.
Credit across the portfolio continues to improve move upward and we note good metric across all asset classes.
The majority of the property securing our loans continue to realized improved cash flow on a year over year basis and are trending in the positive direction.
The very small number of legacy transactions that continue to require extra asset management attention grow smaller each quarter as assets were recapitalized or sold and paid off.
We remain extremely focused and proactive in the resolution of these situations.
In our other commercial real estate activities we continue to utilize our $100 million CMBS credit facility as well as an additional CMBS repurchase facility to buy highly rated CMBS bonds and deploy meaningful amounts of capital into AAA investments for a very healthy risk adjusted returns of approximately 15%.
In addition to our whole loan origination and CMBS bond activities; we continue to take advantage of opportunities to own properties.
RSO’s primary portfolio continues to confess to four properties; three multifamily properties totaling 1 154 units and one 30 000 square foot office building all of which continue to perform at or above expectations.
RSO along with an institutional partner also owns a portfolio of 17 non-performing loans in distress to multifamily properties.
These assets were acquired at substantial discounts and currently represent a total investment of approximately $136 million.
RSO participates in up 25% of the profits as these investments are realized and has already booked gains from early resolutions of a small portion of the ventures transactions.
RSO continue to invest in both value-add and distress real estate transactions that provide opportunities for significant value creation and capital appreciation.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I want to review our Syndicated Bank Loan portfolio.
We source capital Syndicated Bank Loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1.2 billion at amortized cost.
Overall I believe that our portfolios remain in excellent condition and little has changed since last quarter.
As of June 30 2012 we have specific reserves of $2.1 million and general reserves of $3.1 million as compared to specific reserves of $2.5 million and general reserve of $2.6 million for the first quarter.
We continue to forecast a very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next year or two.
The default rate for the last 12 months was 0.5%.
This has been a terrific business line for Resource Capital and we will continue to allocate capital to it.
In addition to our portfolio of Syndicated Bank Loan we also collect management fees when we bought the rights to manage five other CLOs.
During the six months ended June 30 2012 we have received $3.7 million in fees and received $1.8 million in fees this quarter alone.
A very good transaction.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our CFO to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s board declared a cash dividend for the first quarter of $0.20 per common share or approximately $17.3 million.
Our Adjusted Funds From Operations or AFFO was $22.2 million for the second quarter or $0.26 per common share diluted.
AFFO was impacted by several non-cash adjustments totaling $5.8 million and to a lesser extent cash items of approximately $860 000.
This represents an AFFO payout ratio of approximately 78% and demonstrates our ability to cover the dividend from cash flow.
We continue to pass all of the critical interest coverage and over collateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and four bank loan CLOs through to June.
Each of these structured financing has performed well and have generated stable cash flow to us in 2012.
The CRE CDO has produced over $13.4 million and bank loan CLOs generated approximately $14.7 million of cash flow during the six months ended June 30.
This compares favorably with the same six month period in 2011 when these structures generated $9.9 million and $13.5 million from real estate and bank loans respectively.
This reflects both improved credit as well as our ability to get the restricted cash balances from 2011 put to work.
In addition in April we received an initial $1.1 million from our newest deal Apidos CLO VIII.
As of June 30<sup>th</sup> we have an excess of $75.3 million of restricted cash in these structures combined comprised of approximately $74.4 million and $775 000 in our in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances $18.2 million and $775 000 are available for reinvestment in our two available CLOs which we expect will provide very attractive spreads over the cost of the associated debt which is currently a very low weighted average rate of 1.63%.
The reduction of the real estate restricted cash balance from first quarter of $44 million reflects our getting fully invested as Dave Bloom mentioned in the 2007 real estate CDO.
Of the Q2 provisions for loan losses of $4.2 million approximately $800 000 is related to bank loans and $3.5 million for real estate loans.
Regarding our bank loan portfolio we increased our general reserves by $500 000 to account for a relatively minor credit deterioration.
The balance of $300 000 was on several positions later sold at a loss.
On our real estate loans $300 000 represents adjustments for two separate loans.
Approximately $800 000 was added to reserves for a previously impaired whole loan and $2.4 million was added to reserves for a loan under a pending sale agreement which was written down to the expected sale proceeds.
Overall I continue to characterize our credit as stable to improving and notably all of our real estate loans are current and keep on performing.
Our leverage stands at 3.7 times at June 30.
When we treat our troughs issuances which have a remaining term of over 24 years as equity our leverage is 3.2x.
Our leverage decreased from December 31<sup>st</sup> primarily due to pay downs and run-off of CLO debt and of CRE DDO debt as well as equity raised through the preferred offering and through our dividend program and improvements in the mark-to-market indications on our available for sale security portfolio.
I’d like to point out that we began selling preferred shares through our at-the-market agreement filed in June and have sold approximately 240 000 shares at a weighted average price of 24 26 for net proceeds of $5.7 million through July 31<sup>st</sup>.
Of note this ATM program has levered our weighted average effective cost on our preferred stock to 8.91% down from 9.04% on our initial preferred stock offering (inaudible).
Focusing on real estate leverage we began 2010 approximately 2.3 times levered on our real estate CDOs.
We end the second quarter a very conservative 1.5 times levered on our entire real estate portfolio.
We ended June 2012 with GAAP book value of 5.44 per share up from year-end 2011 and down slightly from 5.46 at March 31<sup>st</sup>.The $0.02 decline from March 31<sup>st</sup> resulted primarily from lower mark-to-market valuations on a combination of our available for sale securities both CMBS and AVS and our cash flow hedges.
At June 30 our equity is allocated as follows.
Commercial real estate loans in CMBS 64%; commercial finance 30%; and 6% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instruction).
Please standby for your first question.
First question comes from the line of Lee Cooperman from Omega Advisors.
Please proceed.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Hi Lee.
Good morning Jon.
I guess could you elaborate a little bit on the sale of the preferred which is close to 9% what those dollars that are coming in at 9% enable you to do and what kind of return you can earn on that money? We generally from an equity perspective just to give you an example whether it’s in the bank loan sector or in the real estate sector where we make senior loans with about 65% leverage it’s really since it’s perpetual preferred and equity substitute.
So it’s substituting for expanding the portfolio with common stock and our returns typically are in the sort of 12% to 15% or even 16% range.
So we’re getting some nice leverage for the common stock.
So you think you could earn more than the 9% on the money you’re putting out your leverage? Yeah.
We typically earn 12% to 15%.
Okay thank you.
Good luck.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Steve Delaney of JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi everyone.
Hi Steve.
How are you doing? I’m doing well.
Jon congrats on a very positive quarter.
It’s obvious to see the improvement in the corporations both quarter to quarter and year over year.
Thank you.
The growth in the CRE that’s what you guys have been talking about the pipeline building and it’s obviously starting to come through and I guess this is a high quality problem the kind you’d like to have.
But it would seem that while you’ve got 130 million remaining on your line with that pipeline that Dave Bloom described including term sheets that are being negotiated it looks like you’ve got about 150 million.
So I guess if you would just kind of what your view if we look out from now to the end of the year in terms of your capacity to be able to fund the pipeline with the line but also understanding that the advance rate is not 100%.
I guess where do you see yourself kind of hitting the wall to where you might need new equity capital beyond the preferred stock that you’re adding? We’re pretty well – from a liquidity standpoint we always try to be a little bit ahead of the game which is why we utilize the preferred program which we’re now selling preferred at like 8.8% or something like that and we have $32 million of unrestricted cash and we still have some reinvestment opportunities.
So we feel like we’re at least through the next like three to six months unless we see opportunities to really expand the production which and things come our way a little quicker which might happen then we feel like we’re fairly well capitalized although as Dave said the origination is heating up much quicker which is a good problem to have.
We also have excellent relationships with multiple banks where we’re expanding those lines.
But we certainly think that we can build the portfolio nicely with what we have today but if we see an opportunity you’re seeing revenues go up.
You’re seeing our net interest margin go up.
So we have an opportunity to do that accretively to shareholders and start to think about the dividend over time moving up.
That’s something that we’re putting ourselves in position for.
Is there – I think the press release mentioned about 11 million in the preferred issuance to date.
Is there a target or a goal? How big could that program get and maybe as a percentage of your total equity.
I think that we would – we’re obviously cognizant of keeping it as low leverage for our equity.
Right now we’re about $500 million of equity and only 11 million in preferred.
So we have a long way to go although we do have $50 million of trust preferred as well.
So although that’s relatively inexpensive LIBOR plus 375 I believe.
So I would say at least another 40 million to 50 million maybe even more.
Okay.
So maybe total somewhere 50 to 75 possibly would be a reasonable total? Yeah.
And obviously as we grow we’ll grow the preferred proportionately… With the common.
Okay and just one final thing for me just on financing.
You’re using term bank loans for these bridge loans but is there anything going on more in terms of structured finance as this market evolves where your whole loans where you might be able to do something more of a permanent structure as far as sort of a senior sub structure or even – is there even chatter out there about a CDO 2.0 concept? Yes Steve absolutely.
We’ve been in contact really there’s been some starts and stops over the last six months to a year.
But we’re in contact with people who want to structure and so whether you call it CDO or a structured finance vehicle that securitizes those loans and when we’re ready we have no doubt that we’ll be able to do that.
It’s just a matter of how much leverage you want and what it’s going to cost you.
It’s not whether you could get it done or not.
Okay got it.
And I think that we’re seeing right now that it’s very very close to something that’s very appetizing  for companies like Resource Capital and I want to add that Dave Bloom and the team here Dave Bryant and Jeff Blomstrom and everybody here have set us up because we have a very nice line of credit at Wells.
But we have a lot of senior loans in CDO 1 which eventually will deleverage to a point where we want to add them into a package and be able to securitize the package as a whole.
And I guess one of the key advantages would be in any structure like that you’d be looking to do something that would be non-recourse right? Yes.
All right.
Thanks so much for the time and the color this morning.
Appreciate it.
The next question comes from Gabe Poggi of FBR Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Gabe.
How are you doing? Good.
How are you? Good.
I wanted to piggyback on Steve’s comment about structured financing and toggle over to the CLO side.
Are you guys seeing opportunities to potentially do more there? I know you obviously have to deal with retest et cetera but just kind of from an Apidos perspective is there more oomph potentially to do more there? Oh yes.
We think that certainly Apidos and this new venture with CBC and Resource America will be a lot more CLOs and it’s just a matter of timing until we do another one and that’s timing as you said to – that market is extremely wide open.
Returns are good.
Credit is benign.
We obviously have a deep experience.
We did do Apidos VIII which closed – when did it close? Closed last October I believe.
Last October and was fully ramped by the end of the year or early part of the year.
So we’re now starting to earn pretty good returns out of that as well.
We bought those loans at a deep discount to par and Gretchen Bergstresser and the team there did a great job helping us put that together and there’s lots of opportunity more of that.
It’s just a matter of growing our real estate portfolio at the right rates.
Dave Bloom and the team have started to put up some real loans real high quality loans grow the portfolio.
You can see in the schedule in the press release I forget which schedule.
It’s schedule one I think no schedule let’s see whatever schedule it is that we’re starting to really add net to our bottom line in terms of both the revenue but also in terms of netting loans as opposed to originating 50 million and selling or being paid back 40 million so we haven’t met 10.
We’re now seeing three months six months 12 months of really adding to our portfolio and I think that that number is going to be considerably higher going forward because the last six months to 12 months have been really doing loans in the old CDOs that have extended those out three years or 18 months or five years or longer so we can hold on to those liabilities longer.
And so the things that were coming due are sort of out of the way and I think we’re going to see some substantial asset growth there.
That’s very helpful.
One quick question.
You guys mentioned the new first mortgages that you’ve done at 6.9% all in rate.
Can you just remind me? I know that Dave talked about that you guys have seen some tightening but just kind of generally how much tightening you’ve seen just so I can have a gauge on the market because obviously even with the line you guys have getting 14 15% ROE is still very attractive but just wanted to know that 6.9% where it is relative to the existing book so to speak.
It’s certainly come in from when we started.
Our earlier loans were closer to 7.5.
We’ve really seen things tighten by about a point.
But again you need to remember we take a point origination fee in point access fee which is meaningful.
That initial point is spread out over the first two years which is the initial term.
So we’re really doing loans sort of effectively even at 6.5.
That’s really an effective 7 and like you said high quality loans on the line are strong returning assets.
And I just want to remind you Gabe that this means that like certain classes let’s say retail or even if we did a small hotel loan or something low leverage we’d be maybe closer to 8% and a multi might be 6.25.
So we happen to originate things that were very very safe very very good loans we believe and try to play in that area of hey I don’t want to go to CMBS I want to be with these guys for two to five years and we look at that and we amortize our fees over that and say this is like 7.5 8 and we’re borrowing at 2.5 and we’re getting 70% leverage and that obviously looks very nice in the mid to upper teens.
That’s good.
What’s the LTV on – just kind of generally speaking where are you guys just as a reminder targeting today’s LTV in the 75ish? Yeah it could be – again it depends on the asset class but it could be anywhere from 55 60 to 80 to even 85 in multi where we’re very comfortable.
We valued and we just get paid for it.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks guys.
Great quarter.
Sir you have no further questions at this time.
Well we really thank everybody for your support and we look forward to continuing to build our company with you.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and enjoy the rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the quarter three 2012 Resource Capital Corp earnings conference call.
My name’s Dave I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session toward the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
CEO</strong>  Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp conference call for the third quarter ended September 30<sup>th</sup> 2012.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expect and similar expressions are intended to be taken as forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Form 8-K 10-Q and 10-K.
And in particular Item 1-A on the Form 10-K report under the tile Risk Factors.
Listed is a caution not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
This is a precaution not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the three months ended September 30th 2012 were $0.26 per share diluted.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per common share for the quarter on October 26th 2012 to stockholders of record as of September 28th 2012.
Our book value increased to $5.51 per share this quarter from $5.38 as of December 31st 2011 and $5.44 as of June 30th 2012.
Our GAAP net income for the three months ended September 30th 2012 was $18.2 million or $0.20 per share diluted as compared to $14.9 million or $0.20 per share diluted for the three months ended September 30th 2011.
Total operating revenues increased by $3 million or 13% and $11.7 million or 18% as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30th 2011.
Cash on hand was $169.5 million at September 30th 2012.
With those highlights out of the way I will not introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate Lending David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
In my opinion the third quarter was another terrific quarter for Resource Capital.
We achieved what every company in our sector would like to achieve.
First we paid a sizeable cash dividend.
Second we covered that dividend by a margin of 30% or said a different way we earned 130% of what we distributed as a dividend.
Third while paying the sizable dividend we also increased book value and while doing all of this we raised additional common capital at 110% of book value per common share to diversify and grow our already solid portfolio.
On top of the common capital raise we also raised relatively cheap capital for ourselves by issuing over $40 million of preferred stock with an average coupon of approximately 8.35%.
While this is the morning before Halloween trust me when I say that this is no masquerade.
Our credit quality was good.
We kept our debt levels relatively low.
And opportunities to expand the franchise and the company remain ever present.
Our liquidity remains excellent and we had approximately $170 million of cash including $113 million of unrestricted cash as of September 30th even after making considerable investments during the quarter.
You may notice that our cash has declined significantly from over $235 million last June.
This reflects meaningful new investment activity which has helped fuel growth in operating revenue.
The cash of course is also increased due to the common stock and preferred offerings which allowed us to grow our portfolio diversify it and increase book value through accretive offerings.
Our portfolio of loans continued to perform well.
During 2012 we have grown our real estate loan portfolio by over $150 million net.
We expect this trend to continue as we continue to find good opportunities to lend money against good real estate.
We have greatly strived to grow our origination channel in real estate and we believe that the investments we have made in our team and systems will start to pay off.
While our portfolio stayed constant for the quarter due to repayments from a legacy $28 million loan legacy meaning made before the crisis and another $6.5 million loan made in 2011 we underwrote and funded a series of in my opinion very attractive loans.
We are picking up pace and expect this portfolio to grow tremendously in the next few quarters net of payoffs.
Dave Bloom will elaborate on this in the real estate portfolio momentarily.
I do want to mention that the revenues from our real estate CDO's as noted on schedule two of this press release continue to grow.
For example we received cash distributions of $22.3 million in the nine months ended September 30th 2012 from these two real estate CDOs versus $22.4 million for the entire year of 2011; a great achievement by the team.
Our syndicated bank loan portfolio continued to perform well.
Credit improved substantially across the company.
This trend has continued over the last few quarters.
Our leasing joint venture LEAF continues to grow and improve its portfolio.
We expect that venture to turn profitable later this year.
We expect it sometime in November or December on a monthly basis.
We continue to be excited about its prospects.
We also continue to explore additional opportunities to diversify and invest capital to provide current return long-term growth and do so with good risk management.
The growth in our business has been exciting.
As compared to the quarter ending September 30th 2011 this quarter we recorded revenues of $26.5 million versus $23.4 million a year ago.
This trend will continue; a tremendous achievement given the steadfastness of our debt to equity levels.
In addition the revenue growth came from both the real estate loan segment as well as the syndicated loan side of the business.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom our head of Real Estate to review our real estate activities.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp's commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $894 million in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 48 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $717 million.
The underlying collateral base continues to be geographically diverse spread across the major asset categories with a portfolio breakdown of 33% multi-family 15% office 21% hotel 18% retail and 13% other such as research and development and mixed use.
The portfolio was in components as follows; 87% whole loans 10% mezzanine loans and 3% B-notes.
Through the third quarter of 2012 RSO has originated new debt positions with an aggregate balance of $115.4 million at a weighted average starting coupon on a floating rate basis of 6.9% including origination fees.
During the third quarter of 2012 through today we closed three new self-originated whole loans totaling $34.9 million with four more loans totaling another $51 million in process.
In addition we have terms on eight more loans totaling approximately $154 million in active negotiation.
While we see many lending opportunities we continue to be keenly focused and aware of credit value and deal structure.
And although we are lending on lightly transitional properties we're only doing loans with day-one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
With our two structured finance vehicles our CDOs totaling $845 million having been fully deployed at the expiration of their respective reinvestment periods we not utilize a $150 million term financing facility that we put in place with Wells Fargo Bank earlier this year.
As I've said on previous calls the Wells Fargo term facility is specifically designed to fund our long-established bridge lending business.
The addition to the leverage from the term facility greatly increased net interest margins with leverage yields of new loans targeted between 13% and 18% which will increase the return on equity and overall profitability of RSOs real estate direct origination platform.
Our existing financing facility has a revolving period prior to match funding loans that remain financed.
And we will seek to increase our existing facility as well as line up additional prudent leverage as we continue to grow our commercial mortgage portfolio.
In addition we are actively exploring long-term securitized financing options to more efficiently match fund our commercial mortgage portfolio.
We are still underwriting a consistent forward pipeline of $250 …  Hello did we lose our conference line?  Operator.
Hello.
We are still underwriting  a consistent forward pipeline of $250 million on average.
And are seeing ample opportunities to make the loans secured by strong real estate to well capitalized sponsors.
That said while overall sale and financing volumes continue to increase as commercial real estate fundamentals improve and additional markets recover we have noted that acquisitions and refinancings are taking longer to come to fruition as a bit as disparity returned in healthier markets with sellers feeling slightly stronger about holding pricing levels and terms and buyers and borrowers looking to price to perfection.
As a result certain fully-negotiated applications for new loans need to be refreshed as acquisition terms change over time or uphold altogether as certain deals are cancelled.
Regardless of this timing  phenomenon that we noted in the last two quarters the number of year-end transactions has picked up dramatically in the last 30 to 45 days.
In addition we see deal flow for our traditional floating rate bridge loans continuing to broaden as more than $1 trillion of scheduled maturities are reached over the next three years.
And the capacity of established balance sheet lenders especially those who focus on loans between $10 and $30 million in size like RSO not being able to accommodate the vast opportunities that continue to develop.
We remain optimistic about meeting and we're exceeding prior peak level production levels of approximately $600 million of new loans per year as we continue to grow our well-established national origination platform and add new loan programs to our existing product offerings.
Credit across the portfolio continues to trend in a positive direction with improving metrics across all asset classes.
The majority of the properties securing our loans are continuing to realize improved cash flow on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
And the entire portfolio remains performing with no defaults.
As assets are recapitalized or sold and paid off the few legacy positions that require extra asset management attention grows smaller each quarter.
And we remain extremely focused on the ultimate resolution of the limited number of situations.
In our other commercial real estate activities RSOs CMBS portfolio is now approximately $177 million in the aggregate.
We continue to utilize our CMBS credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank and an additional CMBS repurchase facility to buy highly-rated CMBS bonds and deploy meaningful amounts of capital in Triple-A investments or very healthy risk adjusted returns exceeding 15%.
In addition to our whole loan origination and CMBS bond activities we continue to take advantage of opportunities to own properties.
This quarter RSO converted a whole loan on a well-located four-diamond hotel and spa to an equity position.
RSO's primary equity portfolio now consists of five properties three multi-family properties totaling 1 154 units one 30 000-square-foot office building and one hotel.
All of which are performing at or above budget.
Also RSO along with an institutional partner owns a portfolio of 17 non-performing loans in distressed multi-family properties.
These assets acquired at substantial discounts are –currently represent a total investment of approximately $136 million.
RSO participates in up to 25% of the profits as these investments are realized and has already booked gains from the resolution of some of the venture's assets.
RSO will continue to invest in both value add and distressed real estate transactions that provide opportunities for significant value creation and capital appreciation.
With that I'll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I will also review our syndicated bank loan portfolio.
Resource Capital's syndicated bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1.1 billion at amortized cost.
Overall I believe that our portfolio has remained in excellent condition and little has changed since last quarter.
As of September 30th 2012 we have specific reserves of $2.1 million and general reserves of $3 million as compared to specific reserves of $2.1 million and general reserves of $3.1 million for the second quarter.
We continue to forecast a very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next year or two.
The default rate for the last 12 months was 0.43% or less than 1/2 a percent.
Great job by Gretchen Bergstresser and her team.
This has been a terrific business line for Resource Capital and we will continue to allocate capital to it.
In addition to our portfolio of syndicated bank loans we also collect management fees from our acquisition of the right to manage five other CLOs.
During the nine months ended September 30th 2012 we received $5.4 million in fees.
This has been a very good transaction.
I also want to mention that we lowered our investment in investments trading securities from $44.2 million to $25.8 million after we bought distressed CLOs subordinate tranches starting in 2010.
We sold much of this in the 9/30 quarter.
We realized returns during that period far in excess of 50% compounded per year; a great transaction by our team.
I just wanted to thank our employees who were involved for such an amazing investment returns once again.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s Board declared a cash dividend for the third quarter of $0.20 per common share or approximately 19.9 million in the aggregate.
Our adjusted funds from operations were AFFO was 23 million for the third quarter or $0.26 per common share diluted.
AFFO was impacted by several non-cash adjustments totaling 4.2 million and to a lesser extent cash items of approximately 425 000.
This represents an AFFO payout ratio of approximately 86% and demonstrates our ability to cover the dividend from operating cash flow.
I would also like to point out that included in our AFFO our realized gains from sales in the trading portfolio that Jon just mentioned where we monetized significant valuation improvement in that portfolio.
The realized gains in that portfolio were 6.2 million before associated income taxes of 3.1 million and other expenses of 600 000.
Thus even if we renewed those gains net of those associated expenses of 2.5 million were approximately $0.03 per common share from AFFO we’d still have AFFO of $0.23 per common share.
We continue to pass all the critical interest coverage and overcollateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and four bank loans CLOs through September of 2012.
Each of these structured financings performed well and continues to generate stable or even improving cash flow to us in 2012.
The CRE CDOs produced over 22.3 million and bank loan CLOs generated approximately 24.5 million of cash flow during the nine months ended September 30<sup>th</sup>.
This compares favorably to the same period in 2011 when they generated 15.1 million and 20.1 million from CRE and bank loans respectively.
This reflects both improved credit as well as our ability to deploy restricted cash balances.
As of September 30<sup>th</sup> we have an excess of 54.8 million of restrictive cash in these structures comprised of approximately 54 million and 800 000 in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances 15.7 million is available for reinvestment in two of our CLOs which we expect will provide very attractive spreads over the cost of the associated debt which is a very low weighted average rate of 1.61%.
The CRE restricted cash balances are now designated to repay the senior notes on two real estate CDOs as the reinvestment period on those CDOs has expired.
Note that we own a meaningful amount of these senior notes so that as underlying CDO collateral pays off principal will be returned to us and become unrestricted cash available for reinvestment at which should be higher returns on equity.
Of the Q3 provisions for loan losses of approximately 1.4 million 366 000 is related to bank loans and 1 million for real estate loans.
<br>Regarding our bank loan portfolio we slightly increased reserves for positions sold at losses and decreased our general reserves as we see modestly improving credit conditions in the balance of that portfolio.
On our real estate loans 494 000 was added to reserves for a previously impaired whole loan and 511 000 was added to reserves for a loan subject to a modification agreement for which we provided protective advances on the collateral held in our CDOs.
Overall I continue to characterize our credit as stable to improving and as Dave Bloom cited all of our CRE loans are current and keep on performing.
Our leverage ratio stands at a very modest 2.9 times at September 30<sup>th</sup>.
When we treat our [inaudible] issuances which have a remaining term of over 24 years as equity our leverage is 2.6 times.
Focusing on real estate leverage we end Q 2012 a very conservative 1.3 times levered on the entire real estate portfolio.
Our leverage continued to decrease from December 31<sup>st</sup><sup> </sup> 2011 primarily due to pay downs and runoff of CLO and CDO debt as well as equity raised in a common stock offering in September.
Also capital from our dividend reinvestment program and improvements in mark-to-market indications on our available-for-sale securities portfolio as well as two preferred stock offerings.
As part of our capital markets efforts we began selling preferred shares in June through an [inaudible]-market program and have sold approximately 411 000 shares at a weighted average price of $24.25 per share for net proceeds of 9.8 million through September 30<sup>th</sup>.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds of both series of preferred stock outstanding is 8.66%.
In terms of liquidity after paying the third quarter common stock dividend last Friday we have a total of 174 million comprised of 99 million of unrestricted cash and 75 million of restricted cash.
We ended the September 2012 quarter with GAAP book value per share of 5.51 up from 5.44 at June 30<sup>th</sup>.
The $0.07 change resulted primarily from improved mark-to-market valuations on a combination of our available for sale CMBS and ABS portfolios and from the net proceeds generated by an accretive common stock offering.
At September 30<sup>th</sup> our equity is allocated as follows: Commercial real estate loans and CMBS 70% commercial finance 28% and 2% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thanks Dave Bryant.
And now with that I open the call for any questions.
(Operator instructions).
Please stand by for your first question which comes from Steve Delaney at JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and congratulations on a strong quarter.
CEO</strong>  Thanks Steve.
I guess this is addressed to David Bloom.
David you ran through the pipeline in some detail and I apologize I was writing as fast as I could but couldn’t quite keep up.
I believe you said and correct me if I’m wrong here that you continue to look at a long-term forward pipeline of about $250 million in potential fundings.
But could you tighten it down maybe for the next two quarters say for fourth quarter of 2012 and first quarter of ’13 and give us you know a tighter sense for which you really expect to see in closings for the next two quarters? Real Estate</strong>  Well sure Steve.
I mean you know as I noted there’s a lot of moving parts but as far as deals in process for the fourth quarter it’s another 51 million.
How many loans was that? Real Estate</strong>  That’s four.
Four loans for about 51 okay.
Real Estate</strong>  And you know I – past being pro [inaudible] because we continue to ramp you know I’m saying you know 50 again in the first quarter.
Okay very good.
Okay so the 50 million kind of… CEO</strong>  Steve this is Jonathan.
Obviously you know that you know it’s a lumpy business.
Sometimes these loans can take you know three weeks six weeks eight weeks to close you know because you’re waiting for the transaction to close as well.
So – and sometimes they can be 24 million and the next one 7 million so you know obviously for our investment portfolio the sooner the better because we have the cash and we like the – so we’ve got to do 75 million in the second quarter and you know if – 25 in the – 75 in the last quarter and 25 in the next quarter.
Of course we don’t want to do 25 but you get the point that you know we’re on all cylinders but we’re not going – no matter what we do here we’re not going to move our underwriting standards and so we’re being very particular.
Okay.
And your loan yield with fees would indicate maybe an average loan coupon of something in the 6.5 range.
Have you guys seen you know has the volumes picked up?  We’re seeing spreads tighten you know in all the sort of institutional qualities like the CMBS and insurance company loans.
Are you seeing any pricing pressure in your segment of the market? CEO</strong> You know I would say that if you want to remain as conservative as we are and really be underwriting what we think is institutional level properties things that we actually like you’re going to see some tightening.
At the same point the returns given our leverage ratios on our line and where we borrow you know are in the 15 16% range typically.
So the – in terms of the loans that we’ve seen the 50 million per quarter maybe over the next two quarters what would you estimate the range of coupons on that 100 million might be? CEO</strong>  Well I would still probably say right around what we’ve been underwriting but I would say we underwrote a lot of multi-families during the last six months nine months.
Now we’re seeing an opportunity to do other asset classes so it may be the same but you know not in what we consider to be the safest of all classes.
Okay.
And then the final question I have Jonathan there’s been a couple of announcements two or three in the last couple of weeks about these permanent financings.
A couple of people call them CLOs one person called theirs a CMBS.
I guess that’s just a fine point in structure but could you comment maybe as to you know beyond the obvious non-recourse permanent financing aspect of that do you see actually a funding cost advantage versus your Wells Fargo line and do you think it’s possible that you’ll actually enhance your ROE on the equity if you can put in one of those structures? CEO</strong>  Yeah I mean I think you’re right Steve that you know at some point depending on how much you want to borrow you’re going to find an advantage to go to the [inaudible] market.
It’s not there yet at the same leverage ratio we can borrow from Wells Fargo on the line but the permanent aspect of it is very attractive and we’re seeing those spreads on the Triple-A and the – even coming down to the Double-A on new-issue [inaudible] CRE-CDO-looking structures being very comparable to where we’re borrowing.
All that being said there haven’t been very many [inaudible] different you know it’s hard to tell what’s in each deal so you know when we prepare ourselves which we will be preparing in the next three to six months to do something more permanently you know we’re very hopeful that rates will be even lower and this will be a very accretive transaction for us.
It seems like you got the flexibility with the availability on the Wells line and your other liquidity to kind of let that market evolve and you know you only get one shot at locking up your loan collaterals so maybe this opportunity to just kind of watch that market tighten up… CEO</strong>  Yeah we’re going to watch but it definitely is coming and I think it’s coming our way.
Okay very good.
Thank you for the comments.
CEO</strong>  Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Zachary Tanenbaum at MLV.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
CEO</strong>  Good morning Zach.
I just wanted to ask and I think I might have missed some of this earlier.
The 9.8 million gain on investment securities trading in the quarter can you give us the breakout of what was in that?  And I think Dave Bryant you walked through some math around some expenses associated with it so can you just maybe just give a little more color on that? CEO</strong>  Sure.
Dave Bryant can do that.
Okay Jon.
So of the 9.8 million Zach the breakdown that I gave was that 6.2 million of that had been realized.
So we actually sold and monetized some of those significant gains in the portfolio.
The expenses associated with the 6.2 million of realized gains were income taxes and other expenses of – combined of about 3.7 million so the net was about 2.5.
And the point I was making is that when you take out the 2.5 from adjusted FFO we’re still at $0.23 a share.
So of the balance of the 9.8 million the other 3.6 was marks won in that trading portfolio which of course are going through the income statement and won securities that we continue to hold.
Got it.
And those realized gains were on some CLO debt that you had bought?  Is that right? CEO</strong>  Yeah we had made an concerted effort I mentioned it Zach in the end of my comments of buying distressed subordinate CLOs you know starting really in the early 2010 period and we really just made a tremendous amount of money the market was red hot and we – even though we could have kept earning on them we determined to sell them and realize the gains and so you’ll see that our investment trading securities which is where those fall have fallen from 44 to about 25 million probably going to be a little bit flat for a little bit as we find new opportunities.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
That’s helpful.
CEO</strong>  Thank you.
Sir you have no further questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
We have no further questions sir.
CEO</strong>  All right.
I want to thank everybody for listening and those of you who read the transcript I want to thank you for your support.
We’re available for any questions from anybody so let us know.
Have a good day.
Thank you very much.
I would like to apologize sincerely for the technical difficulties at my end and once again thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter Four Fiscal Year Ended 2012 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kathy and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
conference call for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2012.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to be taken as forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Form 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1-A on the Form 10-K report under the tile Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I'll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO was $0.22 for the three months and $0.97 per share diluted for the year ended December 31 2012.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per common share for the three months and $0.80 per share for the year ended December 31 2012.
Our book value to common share shareholders increased to $5.61 per share at December 31 2012 as compared to $5.48 at December 31 2011.
Our GAAP net income for the three months and year ended December 31 2012 was $14.1 million of $0.14 per share diluted and $63.2 million or $0.71 per share diluted respectively as compared to $400 000 or $0.01 per share diluted at $37.7 million or $0.53 per share diluted for the three months and year ended December 31 2011 respectively.
With those highlights out of the way I will not introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate.
We also have David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
In my opinion 2012 was a great year at Resource Capital Corp.
We accomplished a lot both financially and operationally.
We increased the size and diversification of the company to obtain a sizable dividend.
We expanded our liquidity sources to improve preferred stock and various debt facilities while still maintaining extremely low leverage in my opinion.
We increased our commercial real estate originations to over $63 million in the fourth quarter while adhering to the under-writing standards and quality standard that we have established here as our bedrock.
We increased book value to $5.61 from $5.48 while paying a dividend rate of over 14% of book value.
As a manager and significant shareholder I myself am very pleased with these accomplishments and I hope you are as well.
We believe we have a lot of work cut out for us in 2013.
We will focus on increasing originations in our commercial real estate business adding new commercial finance investments where we can achieve yields and total return in doing so while maintaining the credit discipline that has served us well.
We will also continue to look for good real estate investment and to capitalize in those investments we have already made such as our investment in LEAF Commercial Capital the leasing concern.
As additional opportunities to make similar investments come our way we will pursue those that can help us build long-term book value.
We will keep seeking flexible and accretive sources of financing and we will continue to utilize debt and equity capital in a disciplined manner.
Our credit quality is stable and improving and other than the legacy loans we have sold in our syndicated bank loan facility we feel like the credit environment for us is excellent.
We took a modest provision on real estate loans in fourth quarter of $400 000.
However all 43 of our outstanding real estate loans are performing and we see a trend of improving property performance underlying these loans beginning in 2011 through the year-end 2012 and continuing into 2013.
That is our real estate loss is shrinking.
The balance of the provision increase of $8.6 million came in our bank loan portfolio our syndicated bank loan portfolio.
Of that increase $3.8 million relates to sales of loans with previous credit concerns that primarily settled after year-end.
We increased reserves on one previously impaired position by $1.1 million during the quarter.
We also increased general reserves by $3.5 million on the general pool of syndicated bank loans and most of that increase or $2.7 million relates to a newly purchased not originated CLO where there was some legacy credit issues that we inherited upon acquisition.
However with respect to the bank loan portfolio credit is actually very benign when you consider that we only have four delinquent loans out of many many hundred loans.
Total $4.5 million on a pool of over $1.25 billion a very manageable 35 basis points.
We have removed most of the [poor] bank loan credit and expect continued strong performance and a very nice return on equity from this portfolio in 2013.
With our credit quality being fairly good we have kept our debt levels relatively low and opportunities to expand the franchise and the company remain ever present.
Our liquidity remains excellent.
We had approximately $180 million of cash including $94 million of unrestricted cash as of December 31 even after making considerable investment during the quarter.
Stay tuned for more investments.
Our portfolio of real estate loans continued to perform well.
During 2012 we have grown our real estate loan portfolio by over $175 million.
We expect this trend to continue as Dave Bloom and his real estate team continue to find out good opportunities from that money against good real estate.
We have generally strived to grow our origination channel and we believe that the investments we have made in our team and system will start to pay off or have started to pay off and will continue to start to pay off.
While our portfolio increased by only $23 million for the quarter due to repayment from three loans that repaid at the end of the quarter for $35 million which were all originated at the beginning of the recovery in the real estate origination markets the portfolio increased by $77 million on a net basis for the year.
We are picking of pace and expect this portfolio to grow tremendously in the next few quarters.
Dave Bloom will elaborate on this and the real estate portfolio momentarily.
Our leasing joint venture continues to grow and improve its portfolio.
We continue to be excited about its prospects.
We also continue to explore additional opportunities to diversify and invest capital to provide current return and long-term growth and good risk management.
The growth in our business has been exciting.
As compared to the quarter ending December 31 2011 this quarter we recorded revenue to $33 million versus $25 million a year ago a tremendous achievement given the steadfastness of our debt to equity level.
In addition the revenue growth came from both real estate loan segment as well as the syndicated bank loans side of the business.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activity.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp's commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $908 million in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 43 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $683 million.
The underlying collateral base continues to be in geographically diverse markets spread across the major asset categories with a portfolio breakdown of 29% multi-family 17% office 23% hotel 19% retail and 12% other such as research and development and mixed use.
The portfolio is in components as follows 86% whole loans 12% mezzanine loans and 2% B-notes.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 through today RSO closed seven new loans totaling $78.2 million with four more loans in process totaling another $105 million.
Currently RSO has issued applications on five new loans totaling approximately $108 million is in negotiations on an additional $198 million with new lending opportunities and is actively underwriting additional loans totaling approximately $500 billion.
While we see many lending opportunities we remain keenly aware of credit value and deal structure.
And although we are lending on lightly transitional properties we continue to focus on loans with day one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
New loans being financed on RSO is $150 million term financing facility with Wells Fargo Bank.
And we are in the late stages of discussions with Wells Fargo to upsize and extend this term financing facility.
The Wells Fargo term facility is specifically designed to fund our long-established bridge lending business.
Targeted returns on new loans utilizing the Wells Fargo facility are between 13% and 18% which will increased the return on equity and overall profitability of RSO's direct origination platform.
In addition we are actively planning long-term securitized financing options to more efficiently fully match fund our commercial mortgage portfolio.
We are pleased to see that the majority of the access specific business plans across the portfolio are on track and progressing towards the realization of the borrowers plans for value creation.
We are now improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of properties securing our loans realizing improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and continuing to trend in an upward direction.
Sales and financing activity continues to increase as the commercial real estate recovery takes hold in additional markets.
CMBS lenders banks insurance companies and well established portfolio lenders such as RSO are all seeing increased lending opportunities.
While keeping an extreme focus on credit quality we anticipate year-over-year loan production growth and an overall increase in the size of our loan portfolio.
RSO benefits from our focus and expertise in directly originating floating rate bridge loans and other structured finance solutions for borrowers on a nationwide basis.
Even though there are a number of capital sources in the market to net new loans our platform's reputation is well established with the same senior (inaudible) remaining intact since inception.
With certainty of execution at a premium the fact that our professionals and process are well know to borrowers intermediaries and other market participants provides us with a distinct advantage.
We are actively underwriting between $250 million and $500 million of transactions at any given time and are confident in our ability to continue to grow new loan originations in an impactful manner.
We remain optimistic about meeting prior peak production levels of approximately $500 million to $600 million of new loans per year and ultimately surpassing these numbers as we continued to grow our national origination platform and add new loan programs to our product offerings.
As john mentioned the credit across the portfolio continues to trend in a positive direction with improving metrics all asset classes.
We look forwards to setting new loans origination while maintaining the credit quality structure of pricing and diversity of our current portfolio while continuing to grow our loan platform and expand our product offering.
In other commercial real estate activities RSO's CMBS portfolio is now approximately $225 million in the aggregate.
We continue to utilize our CMBS credit facility as well as the CMBS repurchase facility to buy highly rated CMBS funds and deploy meaningful amounts of capital into AAA investments with healthy risk adjusted returns.
In addition to our whole loan origination and CMBS bond activities we continue to take advantage of opportunities to own properties.
RSO has converted whole loans on a well-located four diamond hotel and spa to an equity position as well as multi-family properties in a portfolio that now consists of three properties totaling 1 154 units.
And an additional 30 000 square foot office building all of which continued to surpass budget expectations.
RSO's venture with an institutional partner that owns a portfolio of non-performing loans and distressed multi-family properties that have significant realizations now consists of just seven assets and currently represents a total investment of approximately $60 million.
RSO participates in up to 25% of the profits as these investments are realized and has booked gains from the resolution in many of the ventures assets.
RSO will continue to expand its debt platform and to invest in both value-add and distressed real estate transactions that provide opportunities for significant value creation and capital appreciation.
With that I will turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I will also review our syndicated bank loans portfolio.
Resource Capital syndicated bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1.3 billion at amortized cost.
Overall I believe that our portfolio remains in excellent conditions and little has changed since last quarter.
As of December 31 2012 we have specific reserves of $3.2 million and general reserves of $6.5 million as compared with specific reserves of $2.1 million and general reserves of $3.0 million for the third quarter.
We continue to forecast a very very benign outlook in corporate credit for the next year or two.
The default rate for the last 12-months was 0.38%.
This has been a terrific business line for Resource Capital and we will continue to allocate capital to it.
In addition to our portfolio of syndicated bank loans we also collect management fees from our acquisition of the right to manage five other CLOs.
During the year ended December 31 2012 we received $7 million in fees.
This has turned out to be a very good transaction at this point.
Now I will ask David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s Board declared a cash dividend for the fourth quarter and full-year of $0.20 and $0.80 per common share or approximately $21 million and $75.1 million in the aggregate respectively.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the fourth quarter and year was $22.3 million and $86.2 million or $0.22 and $0.97 per common share diluted respectively.
AFFO for the year was impacted by several non-cash adjustments netting to $15.9 million.
Also REIT tax planning adjustments of $6.8 million and to a lesser extent net cash outlays of approximately $750 000.
This represents an AFFO payout ratio of approximately 82.4% for the year and demonstrates our ability to cover the dividend from operating cash flow.
During the period we took steps to ensure compliance with the 75% REIT gross income test.
First we reduced our non-qualifying net income from bank loans by making a temporary election to treat two CLOs as taxable for the period of November '12 ending on December 31 2012.
Second we further reduced our non-qualifying income by selling two credit impaired positions that were trading below our tax basis.
We expect to cover the gross income test in 2013 with significant growth in gross income from real estate owned as well as from growth in our real estate loan portfolio and do not consider these fourth quarter tax planning items to be part of our normal operations.
We passed all the critical interest coverage and over-collateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and five bank loan CLOs through December 2012.
Each of these structured financings performed well and continues to generate stable and even improving cash flow to us in 2012 and continuing into 2013.
The CRE CDOs produced over $28.3 million and bank loan CLOs generated $33.6 million of cash flow during the year-end in 2012.
This compares very favorably to the same period in 2011 and we generated $22.4 million and $27.6 million from CRE and bank loans respectively.
This cash flow improvement reflects a better credit environment as well as our ability to invest recycled capital.
As of December 31 we had an excess of $90 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of approximately $89.3 million and $800 000 in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances $29.1 million is available for reinvestment in two of our CLOs which we expect to provide very attractive spreads over the cost of the associated debt which is a very inexpensive rate of 1.49%.
The real estate restricted cash balances are now designated to repay the senior notes on the two real estate CDOs as the reinvestment period on those CDOs has ended.
I would point out that we own a meaningful amount of these senior notes so as the underlying real estate loan collateral pays off principal will be returned to us and become unrestricted cash available for the investment.
Of the fourth quarter provision for loan losses of approximately $9 million $8.6 million is related to bank loans and $400 000 is for real estate loans.
Regarding our bank loans portfolio we increased reserves for positions sold for credit and tax reasons and also increased our general reserves primarily related to a CLO acquisition in the quarter as mentioned by Jonathan.
On our real estate loans we added to reserves for a previously impaired whole loan and to cover legal costs for loans held of sale which had settled in January.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and other then two loans sold as part of our tax planning and a few legacy credit issues related to a CLO acquisition during the fourth quarter credit in our bank loan portfolio is very stable.
Four bank loans totaling $4.5 million are delinquent out of a portfolio of $1.25 billion.
And notably all of our 43 real estate loans are current and performing.
Our leverage stands at a very modest 2.9 times at year-end 2012.
When we treat our [trups] issuances which have a remaining term of over 24 years as equity our leverage is 2.6 times.
Focusing on real estate leverage we ended the fourth quarter a very conservative one times levered on our entire real estate portfolio.
Our overall leverage continued to decrease from December 2011 primarily due to pay downs and run off of CLO debt and CRE CDO debt as well as equity raised through a common stock offering.
And new capital from our dividend reinvestment program.
We also saw improvements in mark-to-market indications within our available for sale securities portfolio and completed two preferred stock offerings.
We began selling preferred shares through an active market program in 2012 and sold a total of 538 000 shares at a weighted average price of $24.40 through this program for total proceeds of $12.9 million.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on these proceeds from both series of preferred stock is 8.64% an attractive cost of capital for RSO.
In terms of liquidity after paying the fourth quarter common and preferred stock dividends in January we have $99 million of unrestricted cash as of the end of February with several loan originations in process intended to put this cash to work.
We ended the December 2012 quarter with GAAP book value per share of $5.61 up from $5.48 at December 31 2011.
The $0.13 change resulted primarily from improved mark-to-market valuations on a combination of our available for sale portfolios and from the net proceeds generated by an accretive common stock offering.
At December 31 2012 our equity is allocated as follows: commercial real estate loans and CMBS 83% commercial finance 15% and 2% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I'd turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of [Gabe Poche FBR].
Jonathan you guys talked about really ramping origination in 2013 are there any numbers that you want to put around that from a net perspective whether you have any kind of an internal target per quarter.
Obviously there is closing nuances and there is timing gaps etcetera but is there kind of an internal RSO goal for what you would like to originate in 2013? And then piggy backing on that is there an amount of origination or a size that you would like to get to for new originations that then you could then securitize? Yeah.
I mean we are not so far off of -- first of all thanks for bringing up this securitization market because that is obviously a very important part of what can drive earnings and dividends here at Resource Capital.
And that market is becoming much more acceptable much cheaper and it enables us to really ramp our portfolio aggressively while maintaining great credit and being able to provide our borrowers with good loans.
As far as origination is concerned we did $53 million last quarter and we clearly think that origination on a sort of annual basis can get to the $350 million to $500 million range within a very short period on a runway basis.
We are ramping up our abilities our people and we are finding that we are in great transactions.
One of the reasons that we have been staying a little bit more liquid in terms of our balance sheet is because we are now starting to look at $20 million-$30 million-$40 million loans that we can take down just in cash selling A note or eventually sell the mezz piece and then securitize the A notes.
And having liquidity to do so I think is very important.
So the numbers themselves if in fact we hit on some of these bigger loans that could be $450 million to $500 million would be usually achievable.
If we stay with mostly in $10 million to $20 million I would put it at $350 million number.
Dave Bloom do you want to add anything to that.
Yeah I think that’s exactly right.
I mean we are certainly hitting on some of the larger loans but I think on a blended average you are right.
Thank you for questions sir.
You have no questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions) Are there any other questions? There are no more questions.
Well I wanted to thank everybody for joining the call.
I hope that you found the information that we gave which I know is extensive to be helpful.
We are available for any calls either Purvi Kamdar Dave Bryant and of course you can call anybody else including David Bloom and others or myself.
So please let us know if you have any questions and we look forward to a great 2013.
Thank you.
Thanks for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation you may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter One 2013 Resource Capital Corp Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sheena and I will be your operator today.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
And thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp conference call for the first quarter ended March 31 2013.
I’m Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports by the DSEC including its reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K reporting to the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO were $0.20 for the three months ended March 31 2013.
Book value to common shareholders was $5.60 per share at March 31 2013.
Total revenues increased by $1.9 million or 6.4% as compared to the three months ended March 31 2012.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per common share for the three months ended March 31 2013 and during that period we originated $61.4 million of new commercial real estate loans.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate Lending; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and of course Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
Probably the most significant developments for the quarter was the momentum we are seeing in commercial real estate loan originations.
We increased originations to over $61 million in the first quarter while we believe adhering to our solid underwriting and quality standards.
That momentum has certainly carried over to the second quarter where we expect to originate substantially more than the first quarter.
This growth in origination has been met by our ability to obtain new financing.
During the quarter we expanded our facility with Wells Fargo from $150 million facility to $250 million and are in conversations to obtain an additional line of credit from another major financial institution for $150 million to $200 million more.
The ability to finance our long-term originations combined with the nascent or reborn securitization markets for our products means that we can competitively originate high quality loans and hold them on our balance sheets.
The dynamics in my opinion are very conducive to our core business.
To augment the debt side of the balance sheet during the quarter we raised over $45 million of common and preferred equity capital.
After the quarter ended we did a public offering of $18.7 million shares of common stock and received net proceeds of $114.5 million.
We are growing into a stronger company.
In my opinion we are becoming a greater force to be recognized in the commercial mortgage market for transitional loans.
Proof of this is the $44 million loan we originated in March.
Dave Bloom our head of Real Estate will review this with you when he speaks.
We also decided to sell down another legacy loan for $34 million and reinvest those proceeds into new more dynamic loans.
This decision although it shrunk our net production demonstrates our continued focus and dedication to asset quality and real estate fundamentals.
Our business has indeed become simpler.
We are focusing on increasing originations in our commercial real estate business adding new commercial finance investments where we can achieve yield and total returns and doing so while maintaining our emphasis on credit quality that has served us so well.
We will also continue to evaluate different investments.
As opportunities to make such investments come our way we will pursue those that can help us build long-term book value.
We will keep seeking flexible and accretive sources of financing and will continue to utilize debt and equity capital in a disciplined manner.
Our credit quality is stable and improving.
Our real estate watch list is shrinking.
The balance of the provision increase of $1 million this quarter came from one previously impaired position by $1.3 million during the quarter.
Bank loans reduced provisions by $219 000 during the quarter and with respect to the syndicated bank loan portfolio credit is actually very benign when you consider that we have only four delinquent loans out of many many hundreds totaling $3.9 million on a pool of over $1.1 billion a very manageable 35 basis points.
We have removed most of the poor bank loan credit as evidenced by the reduction of the provisions this period and expect continued strong performance and a very nice return on equity from this portfolio in 2013.
We again thank Gretchen Bergstresser.
With our credit quality being good we have kept our debt levels relatively low and opportunities to expand the franchise and build out existing and new platforms remain ever present.
Our liquidity remains excellent.
We had approximately $162 million of unrestricted cash as of April 30 which includes the proceeds from our most recent common stock offering even after making considerable investments during the last four months.
We expect to be fully invested within the next four to six months.
Our portfolio of real estate loans continue to perform well.
During the last 12 months we have grown our real estate loan portfolio by over $223 million on a gross origination basis.
We expect this trend to continue as our real estate debt team continues to find good opportunities to lend money against good real estate.
We have greatly strived to grow our origination channel and we believe the investments we have made in our team and systems will start to pay off.
While our portfolio decreased by $17 million for the quarter due to repayments from three loans that repaid during the quarter for $44.8 million of which one was originated in 2007 and two were originated at the beginning of the recovery in the real estate origination markets.
The portfolio nonetheless increased by $44 million on a net basis over the last year.
We are picking up pace and expect this portfolio to grow tremendously in the next few quarters.
Our leasing joint venture continues to grow and we remain excited about its prospects.
We also continue to explore additional opportunities to diversify and invest capital to provide current return long-term growth and good risk management.
LEAF our leasing venture achieved profitability in the month of March and we anticipate that trend to continue in future periods.
The growth in our business has been exciting.
As compared to the quarter ending March 31 2012 this quarter we recorded revenues of $30.6 million versus $28.7 million a year ago a tremendous achievement given the steadfastness of our debt-to-equity levels.
In addition the revenue growth came from both the real estate segment as well as the syndicated loans side of the business.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current committed balance of approximately $1.032 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 56 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $732 million.
The underlying collateral base continues to be geographically diverse spread across the major asset categories with a portfolio breakdown of 24% multifamily 12% office 23% hotel 28% retail and 13% other such as research and development and mixed use.
The portfolio is in components as follows: 84% whole loans 14% mezzanine loans and 2% B-notes.
During the first quarter of 2013 through today RSO closed six new loans totaling $88.8 million with eight more loans in process totaling another $80 million.
Currently RSO has issued applications on four new loans totaling approximately $53 million is in negotiations on an additional $107 million of new lending opportunities and is actively underwriting additional loans totaling approximately $300 million.
We note improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of the properties securing our loans realizing improved cash flow year-over-year and continuing to trend in an upward direction.
In addition we are pleased to see that the majority of the asset-specific business plans across the portfolio are well on track and progressing towards the realization of borrowers’ plans for value creation and the entire portfolio remains performing with no defaults.
While we see many lending opportunities we remain keenly aware of credit value and deal structure.
And although we are lending on lightly transitional properties we continue to focus on business plans that stand up to rigorous underwriting and verification and on loans with Day One cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
As Jonathan mentioned RSO increased and extended our existing $150 million term financing facility with Wells Fargo bank.
So now the facility’s $250 million with a revolving period that goes through 2015 and extension options that carry the facility comfortably into 2017.
New whole loans are being financed on RSOs term financing facility with Wells Fargo and we are in the process of documenting an additional $150 million to $200 million term financing facility with another major financial institution.
RSO’s term financing facilities are specifically designed to fund our long-established bridge lending business with targeted returns on new loans utilizing these facilities between 13% and 18%.
Ultimately the loans that are being financed on the facilities are being aggregated as we again made plans to access the securitized financing markets in optimally match fund our assets which will increase the return on equity and overall profitability of RSOs real estate direct origination platform while at the same time managing recourse financing exposure.
RSO benefits from our focus and expertise in directly originating floating rate bridge loans and other structured finance solutions for borrowers on a nationwide basis.
Even though there are a number of capital sources in the market to make new loans our platform’s reputation is well established with the same senior team remaining intact since inception.
With certainty of execution at a premium the fact that our professionals and process are well known to borrowers intermediaries and other market participants provides us with a distinct advantage over many other lenders.
We’re actively underwriting between $250 million and $500 million of transactions at any given time and are confident in our ability to continue to grow new loan origination in a meaningful way.
We remain optimistic about meeting prior peak production levels of approximately $500 to $600 million of new loans per year and ultimately surpassing these numbers as we continue to grow our well-established national origination platform and add new loan programs to our product offerings.
While not a new program RSO will continue to drive high-quality loan production by utilizing our strong balance sheet combined with our extensive capital market experience to continue to provide customized financing solutions to our borrowers to seek loans larger than we typically hold in portfolio.
The ability to originate and principle larger loans provides RSO with access to the high-yield mezzanine loan space on a self-originated basis while still retaining control over structure and placing of the transaction as well as the direct relationship with the borrower.
All hallmarks of our direct origination platform.
As Jon mentioned in the first quarter of 2013 we closed a $44 million loan secured by well-located shopping center and plan to sell the A-note to a strategic partner while retaining a $13 million controlling mezzanine loan at premium spread to that which would be available had we purchased it rather than originated the position.
We are actively underwriting and quoting other transactions similar to this one and anticipate growing this aspect of our Lending business.
We look forward to steady new loan origination while maintaining the credit quality structure pricing and diversity of our current portfolio and continuing to grow our loan platform and expand product offerings.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Now I will.
Thanks Dave.
Now I will quickly review our syndicated bank loan portfolio.
Resource Capital syndicated bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1.2 billion at amortized costs.
Overall our portfolios remain in excellent condition.
As of March 31 2013 we had specific reserves of $2.6 million and general reserves of $5.2 million as compared to specific reserves of $3.2 million and general reserves of $6.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2012.
We continue to forecast a good outlook in corporate credit in the future.
The default rate for the last 12 months was 0.18% 18 basis points.
This has been a great business line for Resource Capital and we will continue to allocate capital to the corporate credit world.
In addition to our portfolio of syndicated bank loans we also collect management fees from our acquisition of the right to manage five other CLOs.
During the last three months we received $1.4 million in fees.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSOs board declared a cash dividend for the first quarter of $0.20 per common share or approximately $21.6 million.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the first quarter was $21 million or $0.20 per share per common diluted respectively.
AFFO for the period was impacted by several noncash adjustments netting to $5.6 million and to a less extent net cash inflows of approximately $3.1 million.
We passed all of the critical interest coverage and over collateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and five bank loan CLOs as of March 2013.
Each of these financing structures performed well and continue to generate stable and even improving cash flow to us in 2013.
The commercial real estate CDOs produced approximately $22 million including a return of principle of $16 million on our ownership of the RREF 2006 senior note class.
Bank loan CLOs generated approximately $9 million of cash flow during the three months ended March 2013.
These amounts compare favorably to the same period in 2012 when they generated $6.3 million and $6.7 million from real estate and bank loans respectively.
This cash flow improvement reflects a better credit environment as well as our ability to invest recycled capital.
As of March 31 we have in excess of $107.6 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of approximately $107 million and $729 000 in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances $35.7 million is available for reinvestment and two of our CLOs which we expect to provide attractive spreads over the cost of the associated debt which is a very inexpensive weighted average rate of 1.46%.
The balance is primarily being used to pay down notes outstanding and de-leverage our balance sheet.
All of the real estate principal cash balances are designated to repay the senior notes when the two real estate CEOs as the reinvestment period on those have expired.
I reiterate that we own a meaningful amount of those senior notes so that as the underlying real estate loan collateral pays off principal is returned to us and becomes unrestricted cash available for reinvestment as is the case with the 16 million return to us this period.
Of the Q1 provisions for loan losses of approximately $1 million $1.2 million is for real estate loans and there was a reduction of $219 000 for bank loans.
Regarding our bank loan portfolio we decreased reserves on our portfolio reflecting improved credit conditions on our general portfolio offset a bit by increased reserves for a few positions sold for credit reasons.
On our real estate loans we added $1.2 million in reserves for our previously impaired whole loan.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and as John mentioned it continued to reduce our exposure to a legacy portfolio which is evidenced by a reduction of 19% from the March 2012 period.
I characterize that our bank loan portfolio credit as very benign and improving.
A mere four bank loans with an amortized cost of $3.9 million are delinquent out of the $1.2 billion portfolio and notably all of our real estate loans are current and performing.
Our leverage stands at a very modest 2.5 times at March 31.
When we treat our Trups issuances which have a remaining term of over 23 years as equity our leverage is 2.3 times.
Focusing on real estate leverage we ended Q1 a very conservative 1 times lever on our entire real estate portfolio which is a reflection of our de-leveraging and pay down of those CDO notes I previously mentioned.
Our overall leverage continue to decrease from December 31 primarily due to pay downs and run off of the CLO debt the real estate CDO debt as well as from equity raised from our common stock dividend reinvestment program.
We also continue to sell preferred shares through an at-the-market program established last year and sold 1.1 million shares at a weighted average price of $24.82 through this program in Q1 2013 for proceeds of $26.9 million at a weighted average of 8.44%.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds of both series of preferred stock is 8.5% an attractive cost of capital for RSO.
In terms of liquidity after taking into account the receipt of $114.5 million of net proceeds from our follow on common stock offering and after paying the first quarter common and preferred stock dividends in late April we have $162 million of unrestricted cash as of April 30 2013 with several real estate loan originations in process intended to put this cash to work.
We ended the March 2013 quarter with GAAP book value per share of $5.60 down slightly from $5.61 at December 2012.
At March 2013 our equity is allocated as follows: Commercial Real Estate Loans and CMBS 75% Commercial Finance 15% and Other Investments 10%.
With that my formal comments are completed and I turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave.
And with that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is from Steve DeLaney JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Steve.
Jonathan congratulations on a solid quarter.
It’s pretty obviously just looking at the trend back two or three quarters that the quality of earnings is improving in terms of the recurring nature and it’s encouraging to see that progress especially the loan loss provision of only $1 million.
Thank you.
That was great to see.
So a couple things.
I guess the new – really appreciate the press release on these large originations.
That’s helpful for modeling and just to keep the story going.
But I like the idea of the structure where you’re going to sell of an A-note and hold the mezz.
The press release didn’t talk about loan coupon.
But could you comment maybe just on a general range of which you would expect your once the loan is structured and the A-note is sold on your retained mezz piece what type of target yield would you be looking for there? Well we don’t like to talk about loan coupons just because it doesn’t help our business for everybody to know exactly what one guy got on one property.
But just in general depending on the quality of the property our loan coupons can range anywhere from 5.75% to 8.5% depending on the quality of the property.
Then this is on the whole loan.
And you can think to yourself that we’re borrowing somewhere between 65% and 75% on an A-note or 60% to 70% depending on if it’s a sold A-note or whether we borrowed on our line.
And we borrow at 2% and change from the banks.
And we think that in the securitization market that goes down to 1% and change.
And so that’s the rough math.
Okay.
We can back into that.
Yeah.
And just generally you should know that we look at it on a levered return whether it’s a mezz piece or mezz piece or a whole loan that we lever.
We look at that as somewhere between a mid-teens 13 14 and up to 20% return with all the fees involved over a two-year holding period.
Okay.
Within switching over to the plan to eventually do a CLO within your loan portfolio obviously you’ve got $1 billion but a lot of that is the legacy stuff.
I’m focused on the $223 million of originations in the last 12 months.
I don’t know if any of that is those near-term originations have repaid.
But can you estimate what you have under your bank lines? In other words what collateral do you have earmarked for a potential structuring with the CLO? And what would be the minimum size of a collateral pool before you would find it efficient to pull the trigger? Well I think that it’s hard to estimate.
Right now as I said in my comments and I think Dave echoed in his comments we did 60 $60-some odd million last quarter.
We’re looking at a much greater number this quarter and a much greater number the quarter after that.
So with that happening a lot of the prepayments as I said came from legacy loan.
Yes.
So we sold a legacy loan we had a legacy loan prepay and then – which is always nice because they have pretty nice exit fees as well and we like to move the portfolio to a newer portfolio.
And then two loans that were originated very close to the start of the real estate lending market in 2009 2010.
So we often have a lot of prepayment or no prepayment clauses in the loans we originated over the last 18 months let’s say.
So I would say we probably need a portfolio to start marketing over $125 million or so and we’ll go to work somewhere around $150 million to $200 million range on the line.
And we ended the last quarter probably with $65 million to $75 million up to $93 million I think by now.
And what Jon is saying there Steve is $93 million is the total loans on that facility.
[64] [ph] borrowing is the outstanding fees.
So we’re going to get that ramped up.
We’re putting loans in April and in May and we hope to access that market accordingly.
Now the difference really is is that it frees up our lines.
We don’t really need to free up our lines because we have a decent amount.
We’ve expanded our relationship with Wells which we’re grateful for and we also have – we’re close to a new line that we’re going to sign with another major financial institution.
But it will help with the borrowing the rate and so we’re excited for that as well.
Well it certainly sounds like you’ve got enough funding capacity that you can approach the CLO market where you don’t necessarily just have to be a price taker you can be...
All of the prices are starting to feel – the prices on the AAAs are starting to feel pretty good.
So we may be a price taker.
But I just want to add that you can see by the fact that we’re opening up another facility and expanding Wells our take on our business where it’s going and what we need to accomplish then over the next 12 months.
With respect to the origination volume outlook? Yes exactly.
And just one final thing and I’ll drop off.
I noticed no gain on debt extinguishment this quarter after obviously a big item in fourth quarter of $11 million.
Would you say that in terms of projecting and expectations would you say that trade where we are now with spreads tightening and everything is that trade about done and we should just focus on...
No I mean the trade’s not done but as we look to refinance some of those older CDOs as they get down in terms of size I think there will be a discount that we can refinance in that but we’ll only probably be looking to do that upon refinancing not as an opportunistic buy.
So for example let’s say that the AAAs are at 94 95 or 96 we’ll say that the AAs are at 92 or 93 that’s not really that interesting to us.
Right.
But if we knew that we were going to refinance and pay off all the bonds we might try to get as much of that as we could a month before we knew we were refinancing it.
When you say refinance you mean like a clean up call of something? Yeah we’d clean it up and put the collateral either on our line or into a new CLO.
Okay.
Well listen thanks for the time and the comments.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Matthew Stolzar Pyrrho Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
You spoke about accessing the securitization market and potential sizing but I was wondering from a timing perspective what you guys are thinking and just the general trend you’ve been seeing over the past few months.
Thanks for the question.
There really hasn’t been that many deals because everybody is re-up – deals that needed to get done or people were willing to be price takers as Steve just said got done in different structures.
Now people are really ramping the next group of originations.
And there are probably three or four of us that are doing that.
And I would expect to see more deals in the next three to six months.
But as far as any color on it maybe Dave you have some? I mean there’s – the deals that were done early were permeations of old CDOs.
The deals that are coming around where I mean we’re starting to see the features that as prudent managers in the past that we should have the opportunity to get in the future which is a ramp facility an active reinvestment period.
And as those as we start seeing those more and more in the market and our collateral remains of this quality that’s really what we plan to go out with.
But as Jon said there’s been a very limited universe a bunch of small deals but we would be I think one of the larger deals looking for the types of structures that we had in the past.
Got it.
And the way to think about timing I guess is your – you had said in the previous question you’re at 93 millionish of collateral that could go into a CDO.
And you would look – you think it’d probably have to be 125 to 150 range.
When I was talking it Matthew I was talking about how much debt would be issued not total collateral.
I think total collateral – you’d like to have $200 million and have a 125 bar in your line.
It doesn’t – we’re starting to market these things.
But to get seriously involved and start to think about really what the market looks like and spend two months working on it I think that that’s the level we want to be at and it’s coming very soon.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thanks.
Thank you for your question.
We have no further questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions).
We have no further questions.
Therefore I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen for closing remarks.
Well we thank you for your support and we look forward to continuing to hear from you on a regular basis.
So thank you.
Thank you sir.
Thank you for joining today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Please have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2013 Resource Capital Corp Earnings Call.
My name’s Jo and I’ll be your Operator for today.
(Operator instructions.) As a reminder the call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp Earnings Conference Call for Q2 ended June 30 2013.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words “believes ” “anticipates ” “expects ” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Form 8(k) 10(q) and 10(k) and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10(k) report under the title “Risk Factors.” Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations were $0.16 for the three months ended June 30 2013.
Booked value to common shareholders was $5.55 per share at June 30 2013.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per common share for the three months ended June 30 2013.
We originated during the quarter $91 million of new commercial real estate loans an increase of nearly 50% over the past quarter – and as you’ll hear from Dave Bloom we expect this kind of trend to continue.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of real estate lending; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
While this quarter saw a lower adjusted funds from operations number than we expected it was related to three items: first dilution from the April offering of $115 million; second lower revenue from the deleveraging CLOs holding syndicated bank loans; and third the speed of payments of legacy loans on the commercial real estate side which was offset by the tremendous origination of $91 million of loans in the quarter.
Do not fear.
We are confident that we will earn in excess of the dividend in terms of AFFO for the second half of the year 2013.
Therefore we are guiding to a $0.40 dividend for the second half of 2013.
This confidence is driven by first our ability to originate commercial real estate loans at slightly higher rates and larger size than we had been; second our shifting away from CLO structures on the corporate credit side of the business to a more direct middle market approach of origination; third our focus on securitizing our commercial real estate portfolio in the near future which we believe will lower our debt cost and re-leverage our portfolio; fourth our signing of a $200 million Deutsche Bank facility to augment our $250 million facility with Wells Fargo; and fifth the continuation of the benign credit environment that we find ourselves in.
Once we invest the remaining capital which we think this will be completed in Q4 – sometime in October hopefully – we should be in good shape.
On the up side we have numerous investments which we made in low cash flowing or no cash flowing assets or businesses which we are in the process of harvesting over the next two to twelve months.
Two examples: first we made an investment in a value-add multi-family apartment building almost two years ago with a current basis of approximately $20 million that we believe we will sell at a price nearing $36 million by the end of Q3.
Second we are continuing to build our equipment leasing joint ventures with Eos Partners.
It has turned profitable and continues to build its business and profitability.
We have approximately $40 million on our books invested in the participating preferred security and we believe with some good fortune that this will be worth significantly more than this number.
Stay tuned.
Not only will these investments build book value but they will also allow us to have access to more cash for more book building or dividend growing activities.
One of the most significant developments for the quarter is momentum in commercial real estate loan origination.
We increased originations to over $91 million in Q2 which reflect almost a 50% increase from Q1.
We expect this to continue to grow on an annual basis.
We also believe that repayments of existing loans will slow down as rates have risen in the CMBS.
This will help us build a larger portfolio faster.
While we always continue to maintain careful focus on credit quality we’ve escalated our loan originations and are seeing a robust pipeline with lots of opportunities for Resource Capital Corp.
David Bloom will comment on this during his presentation here.
Our ability to increase originations is bolstered by our ability to obtain new financing.
In Q1 we expanded our facility with Wells Fargo from $150 million to $250 million and during this quarter we put in place a $200 million facility with Deutsche Bank.
These lines dramatically expand our capacity to deploy our equity capital into an increasing loan pool.
As the securitization market in commercial real estate is returning we expect to take advantage of that as soon as later this year.
This gives us the ability to competitively originate high-quality loans and hold them on our balance sheet.
We remain focused on our balance sheet and have done an excellent job at deleveraging the company.
Because of loan payoffs in the more recent past and our ability to buy back our debt at a substantial discount in previous years we believe that we are actually slightly underleveraged at this time.
Utilizing both our DB and Wells lines we will be able to add some more leverage slowly but surely but of course without overdoing it.
In the beginning of this quarter we raised a significant amount of new capital in April.
As we fully deploy our capital modestly increase leverage and as some of our lower coupon legacy loans repay we believe overall returns will increase.
Our leveraged loan business continues to perform very well and we are actively exploring ways of continuing to benefit from the strong CLO market and our expertise in it with a world-class team.
Through our subsidiary Resource Capital Asset Management RSO earned almost $3 million in fees in the first six months of 2013.
We have shifted our focus to direct origination of middle market loans with low leverage.
As the CLOs roll down we expect to see a larger book of directly originated middle market loans.
Overall our business has become simpler.
We are focused on increasing originations in our commercial real estate business adding new commercial finance investments where we can achieve yield and total return and doing so while maintaining our emphasis on credit quality that has served us well.
We will also continue to evaluate different investments and new lines of business.
As opportunities to make such investments come our way we will pursue those that can help us build long-term book value.
We will keep seeking flexible and accretive sources of financing and we’ll continue to utilize debt and equity capital in a disciplined manner.
Our credit quality is stable and improving.
Our real estate watch list is shrinking.
Our provision for loan losses this quarter decreased our operating expenses by over $1.2 million.
We have removed most of the poor bank loan credit as evidenced by the strong reduction of the provisions this period and expect continued strong performance and a very nice return on equity from this portfolio in 2013.
With our credit quality being good we’ve kept our debt levels relatively low and opportunities to expand the franchise and build out existing and new platforms remain ever present.
Our liquidity remains excellent.
We had approximately $146 million of unrestricted cash as of July 31.
Expect this number to dwindle over the next few months.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $1.05 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolio comprises 57 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $852 million.
The current committed balance of the commercial mortgage portfolio has increased by $120 million since our last call on May 8<sup>th</sup> which takes into account $25 million of loan payoffs since that point.
The underlying collateral base continues to be in geographically diverse markets spread across the major asset categories with a portfolio breakdown of 33% multi-family 13% office 21% hotel 21% retail and 12% other such as mixed use and research and development.
The portfolio is in components as follows: 89% whole loans 9% mezzanine loans and 2% B notes.
During Q2 2013 through today RSO has closed nine new loans totaling $106 million with six more loans totaling another $108 million in process.
RSO currently has applications issued for seven more loans totaling approximately $152 million; it is in negotiations on an additional $310 million of new lending opportunities; and is actively underwriting a forward pipeline in excess of $300 million.
We have seen a steady increase in lending opportunities that fit our credit profile and are increasing loan production on a quarter-over-quarter basis with consistency.
The loans that we currently have in process combined with the number of applications issued and the loans in negotiation exceeds prior peak production levels of approximately $600 million a year.
We are pleased with the way that loan production is tracking and look forward to directly originated loan production continuing to increase on a quarterly and annual basis.
As Jonathan mentioned in addition to our $250 million term financing facility with Wells Fargo RSO now has an additional $200 million term financing facility with Deutsche Bank and has ample credit and term to support the demand for our well-established bridge loan program while we aggregate collateral and plan for our next structured term financing execution.
During this ramp period we are financing new loan production on our bank facilities and utilizing prudent leverage in achieving returns between 13% and 18%.
As I discussed on the last call RSO is continuing to use its strong balance sheet and capital market expertise to provide larger loans than we typically hold in portfolio.
With demand for lower leveraged senior loans very strong RSO’s ability to originate and fully principle larger loans is a compelling opportunity.
The sale of a senior loan to one of our bank trading partners provides RSO with access to the high-yield mezzanine loan space on a self-originated basis while still retaining control over the structure and pricing of the transaction as well as the direct relationship with the borrower.
We are actively underwriting and quoting larger transactions and anticipate growing this aspect of our lending business and adding new product offerings as we continue to scale our origination platform.
Credit across the portfolio continues to trend in a positive direction with improving metrics across all asset classes.
The majority of the properties securing our loans are continuing to realize improved cash flow and we are seeing borrowers’ plans for value creation on or ahead of budget.
Once again I am pleased to report that the entire portfolio is performing with no defaults.
As assets are recapitalized or sold and paid off the very few legacy positions that require extra asset management attention grows smaller each quarter and we remain extremely focused on the ultimate resolution of these situations.
These few remaining loans are seeing business plans executed at or above originally underwritten levels and we anticipate successful outcomes.
We are very particular about the markets in which we lend sponsor quality and asset-specific business plans and the resilience of the assets I just described are a daily reminder that validates our keen focus on the “credit first” approach to our business.
To briefly address other real estate activities RSO maintains a CMBS portfolio that is now approximately $202 million in the aggregate including our net securities linked borrowings.
We continued to utilize moderate leverage to finance our CMBS portfolio that provides the opportunity to invest in AAA investments and earn returns of approximately 15%.
In addition to our whole loan origination and CMBS bond activities we continue to take advantage of properties that we own.
RSO’s primary equity portfolio consist of five properties – three multi-family properties totaling 1154 units one 30 000 square foot office building and one hotel – all of which continue to perform well and are expected to be sold for gains as plans for value creation are realized.
RSO’s venture with an institutional partner that owns a portfolio of nonperforming loans and distressed multi-family properties had twenty properties representing an investment of approximately $160 million at its largest point.
There have been significant resolutions in the portfolio and RSO has booked gain through its 25% profit participation as the portfolio has been harvested.
As of the end of Q2 the joint venture’s portfolio was comprised of seven assets which represent a total current investment of approximately $57 million.
While continuing to expand its debt platform RSO will also pursue opportunities and invest in both value-add and distressed real estate transactions that provide opportunities for significant capital appreciation and the ability to build book value.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks Dave.
Now I will also review our corporate loan portfolio.
Resource Capital’s syndicated bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $1 billion of amortized costs.
Overall our portfolios remain in excellent condition.
As of June 30 2013 we have specific reserves of $3.4 million and general reserves of $936 000 as compared to specific reserves of $2.6 million and general reserves of $5.2 million for Q1 2013.
We continue to forecast a good outlook in corporate credit for the next couple of years.
The default rate for the last twelve months was 0.16%.
This has been a great business line for Resource Capital and we will continue to allocate capital to it.
In addition to our portfolio of syndicated bank loans we also collect management fees from our acquisition of the right to manage other CLOs of which during the quarter we earned fees of $1.5 million.
As I mentioned earlier we are also beginning to make some direct investments and directly originate those investments in middle market loans.
We’ve committed $8.1 million of capital into these loans so far through the end of July and hope to expand on that going forward.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our CFO to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s Board declared a cash dividend for Q2 of $0.20 per common share or approximately $25.4 million.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for Q2 was $19.6 million or $0.16 per common share diluted.
AFFO for Q2 was impacted by several non-cash adjustments netting to $11.2 million and to a lesser extent net cash inflows of approximately $1.3 million.
We plan to grow AFFO in the second half of 2013 as we deploy liquidity into our CRE loan origination pipeline and monetize unrealized gains on certain equity real estate investments held on our balance sheet.
We again passed all of the critical interest coverage and overcollateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and five bank loan CLOs as of June 2013.
Each of these financing structures continued to perform well and to generate stable and even improving cash flow to us in 2013.
The real estate CDOs produced approximately $28 million including a return of principle of $16.5 million with our ownership of the RREF 2006 senior note class which we again intend to reinvest in new loan originations.
Bank loan CLOs generated approximately $16.6 million of cash flow for the six months ended June 30.
These amounts compare favorably to the same period in 2012 when they generated $13.4 million and $14.7 million from real estate and bank loans respectively.
This cash flow improvement reflects a benign credit environment as well as our ability to invest recycled capital.
As of June 30<sup>th</sup> we have in excess of $94.3 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of approximately $78.0 million and $16.3 million in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances $29.3 million is available for reinvestment in two of our CLOs which we expect to provide meaningful spreads of the inexpensive costs of the associated debt which has a current weighted average rate of 1.44%.
The real estate principle cash balances are designated to repay senior notes on the two real estate CDOs as of course the reinvestment period on those CDOs has expired.
I remind you that we own a meaningful amount of those notes so that as the underlying real estate loan collateral pays off principle is returned to us – a portion of which represents cash gains on the extinguishment of debt.
Of course this unrestricted cash becomes available for reinvestment as is the case with the $16.5 million retuned to us this period.
In Q2 we had a net reduction of provisions for loan losses of approximately $1.2 million of which $1.9 million was removed from provisions for bank loans and $688 000 added for real estate loans for a previously impaired loan.
Regarding our bank loan portfolio we decreased reserves on our portfolio reflecting improved credit conditions on our general pool of loans.
This was partially offset by increased reserves for positions that were sold for credit reasons.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and to reiterate Jonathan’s point I characterize our bank loan portfolio credit as improving.
Five bank loans totaling $12.6 million are delinquent out of a total portfolio of $1.1 billion and remarkably all of our 49 real estate loans are current and performing.
Our leverage stands at a very modest 2.0x at June 30<sup>th</sup> which is a historic low for RSO.
When we treat our trust issuances which have a remaining term of over 23 years as equity our leverage is 1.8x.
Focusing on real estate leverage we ended Q2 a very conservative 0.85x levered on our entire real estate portfolio which includes unrestricted cash earmarked for new CRV loan originations.
Our overall leverage continues to decrease from December 2012 primarily due to pay downs and runoff of CLO debt and real estate CDO debt; as well as from equity raised from our common stock offering in April of $114.6 million – and to a lesser extent our dividend reinvestment program.
We also continued to sell preferred shares through an at-the-market program and sold 1.9 million shares at a weighted average price of $24.86 through this program during the six months ended June 30<sup>th</sup> for net proceeds of $47.4 million at a weighted average rate of 8.4%.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds from first series of preferred stock is 8.46% a very attractive cost of capital for RSO.
In terms of liquidity after taking into account paying the Q2 common and preferred stock dividends in late July we have $146 million of unrestricted cash with several real estate loan originations as enumerated by Dave Bloom in process and we intend to continue to invest this equity.
We end the June 30<sup>th</sup> quarter with GAAP book value of $5.55 down $0.05 from $5.60 at March 31<sup>st</sup>.
At June 30<sup>th</sup> our equity is allocated as follows: commercial real estate loans and CMBS 77%; commercial finance 18%; and 5% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I turn the call back over to Jonathan Cohen.
Thanks David.
Now with that I will open the call for any questions if there are any.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions.) I see you have no questions at this time.
(Operator instructions.) Your first question comes from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
I wanted to find out if you could comment on loan pricing and the impact if any that you could point out following the recent volatility in rates? I’ll give you my two bits and then I’ll hand it over to Dave Bloom.
I would say that we’ve slightly widened but not considerably but that we think that there’s a bigger pipeline because of it.
So I would say volumes we expect to increase dramatically as you heard Dave Bloom speak.
Rates I would say are modestly increased 25 bps 50 bps but we’re not seeing anything like the CMBS market in terms of total rate blowout.
I would follow on exactly what Jonathan said.
LIBOR has stayed relatively flat and it actually went down.
We’ve gotten to the point where we’re seeing more deals we’re getting incremental pricing on deals that have been around for a little while longer but basically flat with our borrowing costs remaining the same and really getting those same returns.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And are you seeing any changes in borrower behavior whether it be their underwriting assumptions or anything sector-specific perhaps relative to say multi-family? Anything that would cause their eagerness to take a loan to change? Our underwriting assumptions are certainly taking into account an increase takeout cost which we always due when we stress assets.
We are seeing more borrowers saying that they’re going to create more value kind of in transitional loan land until there’s real firming and more certainty in the CMBS world.
So no I mean it’s I think playing well for us but I think it’s a trend that will continue sort of based on the kind of law of maturities and deals that people still are committed to and will put more cash into to add to value before selling or putting permanent financing on.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Great thanks a lot.
Thanks Jade.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Gabe Poggi from EJF Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
You may have gone through this Dave Bryant – I just want to double check how much do you guys have of let’s call a newly originated CRE product that you’re currently carrying on your two lines? In other words what do you have right now that could eventually go into a securitization? And Jonathan you talked on the last conference call about kind of a forward origination – I don’t want to call it “guidance” but you threw out a number I think it was in the $400 million ballpark of what you think you can do from a new origination perspective for the year.
If you can just put some color around that that’ll be great.
Well I can start with question two.
I think that we’re starting to look at numbers that are much higher given the kind of dynamics in the marketplace with CMBS more expensive etc.
So I would revise that guidance up given our almost $100 million that we did this quarter and the pipeline that we’re closing into Q3.
I would say we’re starting to look at numbers between $500 million and $600 million in terms of originations.
And I think Dave might be even more bullish than that but in some sort of area like that.
And so Dave do you want to take the first question? Sure.
Between what we have on the line and what’s currently in closing and some that we’re holding unlevered – we’re roughly about $280 million sort of the 462 [Ap-issued] under negotiation.
Even assuming a one-third hit rate on them and that’s just now – it goes up by the day – that’s an additional $152 million which really puts us where we need to be to get a [tape] together and as Jon said go out as early as the end of Q3 beginning of Q4.
Perfect thanks guys.
Thank you Gabe.
Thank you.
There are no further questions so I’d like to turn the call over to you Jonathan Cohen for closing remarks.
Yeah I just want to say just one more thing to Gabe which is that you see in the marketplace a bunch of other companies coming out with securitization in our space.
Pricing looks good; it’s getting tighter.
We think there’s a lot of appetite here surely for the AAA bonds.
You see guys leveraging up to 75% 76% all the way down to BBB+s that are in the marketplace.
That bodes very attractively given where we’re leveraged today on an overall basis in our CRE portfolio as well as where we borrow on our two lines.
So hopefully this works out tremendously well for us.
We’ve been waiting to get some size rather than doing a little deal which is exciting.
Also you’re also seeing in these deals ramp periods even if they’re short six to twelve months maybe even 18 months which is very attractive rather than borrowing on a line at 225 250 275.
If you can borrow on securitization at 180 190 200 or less depending on the structure that’s really just tremendous.
So it bodes well for the future of Resource Capital driven mostly by the CRE origination which we’re seeing here.
So with that I will thank everybody for attending the call and hopefully these comments although long were detailed and helpful.
We look forward to speaking to you either during the quarter or on the next quarterly conference call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Resource Capital Corp Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and Chief Executive Officer of Resource Capital Corp.
You may begin.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp earnings conference call for the third quarter ended September 30 2013.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words “believes ” “anticipates ” “expects ” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title “Risk Factors.” Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO were $0.24 for the three months ended September 30 2013.
Book value to common shareholders was $5.55 per share at September 30 2013.
We paid a $0.20 per common share dividend for the three months ended September 30 2013.
We originated almost $250 million of new commercial real estate loans during the nine months ended September 30 2013.
With those highlights out of the way I will now intrigue my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
With the end of 2013 insight we are pleased with the return on one capital achieved during 2013 with an annualized return of approximately 15% net of expenses as determined by AFFO divided by book value.
As we model our business into 2014 we are not – we are now happy to guide our shareholders and we currently expect to pay a $0.20 per quarter dividend throughout 2014 or $0.80 for the year.
These projections are based on our expectations of robust originations at our commercial real estate lending business and good capital allocation and returns from our other businesses.
This guidance comes even in the face of the declining – severely declining might I add revenue and profit from our syndicated loan business with the runoff of legacy CLOs.
This runoff has affected the second and third quarters and will affect the fourth quarter of 2013 as well.
Two of our legacy CLOs Apidos I and Apidos III together have seen a decline of $143.3 million in investment assets combined since year end 2012.
This has reduced cash flow by $3.2 million versus the comparable nine months in 2012.
Our Whitney CLO was called in early September 2013 and was substantially liquidated during Q3 and this sell-off will remove cash earnings of $1.3 million received over the nine-month period in 2013.
Lastly Apidos VIII was called and liquidated in October 2013 and had net cash flow of $4 million during the first nine months of 2013.
This business has been an excellent investment for RSO and its shareholders.
Our overall returns have stellar 15% to 25% in excess of that on some of the CLOs.
And as we transitioned our corporate lending to a middle-market lending emphasis we continue to seek opportunities to generate solid returns on quality credit-related products to supplement our commercial real estate lending business.
However we expect to move past this negative trend during the first quarter of 2014 with the ramp up of our commercial finance business and its new middle-market loan focus as well as the ramp in commercial real estate business that I am about to discuss.
It has been an exciting quarter for the Resource Capital Corp and we are actively driving our business forward.
We are now originating commercial real estate loans at approximately double the pace of last year.
We expected to continue to grow.
Additionally as repayments of existing loans slowdown we can build up a larger portfolio faster.
Although we always continue to maintain our most critical focus on credit quality we have escalated our loan originations and are seeing a robust pipeline with lots of opportunity for Resource Capital Corp.
Also as previously discussed Resource Capital is contemplating a non-recourse securitized term financing for a portion of our CRE commercial real estate whole loan portfolio and we anticipated completing this in the fourth quarter of 2013.
We expect to take advantage of the ability to originate high-quality loans and hold them on our balance sheet a very competitive financing cost.
In September 2013 we sold a 504 unit multifamily property located in Texas for $37 million.
We have purchased this in August 2011 for $18 million and invested another approximately $4 million in capital expenditures to improve the building.
This sale resulted in IRR of 75.6% for Resource Capital Corp.
We are fortunate to have more equity investments on our books and we look forward to harvesting them in the future.
In October we closed on a total of $150 million of senior convertible notes with a 6% coupon.
This capital will allow us to fund our commercial real estate business pipeline rather inexpensively in our opinion.
As we look into 2014 we expect to originate between $600 million and $700 million in commercial real estate loans.
This offering should allow us to efficiently fund those originations and grow our businesses without returning to the capital markets.
In commercial finance area our leasing venture moved along nicely.
LEAF Commercial Capital LLC joint venture with – between the Resource Capital Corp and Eos the private equity concern the small ticket lease – the small ticket leasing business in which the company has made a senior participating preferred investment continued to build its business at least in loan originations for the year-to-date through September 30 2013 with $237.4 million compared to $180.2 million for the same period in 2012 a 31.7% increase.
Its lease and loan portfolio as of September 30 2013 was $503.2 million compared to $340.7 million as of September 30 2012 a 47.7% increase.
On September 26 it closed its largest term securitization deal to-date for $325 million.
Led by Credit Suisse this securitization was well received and had improved capital structure lower loss proxy and reduced spread compared to the term deal that closed in 2012.
Again we expect to realize great value in our investment here when it matures.
Since the quarter ended we added another specialty finance investment.
Last week we closed on the purchase of Primary Capital Advisors a residential loan and mortgage origination business.
The purchase price is approximately $8.4 million relatively small.
This acquisition gives us the ability to leverage PCA’s expertise in the residential mortgage origination space which is growing.
This is the type of strategic new product development that we had discussed with a modest capital investment we have acquired a solid credit oriented real estate business that we can scale as opportunities present themselves.
We have brought in a talented team led by Anthony Coniglio a specialty finance and mortgage specialist to run this business in conjunction with the current CEO of the business George Phelps and his team.
We look forward to growing this business and welcome aboard the team from PCA.
Our credit quality continues to be very solid.
Our real estate watch list is shrinking.
Our provision for loan losses was $541 000 as compared to $7.8 million during the nine months from a year ago a significant reduction by all accounts.
Our liquidity remains outstanding we have approximately $250 million of unrestricted cash as of October 31 including the proceeds of the $150 million of convertible notes offering.
We expect to end the year with approximately what was under $200 million of unrestricted cash.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $1.25 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO’s commercial and mortgage portfolio is comprised of 62 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $911 million.
The portfolio is in components as follows: 90% whole loans 8% mezzanine loan and 2% B notes.
The underlying collateral base continues to be in geographically diverse markets spread across the major asset categories with the portfolio breakdown of 34% multi-family 17% office 18% hotel 20% retail and 11% others such as mixed use and research and development.
During the third quarter of 2013 through today RSO has closed eight new loans totaling $108 million with six more loans in process for fourth quarter closing totaling another $96 million.
In addition as there always year end transactions we have the potential for an additional three to five loans totaling more than $75 million in advance stages of negotiations.
All or some of which could close by year end as well.
RSO currently has applications issued for eight more loans totaling approximately $150 million is in negotiation on $310 million of new lending opportunities and is actively underwriting a forward pipeline in excess of $300 million which has been the norm for several quarters running.
Through today RSO was closed $271 million of new loans in 2013 and with only the minimum anticipation of the $96 million in process for closing by year end 2013 would represent an approximate 100% increase over our new loan originations in 2012.
The steady increase in lending opportunities that fit our credit profile continues to increase with loan production growing consistently on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Based on the number of loans in process and in advanced stages of negotiation we are tracking towards annual loan production between $600 million and $700 million for 2014.
As demand for our floating rate bridge product and other customized financing solutions continues to be robust we have been actively adding personnel and growing our long-established national direct origination platform.
While we see many lending opportunities we remain extremely focused on credit value and deal structure.
And although we are lending on only lightly transitional properties we continue to lend on properties with business plans that stand up to rigorous underwriting and verification and with day one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
We are improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of the property securing our loans realizing improved cash flow on a year-over-year basis and continuing to trend in upward direction.
In addition we are pleased to see that the majority of the asset specific plans across the portfolio are well on track and progressing towards realization ultimately of the borrowers’ plans for value creation and the entire portfolio remains performing with no defaults.
We are very particular about markets in which we lend sponsor quality and asset-specific business plans and the resilience of the assets I just described is a daily reminder that validates our keen focus on credit first approach to our business.
To briefly address other real estate activities RSO still maintains a CMBS portfolio that is now approximately $330 million in the aggregate.
We continued to use moderate leverage to finance our CMBS portfolio that provides the opportunity to invest in AAA investments and earn returns of approximately 15%.
In addition to our whole loan origination and CMBS bond activities we continue to optimize properties owned.
RSO’s primary equity portfolio currently consist of four properties two multi-family properties totaling 650 units one 30 000 square foot office building and one full service hotel and resort all of which continue to perform well and are expected to be sold for gains as we did this quarter in the disposition of the multi-family property that Jonathan described.
While continuing to expand its debt platform RSO will also pursue opportunities to invest in both value-add and/or distressed real estate transactions that provide opportunities for significant capital appreciation and the ability to build book value.
With that I will turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thanks David.
Now I will also review our corporate loan portfolio.
Resource Capital’s syndicated bank loan portfolio has a carrying value of approximately $939 million at amortized costs.
Overall our portfolios remain in excellent condition.
As of September 30 2013 we have specific reserves of $1.9 million and general reserves of $1.1 million as compared to specific reserves of $3.4 million and general reserves of $936 000 for the second quarter of 2013.
We continue to forecast a good outlook in corporate credit for the next couple of years.
The default rate for the last 12 months was under 1% at 0.46%.
In addition to our portfolio of syndicated bank loans we also collect management fees from our acquisition of the right to manage three other CLOs on which during the quarter we earned net fees of $1.2 million.
As I mentioned earlier we are also beginning to make some direct investments in middle-market loans.
We have now built up a portfolio of approximately $25 million and expect to originate our first direct loan within the next few weeks.
We hope to expand our allocation to middle market corporate lending going forward.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
RSO’s board declared a cash dividend for the third quarter of $0.20 per common share or approximately $25.4 million.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the third quarter was $30.8 million or $0.24 per common share diluted respectively.
AFFO for the third quarter was impacted by several non-cash adjustments netting to $6.5 million and more importantly net cash inflows of approximately $16 million.
This represents a payout ratio of 83% for the quarter and 98% for the three and nine month periods respectively.
We passed all of the interest coverage and overcollateralization tests in our two real estate CDOs and five bank loan CLOs as of September 2013.
Each of these financing structures performed well and generated strong cash flow to us in 2013.
Through September the CRE CDOs produced approximately $43.3 million which includes a return of principal $27.4 million from our ownership of the RREF 2006 senior note class which we intend to recycle into the new CRE loan originations described by Dave Bloom.
Bank loan CLOs generated approximately $29.6 million of cash flow during the nine months ended September 30.
This improved cash flow reflects a very benign credit environment as well as our ability to invest recycled capital.
As of September 30 we had in excess of $53.7 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of approximately $53.3 million and $400 000 in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances $16.7 million is available for reinvestment in one of our CLOs which we expect will provide a significant spread over the very inexpensive cost of the associated debt.
The real estate CDO cash balance will be used to repay the senior notes on the two real estate CDOs.
Since we own a meaningful amount of these notes meaningful cash is returned to us when the underlying real estate collateral pays off.
I remind you that a portion of this cash returned represents realized gains on the extinguishment of the debt.
Of course this capital becomes available for reinvestment as is the case with the $10.9 million returned to us this quarter.
During Q3 our investment in the Whitney CLO was called and the securitization was substantially liquidated.
This reduced our bank loan assets and debt by over $100 million each.
And we expect to have our equity investment substantially return upon the final liquidation of the CLO.
As a result of this liquidation the accelerated original issued discount on the outstanding notes which represented a non-cash interest expense of in excess of $2.5 million during 2013.
Also in October 2013 our investment in Apidos VIII was called and the securitization was fully liquidated.
This will reduce our bank loan assets and debt by approximately $335 million and $318 million respectively in Q4.
As a result of this liquidation we expect a non-cash loss on the deconsolidation of $2 million to $2.5 million after getting effect to an income tax benefit.
More importantly we have received all of our original $15 million investment plus $0.5 million cash profit on the liquidation of the assets at slightly above par.
Year-to-date from 2013 we’ve had a modest position to provision for loan losses of approximately $0.5 million of which $1.5 million is a reduction is related to provision for bank loans and $2 million was added for real estate loans for a previously impaired loan.
Regarding our bank loan portfolio we decreased reserves reflecting improved credit conditions on our general pool of loans partially offset by some increased reserves for positions sold for credit reasons.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and I characterize the bank loan portfolio credit as very benign.
Three bank loans totaling $3.6 million are delinquent out of a portfolio of approximately $940 million and remarkably all of our real estate loans are current and performing.
Our leverage stands at a very conservative 1.8 times at September 30.
When we treat our trust issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 23 years as equity our leverage is 1.6 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we ended Q3 at 0.84 times on our entire real estate portfolio which includes unrestricted cash earmarked for new real estate loan originations.
Our overall leverage continue to decrease from 2012 year end primarily due to pay downs and runoffs of CLO debt and payoffs of CRE CDO debt and from a mortgage payoff from the associated sale of the underlying real estate property as well as from equity raised from our common stock offering in April and to a lesser extent our dividend reinvestment program.
We also used our at-the-market preferred stock program and sold 2.1 million shares at a weighted average price of $24.80 during the nine months ended September 30 for the total proceeds of $51.1 million at a weighted average rate of 8.25%.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds from growth series preferred stock is 8.46% an attractive cost of capital to RSO.
In terms of liquidity after taking into account the proceeds from our mid-October convertible note offering with the coupon of 6% and paying the third quarter common and preferred stock dividends we have $216 million of unrestricted cash as of October 31 with many real estate loan originations in process and intended to continue to invest this equity.
We ended September 30 with GAAP book value of $5.56 up $0.01 from the $5.55 at June 30.
At September 30 our equity is allocated as follows: commercial real estate loans and CMBS 78%; commercial finance 18%; and 4% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed.
And I turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you and thank you to all of our shareholders for supporting us during this quarter and to David and Purvi and to Dave Bryant for their comments.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question is from the line of Steve Delaney from JMP Securities.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and congratulations folks on the progress that you are making.
It’s obvious that there is a transition underway but you seem to have a vision of where you can be in a couple of quarters.
Jon a couple of things.
I am sorry could you repeat what you have stated you understand you sold the multi-family real estate property could you repeat what you said about what your return on investment on that transaction was? Thanks Steve.
It was around 75.5%.
Wow okay.
And I believe the comment that Dave Bloom may have said that the other four properties did I get the impression that you are going to hold those try to find the right time to sell? And are you suggesting that if those four were sold over the next year or two that they would likely be in a gain position as well? Yes we believe they are substantially in a gain position whether or not they get sold or not is not in our forecast.
Of course.
But it’s great for shareholders to know that they are sitting on things that are on their books for X [ph] but we all believe that they work a lot more.
Okay.
And as far as the transition I mean it obviously you are making great progress in the CRE whole loans but kind of fighting this headwind.
And if I heard things correctly we have that $900 million of the syndicated bank loans at September 30 but $300 million some of those were held-for-sale I guess pending one of the liquidations.
And then I think Dave Bryant said that overall in the fourth quarter we will go down by about something over $600 million.
So should we be thinking that by the end of this year that bank loan portfolio will be down to no more than about $300 million? Actually Steve I think you are double counting the $335 million held for sale or $330 million or so held for sale at September 30 is the one loan that was liquidate in October.
The other CLO was substantially liquidated by the end of September and there was just a little bit left that will go away in Q4 and we will get the rest of our equity back.
By the way just for historic states the CLO that was liquidated Apidos VIII although from a GAAP perspective it was probably on it from where it was on our books it was probably not it was a loss actually I think in the quarter.
From a cash perspective it was a tremendous gain on the transaction I think in the 30% or 40% area.
I don’t have the exact number with me but it was a tremendous return for the company over a three year period of time.
Okay so if I was double counting so I was suggesting that maybe bank loans at the end of the year would be – would be more around the $500 million level I am just trying to just… Yes but that doesn’t include the middle market product that we are originating which probably will be up about $100 million.
Okay got it.
And that product you are basically moving from syndicated – nationally syndicated bank loans which I assume is then a lot of the return has been just intermediated away.
And moving into the middle market is your expectation Jon that over time that could grow to something comparable to which you did in syndicated loans? I think over a long period time it’s possible but right now we are going to take one step at a time.
But we clearly think that the returns in a unlevered self-originated product are slightly levered in some cases.
We will begin earn in the mid-teens low to mid-teens.
We think is much more from a credit and risk perspective more attractive at this point than 10% or 11% return off of the CLO equity where you are 11 times levered.
Got it well that’s it.
Thanks for the comments and good luck for the balance of the year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Steve.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question is from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
You may begin.
Hi yes.
Thanks for taking my questions.
This is actually Ryan Tomasello on for Jade Rahmani.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on where you are seeing incremental asset yields.
And also if you’ve seen a change in spreads in either first mortgage or mezzanine loans quarter-over-quarter? I would say generally we have – and we actually just fund the asset we had our weekly call yesterday with our originators.
And I asked a similar question because sometimes it’s hard to see the whole space.
And their answer was it’s been pretty much the same yield both on the first mortgages and mez probably for the last six months.
It went up and down a little bit with interest rates in CMBS but it’s basically in the same area.
And what I think is different though is the securitization market is open.
We are seeing those rates drop and the structure is more conducive to long-term lending and higher IRRs for the equity holders.
Great and as a follow-up can you elaborate a little bit more on you talked about acceleration of closings going into end of the year you can just elaborate on that? Yes Dave Bloom? Yes certainly I mean this is a phenomenon that’s certainly new to us.
It’s fairly been this way since ’05.
But the fourth quarter is generally there are a number of year end closings.
So the acceleration is expected.
The sort of $115 million that we know will be closed this quarter as it’s in active documentation.
I would say I am conservatively saying it could go up it could be 190 because as there is pressure to move things at the end of the year and based on where we are in certain deals that acceleration happens we find ourselves at the end of the year doing three to six 40 to – 30 to 45 day closings.
So it’s always a potential.
I didn’t put it in the numbers but it’s certainly there.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you Ryan.
At this time we have no other questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen for your closing remarks.
Thank you again and we appreciate the support.
We look forward to speaking to you after the year end and of course into ‘14.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes your presentation and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Year Ended December 31 2013 Resource Capital Corp Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaquana (Ph) and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will facilitate a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call President and CEO Jonathan Cohen.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31 2013.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words “believes ” “anticipates ” “expects ” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A under the Form 10-K report under the title “Risk Factors.” Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I will turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO were $0.74 per share and $0.14 per share for the year ended and quarter ended December 31 2013 respectively.
Late last year we successfully completed a $308 million commercial real estate securitization in which we issued term notes in the amount of $261 million to outside investors at a weighted average spread of 1.86% and on which we expect to earn a return on invested equity of approximately 20% per year.
We expect to revisit the securitization market in the next few months and we expect the result to be even more favorable.
During 2013 we more than doubled commercial real estate loan originations with $344 million in loans closed compared to $163 million in 2012.
We expect to double this number again in 2014.
Our fourth quarter annualized run rate is near $400 million of originations.
We completed a $115 million 6% convertible senior notes offering in October.
We paid a $0.20 dividend for the quarter and $0.80 per share for the year.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are David Bloom Senior Vice President In-Charge of Real Estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
We earned over 10% on book equity during this quarter a decline from our previous levels but still decent.
We calculate this return by dividing AFFO adjusted funds from operations by book value.
This decline was caused primarily by a decrease in net interest earned net interest earned from our commercial loan obligations CLO and from an abundance in cash still remaining in our books through December 31 2013 mostly from our convertible notes offering that we completed in the fourth quarter.
For 2013 our return on book equity was 13.7% pretty good.
These results are after all costs and management fees.
From this point we expect AFFO to increase sequentially each quarter until we reach our current dividend rate of $0.20 in the third or fourth quarter.
We expect to earn AFFO this year 2014 of $0.75 to $0.80 and net income of close to $0.60.
We anticipate leaving 2014 with a run rate that is in excess of our current dividend.
In addition we expect to grow book value through the sale of investments that are not producing current income such as our $40 million investment in LEAF Commercial Capital.
We are very optimistic in this regard.
The driver for this expected growth in quarterly AFFO is the machine that Dave Bloom our Head of Real Estate and his colleagues are running.
As stated before for 2014 we expect to originate close to $700 million in commercial real estate loans.
Our ability to turn our loan origination production into good returns for our shareholders was proven it was demonstrated clearly late last year as we completed our first commercial real-estate securitization since 2007 for approximately $308 million in which we retained about $47 million in junior notes and equity position.
We expect to earn a yield of approximately 20% on this invested capital as I stated before.
We are pleased by this execution of this transaction in the validation of our commercial real-estate strategy that it demonstrates.
Our commercial real-estate origination platform is not the only part of our business that showed market progress late last year.
We have always invested a portion of our capital under the corporate loan space.
As our legacy portfolios of syndicated bank loans have run off embodied this hurt us from $1.2 billion in assets to less than half of that amount it is approximately $580 million.
We have transition to a middle market lending emphasis in the corporate space.
We think that this is an area we’re plea with good opportunities for Resource Capital Corp.
Currently our middle market lending business is growing and is approximately $80 million of funded loans and commitments.
We expect that business to have deployed $115 million by the end of the first quarter of 2014.
We’ve a full team in place to expand the growth of this business.
We continue to seek opportunities to generate solid returns on quality credit related products to supplement our commercial real-estate lending business.
These assets are directly offsetting the loss of net interest income that we were earning from the CLOs previously mentioned.
As this portfolio grows and cash disappears from our balance sheet it should add a significant boost to our earnings and our AFFO.
Through the end of February where we are now we are seeing it happen.
Between the ramp of our commercial real-estate originations and the ramp of our middle market lending portfolio we expect to be fully invested by the end of May.
As that occurs we expect to add leverage to our portfolio until it is appropriately leveraged for a specialty finance REIT.
Our credit quality continues to be very-very solid.
Our real-estate watch list is shrinking.
Our provision for loan losses was $3 million as of December 31 2013 as compared to $16.8 million during the previous year a very significant reduction.
Our liquidity remains outstanding.
We believe that we will end March 31 2014 with only $100 million of cash and most of that will be consumed by origination as early as late May.
Once that is done and the cash is invested we should see our return on equity returns to historic levels.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real-estate activities.
Thanks Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp’s commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $1.2 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolios comprised of 67 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $915 million.
The underlying collateral base continues to be in geographically diverse markets spread across the major asset categories with a portfolio breakdown of 33% multi-family 17% office 19% hotel 21% retail and 10% other such as research and development and mixed use deals.
The portfolio is in components as follows: 91% whole loans 7% mezzanine loans and 2% B notes.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 RSO closed seven new loans with commitments totaling $98 million.
Total new loan production for the full year of 2013 was approximately $350 million.
By the end of 2013 our new loan originations had ticked up to a pace of approximately $400 million a year representing year-over-year loan production growth of over 100%.
Since the beginning of the first quarter of 2014 we have closed two new whole loans with commitments totaling $30 million and two mezzanine loans with commitments totaling approximately $4.4 million.
In addition we’re in the process of closing five more new whole loans with commitments totaling $126.3 million all of which were expected to close by the end of the first quarter.
As of today new loan production for the first quarter of 2014 is anticipated to be approximately $161 million.
If the new loans in process insulted to close in the first quarter of 2014 stay on schedule RSO will have again grown loan production significantly but this time on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
While we have seen significant growth in our quarterly new loan production we remain extremely focused on credit quality and property values and are holding to strict valuation metrics sponsor experience asset quality and diversity standards within a hallmark of our traditional bridge lending program.
We note that our continued attention to credit quality and diversity was rewarded in our recent CRE notes offering with 85% of the $308 million pool rating single A or higher which drove our ROE on the transaction to approximately 20%.
As we look beyond the first quarter of 2014 RSO currently has a $7.5 million loan in process and scheduled to close early in the second quarter.
Applications issued for five more loans totaling approximately $154 million.
The negotiations on an additional $260 million of new lending opportunities and is actively underwriting a forward pipeline in excess of $300 million to $400 million which has increased by about $100 million over the last several quarters.
Based on the number of loans in process and advance stages of negotiation we’re tracking towards annual loan production of between $600 million and $700 million for 2014.
Volume predictions we obviously hope to exceed.
RSOs increased loan production will continue to drive earnings as we utilize our $450 million of term financing facilities provided by our commercial banking partners with maximum returns on invested equity being realized as we access the CRE notes securitization market with greater regularity and optimally match fund our portfolio of loans.
As demand for our floating rate bridge product and other customized financing solutions continues to be robust.
We have been actively adding personnel and growing our long established national direct origination platform.
We continue to see improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of the properties securing our loans continuing to trend in an upward direction.
We’re again pleased to report that the entire RSO commercial mortgage portfolio is performing with no defaults.
We’re very particular about markets in which we lend while additional markets continued to recover the depth and breadth of a given market sponsor experience and asset specific business plans all play heavily in our underwriting process.
In addition although we’re lending on lightly transitional properties we continue to target properties with stabilized projections that stand up to rigorous stressed underwriting and verification with day one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
The positive performance of our portfolio is a daily reminder that validates our keen focus on credit first and market centric lending approach we apply to our origination process.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end.
Thank you Dave Bloom.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the fourth quarter $0.20 per common share approximately $25.5 million.
Our adjusted fund from operations or AFFO for the quarter was $17.2 million or $0.14 per share diluted.
In determining AFFO for the fourth quarter there were several non-cash adjustments in a net amount of $19.5 million the largest of which relates to a $16 million non-cash loss on a deconsolidation of Apidos CLO VIII which I characterize as an accounting anomaly that I’ll discuss in detail in a minute.
As highlighted earlier in late December we closed on our newest real-estate securitization which provided us with additional leverage and very attractive returns.
This allowed us to substantially repay one of our real-estate term facilities which in turn provided us with available leverage to grow real-estate loan origination business.
We ended 2013 with $419.3 million combined availability when our existing term facilities to help fuel our anticipated growth in 2014.
We passed all of the interest coverage and over collateralization costs in our legacy securitizations including our two real-estate CDOs and three remaining bank loan CLOs.
Each of these financing structures performed well and generated strong cash flow to us in 2013.
The real-estate CDOs produced approximately $47.7 million which includes a return of principle of $28.1 million from our ownership of the 2006 CDO senior note class which we have recycled into new real-estate loan originations.
Bank loan CLOs generated approximately $56.7 million of cash flow which includes a return of $33.5 million from two CLOs that liquidated during the calendar year 2013.
This strong cash flow reflects the strength of our credit businesses and presents us an opportunity to invest recycled capital which has begun in earnest.
As of December 31st we had an excess of $61.4 million of restricted cash in these structures comprised of approximately $53.8 million and $7.6 million in our bank loans and real estate deals respectively.
Of these balances $27.5 million is available for reinvestment in one of our CLOs which we expect will provide a significant spread over the very inexpensive cost of the associated debt a weighted average rate of 0.77%.
The $7.6 million in the real estate securitization is designated towards future funding on existing loans.
During the fourth quarter our investment in Apidos CLO VIII was called and the securitization was substantially liquidated.
This reduced our bank loan assets by approximately $335 million and debt by approximately $320 million and all of our invested equity was returned upon final liquidation.
Note that the transaction was cash flow positive for the company and we received back all of our capital.
Nonetheless as a result of the CLO liquidation under GAAP we were required to accelerate original issue discount on the outstanding notes and deferred issuance cost which results in a noncash interest expense of in excess of 16 million in Q4 2013.
As it’s too often the case the accounting roles were complicated put simply we consolidated the CLO and treated the other equity holder as a borrowing with an imputed interest rate below their share of earnings in cash flow.
This anomaly has resulted in our earnings exceeding our proportionate share with the CLO from inception through liquidation in October.
Of course we excluded such excess in determining adjusted funds from operations; however because of the liquidation and deconsolidation in Q4 we must essentially derecognize those GAAP earnings through net income for the items I sighted the OID and deferred deal costs.
This is only an accounting requirement substantively we received 100% of our original $15 million investment plus profits of nearly $6 million in a little over two years’ time a very solid 19% IRR on these investment.
Technical issues such as these are widely utilized AFFO to provide our stakeholders with what we regard as the most reflected measure of our operation.
In Q4 2013 we added $2.5 million to provision for loan losses of which $1.8 million is related to provisions for bank loans.
Most of this increase results from the sales of a few positions for credit reasons which required us to increase reserves before those sales were consummated.
We added 700 000 to our real estate loan reserve primarily for our previously impaired loan.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and I characterized our bank loan portfolio as very benign.
Three bank loans totaling $3.6 million are delinquent out of a portfolio of $580 million and all 57 of our real estate loans are current and performing.
Our leverage stands at a very conservative 1.7 times at yearend.
When we treat our trust issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 23 years as equity our leverage is 1.5 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we ended 2013 at a conservative 1.13 times on our real estate portfolio which includes unrestricted cash earmarked for new loan originations.
Our overall leverage continued to decrease from 2012 yearend due to pay downs and runoffs of CLO debt CRE debt and the CDOs and from a mortgage payoff from the associated sale of the real estate property as well as from equity raised to our common stock offering in April and to a lesser extent our dividend reinvestment program.
We also used our at-the-market preferred stock program and sold 2.4 million shares at a weighted average price of $24.56 through this program during 2013 for total proceeds of $56.8 million at a weighted average rate of 8.25%.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds from those series of preferred stock is about 8.5% a very attractive cost of capital to RSO.
In terms of liquidity after taking into account the significant proceeds from the mid-October convertible note offering and after paying the fourth quarter common and preferred stock dividends in late January we have a 199 million of unrestricted cash at the end of January with several real estate and little market loan originations in process and intended to invest this equity.
We ended December 31st GAAP book value of $5.41 down $0.15 from the $5.56 at September 30 2013.
At year end our equity is allocated as follows; commercial real estate loans and CMBS 83% commercial finance 15% and 2% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I turn the call over to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave Bryant.
As Dave explained our investment that caused a $16 million loss this quarter was a non-cash item caused by accounting requirements and timing.
In fact in total this investment was quite good netting out a 19% IRR over two years.
As I have mentioned before it is my opinion that we will achieve the goals that I set forth here for 2014 and maintain our dividend at $0.20 per quarter during 2014 and or $0.80 for the entire year.
With that I will open the call for any question.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Steve Delaney representing JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Hey John step back for a minute and just help me understand from a macro level why the syndicated bank loan business is winding down or what we are seeing with these repayments is this just contractual maturities that’s part of the question and why are new loans if a loan is maturing why your new syndicated loans not being refinanced and put on so that those structures and that business model can continue? Thanks.
Sure.
These are legacy CLOs that structures that we did in 2005 2006 2007 area and they allow you to the structure issued notes just like a securitization for anything would and bought assets.
And then at a certain point in the case of most of these it was a five year I believe investment period five to seven year investment period so that starting in 2012 to take example of the ones in 2006 and ‘07 those investment periods were over.
So corporate issuers all around the world started to refinance their own debt or payoff their own debt with different like a private equity company going public or something like that.
Once our investment period was over we were no longer able to reinvest all proceeds from refinanced loan or pay down would go to paying down debt.
Right the senior notes.
The senior notes and then the junior notes and then eventually it will become unprofitable not that leveraged and the deals will be called by the equity owners of the transaction these deals were fantastic.
We probably earned between 25% and 40% compounded return from 2004 to 2012 I mean so these have been a really wonderful transactions for Resource Capital.
Since these were priced at such a low spread over LIBOR back in the day and as you say the 05 to 07 I think what I am hearing is even if there was demand for these loans and even if loans were available.
I am sorry; there is great demand for loans.
These companies are issuing loans but at 4% not at 5% or 6% and the borrowings for these loans are let’s say at 250 basis point not at 50 basis points.
Yes go ahead.
I am sorry.
When we actually looked at replicating that the returns of CLO equity might be in the low-teens 10% 11% rather than 40% and they are very highly levered.
We prefer to originate our own middle market loans that are lowly levered and earned in the mid-teens on that basis which is why we started the middle market lending program.
And that’s where I was going next.
Thank you.
So the middle market program will that still be managed by the same team Gretchen’s team that was doing the syndicated loans or is that a different team?  No we have our own team internally that has a tremendous amount of experience a bunch of people from GE from BBC from credit shops that have been doing this a long time that we built over the last year or so.
And we started to originate we have about 80 million that we have originated we expect in the first quarter at 115 and it’s starting to replace the losses from the loss net interest income that we are losing from the CLOs.
And lastly as you get to certain scale 300-200-300 million whatever you need is there structured financing that you’ll be able to put on that portfolio.
Well like the DDCs it’s a very lowly levered pool of assets.
So we would imagine that it would not have tremendous amounts of leverage.
Okay.
So you just going to price the loans it’ll be priced such that you get your return there without a lot of leverage.
Exactly and there we’re looking for mid teens total return to RSO.
Well thanks for that sorry that was keys but thanks that helps me.
Yes and may be really highlighting obviously we’ve been as these things have accelerated as the credits markets have accelerated and paybacks have come more rapidly the lowering of net interest income and return from those CLOs and the fact to pay off of one Apidos VIII that Dave mentioned even though these were tremendous returns for us means that we have to rebuild from this low point of 10%-11% ROEs back to the 14% but we’ve got plenty of capital and plenty of origination you’re going to see that in the first quarter what we’re putting on the books and I think everybody will be quite happy.
Thank you.
And one final quick thing we noticed that from September to December you re-classed one of your REO properties of $25 million for sale.
Can you just comment on what type of property that is and I know in the past you’ve been able to actually get recoveries greater than your carrying value do you have an expectation that that particular property might be able to have a good outcome on? Thank you.
Yes.
We actually -- Steve this is Dave Bloom.
Hi Dave.
That’s resort hotel and Coconut Grove Florida and yes we would absolutely see sale there for again over our basis.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just had an observation good morning John and David.
Obviously the only return the investors have gotten here is a dividend because the stock is going nowhere for a long period of time and obviously down with drift.
And the theory concerned (Ph) with me is we’re constantly issuing equity at very high cost which has become very difficult to put that money out without being dilutive to the distribution.
Now I heard when you say there was comforted by the comment in the distribution of $0.80 is likely secure this year.
But I would really ask you to reexamine the policy of constantly issuing equity and sorting out that you don’t have the ability to put the money to work in a timely basis which flattened the distribution.
Lee just for the record we did reexamine that equity issuance and we actually have not issued any equity since April of 2013.
Done preferred stock? We have done some preferred stock that’s right.
Either the preferred either the commercial? Yes but that was a very small amount.
But my point being that we’re not issuing equity till we’re fully ramped back up to where we think is a great return on equity for our shareholders which we believe net of all cost in the 13% to 14% is quite achievable and a very good return to our investors.
So you will not see us in the equity markets till we achieve that.
Yes well that’s a very close call so if you take 13% to 14% on the 541 book value it’s not terribly different in the distribution so I think you have to be careful because this stock would trade directly with the distribution.
I agree with that.
Thank you for taking my call.
Quick question of David Bloom this past quarter’s CRE loan originations of $98 million slightly that was somewhat disappointing given the I won’t call it guidance but the detail you provided in the last conference call there was $115 million according this transcript that we know will be closed in the quarter and there was an upper bound given a $190 million.
And the $98 million that’s half of that.
Was there something that happened in the middle of the quarter or towards the end of the quarter? Did the term of that production get pushed back into this quarter? Yes.
Actually we did have one large loan that still out it was an acquisition financing and the acquisition did not pan out in diligence we were ready to go with the way that it ramped the sponsored didn’t move forward on the trade.
We feel the numbers that I am talking about for this quarter are loans that are in process documentation being done on depending acquisitions some of the forward pipeline is obviously always acquisition related but I think that was the large swing in the fourth quarter.
Yes I might also add that you have to look at it overtime because this is -- we move to one of the reasons for instance we did the convertible note offering whether we need liquidity to fund larger loan so our -- while before we would add it will take 6 or 7 loans it’s like $10 million closing.
We’re now having 5 loans closing with some of them being hoping to get to 150 million and some of them being as large as $45 million or $38 million and these are much more complicated deals with much more equity.
And therefore they sometimes push from quarter-to-quarter they sometimes fall.
But I think you can look at it and we like to think that the trend is our friend.
In 2012 we did a 163; in 2013 we did about 340 or something like that.
Obviously had $98 million for the last quarter where somewhat right around $400 million run rate.
I think you will be able to imply a run rate well north of that in the first quarter.
And obviously the counter to that which is very productive is that we’re not seeing prepayments the way that we used to see which was that we would put out 70 and we get back 40 and we would sell one loan for 20 and we net 10 that’s the yesteryear 2012.
I think we’re feeling like we’re going to add a lot of assets to balance sheet during the next six months.
Okay and one more question of David Bryant.
Operating expenses particularly G&amp;A; we’re somewhat higher that I had expected in the fourth quarter is there some kind of yearend and these non-compensation expenses? These are overhead expenses.
Is there some kind of yearend approval or something that might have driven those up? There are some fourth quarter adjustments for instance all of our audit expense goes through or most of it anyway goes through the fourth quarter or that worth begins in earnest and then we all had some legal expenses and acquisition costs that were expense related to our acquisition of this small resi mortgage origination business that we talked about last quarter.
Okay.
And the other thing is that now that we’re consolidating that company all their G&amp;A is coming through our income statement and that’s a labor intensive business with a lot of somewhere neighborhood with 80 to 85 employees.
We want to thank you for supporting us during 2013 and we look forward to delivering in 2014.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Quarter One 2014 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sally and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We’ll conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings call for the first quarter ended March 31 2014.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from these contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights.
Adjusted funds from operations were $0.20 per share for the quarter ended March 31 2014 a 43% increase from last quarter.
During the quarter we had commercial real estate loan originations of $111.6 million as compared to $61.4 million the same quarter last year.
We expect to close at least and I underline the word at least $160 million of new loans during the quarter ended -- the quarter ending June 30 2014.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 for the quarter.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate; David Bryant Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
We are very pleased to have earned $0.20 of adjusted funds from operations during this quarter matching our dividend of $0.20.
This is a sharp increase from last quarter.
This Increase was driven by commercial real estate lending our new securitization some new investments on the commercial finance side of our business and our continued re-leveraging of our business through the use of convertible senior notes at 6% as well as preferred stock issuance at approximately 8.5%.
As stated on last quarter’s conference call we are confident that we will be fully invested by the end of the second quarter and look forward to using this investment cycle to better leverage our balance sheet to appropriate the conservative level.
An example of this leveraging will be through when we again access the real estate securitization market.
We expect to continue to earn approximately $0.27 of AFFO adjusted funds from operations per quarter through the remainder of the year.
During the first quarter of 2014 Resource Capital Corp.
made over $300 million of high-quality diversified investments in commercial real estate and commercial finance.
Our pipeline is very strong and we hope to increase those investment levels sequentially throughout the year.
Our core CRE or commercial real estate loan origination production is running at a significantly higher rate than a year ago and some of our newer initiatives are already beginning to make a significant contribution and we expect this to grow in a meaningful way.
As I mentioned we expect to finish the second quarter with commercial real estate lending production of at least $160 million and I again emphases the word at least and there is a good chance that number will be much higher.
In commercial real estate the company currently has nine new loans in process and other application totaling $254 million.
The company has an ongoing pipeline of new commercial real estate loan opportunities in various stages of negotiation and underwriting of new whole loan representing almost $500 million our potential investment.
As per book value we have several assets that we are confident have value beyond their GAAP book value.
We believe year end book value will end at the current level approximate current level.
For example since the end of the first quarter we have sold our hospitality property on which we held the loan and later acquired an equity interests.
With this sale we have been paid in full on our loan which was paid current at all-time and have realized the gain of approximately $5.25 million.
This demonstrates some of the unlocked value that we carry on our balance sheet.
We also -- it also shows our ability to work effectively with our borrowers doing a variety of situations and help create win-win situation that help our borrowers and our shareholders.
We have always invested a portion of our capital into the corporate loans space and we have transition that to the middle market lending emphasis.
Currently our middle market lending business is growing and during the first quarter it deployed $58.2 million of capital.
We have a full team in place to expand the growth of this business.
During the first quarter RSO also invested $37.8 million in two European CLO equity position and expect to make a 21% IRR on these investments.
The company also made $23.6 million of new investments during the first quarter of 2014 in one of the remaining leverage loan vehicle Apidos Cinco which had a return of equity of over 40% in 2013 and we are redeploying all available capital as the reinvestment period winds down into middle market loan and the low cost of financing provide significant returns for our shareholder.
We continue to seek opportunities to generate solid returns on quality credit related products to supplement our commercial real estate lending business.
As this portfolio grows it should add a significant boost to our earnings and our AFFO.
Between the ramp of our commercial real estate origination and our middle market lending portfolio we expect to be fully invested by the end of June.
As that occurs we expect add leverage to our portfolio.
We finished the period 1.9 times levered and we will increase this during 2014 as we strategically utilize leverage to increase our invested capital.
LEAF Commercial Capital the small-ticket leasing business that we've invested into a partnership with a leading private equity firm has continued to make excellent progress.
In recently secured new financing vehicles with Credit Suisse and now as more than sufficient funding capacity to grow its business for the foreseeable future.
Even at the 50% compound annual growth rate that has enjoyed over the last few years.
We believe that this is another area of where the value of our holdings is greater perhaps much greater than GAAP book value.
Our credit quality continues to be very solid our real estate watch-list is shrinking and we reverse $4.6 million of the specific allowance in the first quarter as a result of the pending sale by the borrower on the property of a legacy the whole loan that will pay down the existing balance and further reduce our legacy loan portfolio.
We concurrently maintain the general reserve of $5.8 million on our commercial real estate loan portfolio with an outstanding principal balance of $918 million as of March 31 2014.
This is in line with our recent charge-off history and reflects our strong focus on originating commercial real estate loans with strong credit profile.
Even as we are increasing our origination capacity our primary focus remains credit quality.
Our liquidity remains outstanding.
We had approximately $166 million of unrestricted cash as of March 31st.
As I have already mentioned our pipeline are full and we expect that we will be fully invested by the end of the second quarter.
Once that is done and the cash is invested we should see our return on equity return to historic level.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thank you very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.'s commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance of approximately $1.3 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO's commercial mortgage portfolios comprised of 63 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1 billion.
The portfolio its in-component is follows 93% whole loans 6% mezzanine loans and 2% B-notes.
The underlying collateral base continues to be in geographically diverse markets spread across the major asset categories with the portfolio breakdown of 36% multi-family 16% office 18% hotel 20% retail and 10% other such as industrial and mixed use deal.
During the first quarter of 2014 Resource Capital closed five new loans with commitments totaling approximately $170 million.
As of the end of the first quarter new loan production on a trailing 12-month basis was approximately $395 million comprised of 26 individual loans Since the beginning of the second quarter of 2014 we have closed three new whole loans with commitments totaling approximately $60 million and in the process of closing five additional loans and one new mezzanine loan with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $173 million As Jonathan noted in his comment anticipated new loan closings by the end of the second quarter are projected to be at least $160 million.
That said to the extent of certain acquisitions we are financing close without extensions.
It is possible that the full $173 million of deals in process will fund prior to the close of the second quarter which will put new loan production for the current quarter at $233 million or more.
Between $177 million of closed transactions and new loans deep in process provided that all of the transaction and documentation close total new originations for 2014 as of today are approximate $350 million.
I have noted on previous calls that our new loan production is casing at about twice the volume we saw in 2013 and our 2014 loans bears this out and is already equal to last year’s total new origination.
While RSO will have again grown quarterly loan production significantly we remain extremely focused on credit and market fundamentals and are holding to strict asset quality valuation metrics sponsor experience and diversity standards that have always guided our core bridge lending program.
As we look beyond the second quarter of 2014 RSO currently has two new loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $62 million in process for closing in the third quarter with applications issued and under active negotiations for approximately $160 million of additional new origination.
In addition RSO is actively underwriting a forward pipeline between $400 million and $500 million of new lending opportunities which continues to increase on a quarter-over-quarter basis as demand for our traditional floating rate bridge loan increases and as we add and scale new loan programs to our nationwide platform of self-originated customized real estate financing solutions.
On the last call it was noted that RSO was on track for 2014 annual new loan production between $600 million and $700 million and that we still feel very confident in this anticipated volume projection.
During the period that we are aggregating collateral RSO will continue to utilize our $450 million of term financing facilities provided by our commercial banking partners to drive earnings growth.
Maximum returns on invested equity will be realized when we again access the commercial real estate note securitization market which we anticipate doing more frequently based on the velocity of new originations in order to match fund loan portfolios in the most efficient manner.
Credit across the portfolio continues to trend in very positive direction with improving metrics across all assets classes.
The majority of the properties securing our loans are continuing to realize improved cash flow and receiving borrower's plans for value creation well on or ahead of track.
Once again I'm pleased to report that the entire commercial real estate loan portfolio is performing with no defaults.
As existing assets are recapitalized sold and paid off the very short list of legacy positions that require extra asset management sessions has grown even shorter.
One of these loans is under a definitive agreement to be resolved this quarter with another two loans in process of ultimate resolution and if successful looking for a late second quarter or early third quarter payoff of both positions with full recoveries and substantial exit fees.
We continue to harvest real estate owned for gains.
In addition to the disposition of the hospitality asset that Jonathan mentioned two additional owned properties are slated for imminent sale.
A 30 000 square foot office building has a contract in the final stages of negotiations and our sole remaining wholly-owned multifamily property is fully stabilized providing strong cash flow and therefore we anticipate broadly marketing this property before year end.
Finally RSOs venture with an institutional partner that owned a portfolio of 20 non-performing loans and distressed multifamily properties representing an investment of approximately $160 million at its peak is now down to two assets representing approximately $10 million of remaining book value both of which are slated for resolutions by the end of the second quarter.
RSO has booked gains through its 25% profit participation as this portfolio has been resolved.
With that I'll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for the Q&amp;A section of the call.
Thank you.
Thank you Dave Bloom.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the first quarter of $0.20 per common share approximately $25.6 million.
Our adjusted fund from operations or AFFO for the quarter was $25 million also $0.20 per share common shares diluted.
In determining AFFO for the first quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that led to approximately $5 million.
And cash adjustments of $6.4 million of which $4.5 million comes from the recognition of cash gains on the extinguishment of debt and $1.9 million from realized gains on the sales of two real estate joint venture investments.
We passed all of the interest coverage and over collateralization tests in all of our securitizations including our two legacy real estate CDOs and three remaining bank loans CLOs.
Each of these financing structures performed well and continued to generate strong cash flow to us in the first quarter.
We ended Q1 2014 with approximately $157 million of real estate loans on our term facilities.
So when we add the expected origination growth in Q2 we anticipate having sufficient assets allowing us to close our next real estate CLO later this summer.
We ended Q1 2014 with $407 million available on these facilities that will help fuel our anticipated real estate growth in 2014.
In the first quarter we saw a net reduction of $4 million in provisions for loan losses.
The reversal of $4.6 million on our real estate loan was offset by an increased provisions of $600 000 with bank loans.
Most of that offset resulted from the sales repositioned for credit reasons which required us to increase reserves before those sales were consummated.
We ended the period with $5.8 million in real estate allowances and $700 000 in bank loan allowances.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and I continue to characterize our bank loan portfolio credit as very benign.
Only one bank loan of $1.6 million is delinquent out of a portfolio of $732 million only 21 basis points and all $60 million of our commercial real estate loans are performing.
Our leverage stands at 1.9 times at March 31 2014.
When we trim our TruPS issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 23 years as equity our leverage is 1.7 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we end Q1 at 1.33 times on our entire real estate portfolio which includes unrestricted cash earmarked for these new real estate loan originations.
Our modest increase in leverage came from the new CLO investment and increased borrowings under our real estate term facilities that again helps fund our real estate loan origination business.
These increases to leverage will offset partially our paydowns and runoffs of CLO debt real estate CDO debt as well as from a modest amount of equity raised during at-the-market preferred stock program.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds from that program both series of preferred stock is 8.57%.
In terms of liquidity after paying the first quarter common and preferred stock dividends in late April we have $156 million of unrestricted cash with several real estate and middle market loan originations in process and intended to invest this equity.
We ended the March 31st quarter with GAAP book value per share of $5.28.
At March 31st our equity is allocated as follows -- commercial real estate loans and CMBS 73% commercial finance 26% and 1% in other investments.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave Bryant.
And with that I will open the call for any questions if there are any.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV &amp; Company.
Good morning.
And thank you for taking my call.
First question Dave Bloom I hate to start this call this way but during the last earnings conference call I think we’re talking about a $160 million in production for the first quarter.
Are any of those five loans that closed in this quarter were they supposed to have closed in the first? Well Dave can answer that.
Yes Rich they are.
And to the extent that we have tried to articulate in acquisition financings we’re certainly ready but don’t control the entire transaction simply put.
So if we look at where we’re pacing we’d like to give a degree on either side of that Jon’s number was 160 for this quarter I told you what we have in process.
Let me just intervene here for one second.
So just there is $30 million of loans that’s slipped from the end of March to the beginning of April and so we would have been more like in the 140 to143 range have we completed those loans which we thought would have.
But when you deal with acquisitions as you know these things sometimes can be on again off again and so we lost a week or two in with those two loans which we’re happy to close.
On the flip side and Dave mentioned this I gave guidance at least $160 million because we’ve been a little bit high in our guidance in past quarters and we thought it will be good to know that even though we believe we will close north of $200 million of loans we’re giving guidance out there about $160 million which we think is pretty conservative.
Although it gives you a sense whether it’s 200 or 160 if you combine the first two quarters at 111 and 200 or 160 whatever you want to call it you are averaging about $135 million to $150 million per quarter which gets you to kind of an annualized $600 million-ish number or a little bit less on the low side there.
But obviously we are seeing incredible amounts of momentum which we’re very pleased with.
Okay.
So you are still comfortable with the $600 million to $700 million for total 2014? Absolutely.
Okay.
Second question there was a sizeable increase in the syndicated bank loan portfolio and you indicated that they were all funded by the Apidos CDO.
I thought two of those were closed for reinvestment and the last one I believe closes this month.
How are you funding them? Well actually just little bit artificial that number.
We were accounting for us to consolidate a investment that we made in a third party managed European CLO and therefore we made approximately -- what was the investment about $30 million investment.
Correct.
Which we probably won’t hold for very long but that investment which had been very low leverage European CLO of corporate loans had to be consolidated.
So the assets are higher than they were last quarter but only originating in that one CLO that I mentioned Apidos CDO.
Yes.
So the net investments were a lot lower than what shows up in the portfolio? Exactly.
And finally David Bryant the $4.5 million of gains on extinguishment of debt did you buy back any bonds in the quarter or… No Rich what had happened was we had previously bought back bonds A1 notes the highest rated notes in the 2006 real estate CDO and we sold them back into the market at an early par so we got all that cash came back because we had bought them back.
When we originally bought them it was at much less than par.
So we sold them back out at $0.99 took all that cash gain that was remaining and the debt that we sold back is at LIBOR plus about 40 basis points.
So it’s very cheap financing for us.
Just to be clear when we bought the bonds years ago we booked the GAAP gain but we didn’t book it through AFFO because it was not a cash gain.
That’s right John.
And now that we actually sold it and we realized the cash we realized the cash gain because we received the cash versus the cash that we put out in the investment.
Right.
Okay that’s all I have to ask.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Rich.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Steve Delaney from JMP Securities.
Good morning everyone and congratulations on a good start to the year.
John I had some slow reception I apologize if my question if you cut started in your comments.
But we have been reading lately some news releases about the residential mortgage company down in Atlanta Primary Capital that you invested in.
And I was just curious if you could comment on that and talk about the amount of money that you did invest and do you see this is more of what I guess I would describe as a merchant banking type investment or did you see this as more of a strategic platform type investment where you’re looking to Primary Capital to create credit assets that you would hold on in the RSO portfolio? Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
I think that it’s still unknown where our investment will go.
We are very supportive of what Primary Capital is doing.
We are very excited about it.
We’re relatively small investment under $10 million on our books.
Is that right? When we acquired it it was about $7.5 million and then we invested another $10 million to keep the business -- get the business going.
Right we put $10 million of capital and this is working capital into the business.
So it’s a relatively small investment.
We will see where it goes.
We are hopeful that they can grow their origination platform which we are very excited about both intellectually and from an investment perspective.
We think it will work out great for Resource Capital’s shareholders.
I think you will see some of the fruits of what we have done before for instance at least capital where essentially that is sold into the market in building these specialty finance companies for our shareholders and realizing gains.
So the answer is we are not really sure it could be a little bit of merchant banking.
We could buy things opportunistically onto our balance sheet and we see great investments.
We are certainly going to be buying them because that’s what we think we do well.
Okay great.
So we will just stay tuned for more developments there and then on the CLO [side floating on the] (ph) CMBS front.
I am just curious is that market is staring to evolve and loosening up.
Are you doing this -- are you still doing senior floating bridge loans? And I mean are you looking at structures that would provide you with the replenishment feature just sort of kind of constantly be able to have a cash sitting from payoffs that you can constantly reinvent.
I am just curious if going down the road we might see structures that have a replenishment period for you like we did back in the old days.
Actually this is Dave Bloom.
We are certainly very close to the market and I look at all of the sort of CLO notes.
They are quite frankly not being many of them.
There have been cash issuers of floating rate CMBS say our peers.
We are certainly with each deal seeing additional features coming along in meetings that we have with the agencies which we do regularly.
There are preparations being made for towards the replenishment criteria that there are.
And in short I think we’re working our way there but it's going to take a little bit of time.
We are certainly not going to push very very hard.
Those who have done it have there very unique situations and they are selling AAAs at very very expensive rates.
Right.
I knew there would definitely be a cost to hedge that quick capability so to speak okay well great...
I will just add Steve.
This is Jonathan.
The markets that we are all seeing were at the forefront of it.
And I think that as we showed with our first deal that I think led to better execution for numerous issuers in the marketplace.
They’ve kept pushing now a little bit.
I think that people become more and more comfortable with the asset class looking and smelling or performing as well as some of its brethren.
I think you’ll see the capability of the top tier manager which we would like to include ourselves there have a little bit more flexibility.
Well again congrats and thanks for the comments.
Appreciate.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matthew Stolzar from Pyrrho Capital Management.
Go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
On your last call you said that you expect run rate 2014 AFFO ending the year in excess of the current dividend.
Can you walk us through which one-time items should be back out to retract the process your progress on that and sort of what your path is from an origination and a leverage perspective together? We can probably do that offline.
I think it’s a little complicated to do it online here.
But in general going forward we’re building our portfolio the portfolio should support as I said last call by the end of year on just normalized non-recurring basis at least $0.20 of AFFO.
During the interim kind of what I would call the first second periods there is a couple little things but they diminish and obviously the delta between the portfolio earning AFFO and gain or non-cash item will become smaller.
Okay.
And the stock process or at least the guidance is that with execution that you described on this call plus increasing the leverage that you described does that ultimate get you to that run rate? Yes.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
And we’re really not that far-off now.
Okay.
Is that helpful? Yeah.
That’s helpful.
All right.
Thank you Matthew.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi from EJF Capital.
Go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Hey Gabe.
Piggyback to the question that we just asked.
Are you guys saying that by the end of the year you expect kind of what I would call core earnings potential to be $0.20 to cover the dividend excluding one-time items so that there's no more book value erosion? Yes.
And we don't think as I said in my comment yes is the answer to first question.
And as I said in my comments I think in the meantime we don't expect book value to go down from where it really is.
You stay around the approximate same level because we are also selling assets to increase book value.
Got it.
What’s the timing for those asset sales? We’ve actually I mean on the call I mentioned one that that will be in the second quarter which is already booked is $5.25 million.
And then we have a few in the second quarter.
We’re very fortunate we actually have a lot of stuff on our book that have significant gain embedded in them and it’s just a matter of executing.
Got it.
And then one more question.
You may have mentioned this in the beginning of the call which I missed.
How much of the first quarter commercial real estate loans were closed towards the back end of the quarter or just timing? It was a little bit towards the back end of the quarter but I’m just looking here.
The bulk of it was in the middle of the quarter like around March 6th area.
Okay.
And then one more -- But I just wanted to mention.
We mentioned earlier that two loans of $30 million closed in April.
We’ve already -- just to give you a sense maybe David said this we’ve already closed probably how much of this quarter? We have probably close to $60 million so at $177 million for the year as of today.
Got it.
And then Dave Bryant mentioned I think you guys probably mentioned in the initial comments.
Another securitization in late summer is that kind of the way you’re tracking? But we don’t really talk about the timing or that but we will access that market at some point.
Right.
But based on kind of the ramp if you guys execute on the origination you should have enough warehouse to that point in commercial with new commercial loan origination to be at a ballpark to get something off arguably? Yeah.
Arguably yes.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Gabe Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Mills from JDM Capital Management.
Good Morning everybody.
Could you just comment on what is it that’s driving the rapid increase in originations this year? Is it much better cap rates and internal rate of returns that you are looking at out there or is it something else? It’s just a general market as many people on the marketplace.
Many people in the marketplace who participate in the marketplace know this is a great deal of desire on behalf of our to access this type of capital that’s more creative and more flexible.
Okay.
And then second question does it make sense to think about the share repurchase plan here given the yield on the stock and the fact that your real book value is probably considerably higher than your stated book value? It’s something that we always contemplate.
Right now we’re trading above book value and probably when you add in all the things around book values it’s not a great transaction.
If we feel like we can put money up especially leveraging the company.
Right now our capital that we access is relatively cheap.
It’s under 3% on our line and 6% on our senior notes in converts so it’s 8.5% on the preferred.
So we see the next year really moving forward and building a portfolio that can do well and provide tremendous yields for our investors.
But we’re always up if the stock is cheap meaning discounts and book value substantially we will be buyers.
And how high do you think or how higher you are comfortable with increasing your leverage say over the next couple of years? We are a normalize company.
I mean I always joke it is hard to be a financed company with a one-time leverage.
And no financed company in the country actually operates like that.
I would say normalized here.
You can see probably in the 2.5 to 3 times area which is a considerable leverage from where we are today.
And would you consider that a target say over the next 18 to 24 months? We don’t really target that.
It’s much more of a -- we are really into investment returns for our shareholders.
So if we can make a return as we have before many times at one-time leverage or zero times leverage to make mid-teens return.
A lot of times we’ll appreciate that return better than a two or three times leverage portfolio returns.
So it really depends what we’re investing in and what the returns are.
So we don’t really have a target area but I think normalized commercial real estate lending as you can see from the securitizations where people on the lines somewhere in the two to two and a half to three times area.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There are no further questions.
Great.
I want to really thank everybody for the support but I also want to thank Dave Bloom and his team Darryl Myrose and Kyle Geoghegan who really led a great team originating a tremendous amount of high-quality products as well as the rest of the Resource America team that led to really what I think is the start of a great trend for Resource Capital.
So we appreciate the support and we’ll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Q2 2014 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Darren and I am your event manager.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We’ll conduct a Q&amp;A session towards the end of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you.
And thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings conference call for the second quarter ended June 30 2014.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights from the quarter.
Adjusted funds from operations were $0.19 per share.
During the quarter we funded $181 million of new commercial real estate loans.
These loans will have future funding of $33 million thereby totaling $214 million of new loan commitments.
This is 138% increase as compared to $90 million in the same quarter last year and an 83% increase over our first quarter production.
On July 30 RSO successfully completed a $354 million commercial real estate securitization in which we issued term notes in the amount of $235 million to outside investors at a weighted average spread of 1.29% and on which we expect to earn a return of equity in excess of 15%.
On June 10 RSO completed the issuance of its new 8.625% Series C Preferred Stock demand was strong and we issued 4.8 million shares of our new Preferred Stock for net proceeds of over $116 million.
We of course paid a dividend of $0.20 for the quarter.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate; Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
In the second quarter we earned $0.19 of adjusted funds from operations closely matching our dividend of $0.20.
Our book value was $5.24 having earned $0.11 this quarter as compared to $0.05 earned in the similar quarter in 2013.
We are making progress bridging the gap between AFFO and net income.
We expect this gap to continue to close as we put proceeds from our perpetual preferred deal to work and continue to leverage our balance sheet to appropriate levels.
Our real estate team has done in my opinion a tremendous job of both growing the commercial real estate business and getting access to the securitization market a substantially lower spread than have been previously seen in this market.
During this quarter we closed commercial real estate loans with commitments of $214 million 83% increase over last quarter where we originated $170 million of loans.
Our ability to access the securitization markets and secure low rate term financing has enabled us to continue to generate solid midteens return on equity on our CRE lending.
Our most recent securitization closed last week and our weighted average cost of funds I said before with LIBOR + 129 basis points an excellent execution that reflects we believe the market positive view on our asset quality.
We are well on our way to completing our goal of $600 million to $700 million of commercial real estate loans originated for 2014 with almost $300 million funded in the first six months and future funding commitments on those loans of nearly $42 million.
We have funded almost $500 million during the 12 months ended June 30 2014 with future funding commitments of over $48 million.
This is tremendous growth and we plan on sequentially growing origination during the year.
As I stated on last quarter's conference call we anticipated using the investment cycle to better leverage our balance sheet to appropriate and reasonable levels.
Our access to the real estate securitization market for the second time in eight months gives us the ability to do so.
We are now a leader in the securitization market and have access to $450 million of financing after paying down our commercial real estate term facilities at the close of our second CRE CLO with a continued focus on future securitizations.
Since the end of the quarter the company has closed or has received the application in the process of closing seven commercial real estate loans totaling $185 million.
The company has an ongoing pipeline of new CRE loan opportunities in various stages of negotiation.
During the second quarter we reach the milestone of holding $1 billion portfolio of CRE loans 92% of which are whole loans.
During the second quarter of 2014 Resource Capital Corp.
made over $291 million of high -- high quality diversified investments in both commercial real estate and commercial finance.
Our commercial finance pipeline is focused on the middle market corporate segment and our origination machine is just getting going.
We have over $40 million in our pipeline and expect to fund at least $100 million more by the end of the year.
We have always invested a portion of our capital to the corporate loan space and we have successfully transitioned to the middle market lending emphasis.
Our middle market lending business called Northport Capital is growing and is deployed $160 million of capital.
We have a full team in place to grow this business meaningfully.
The company also made approximately $46 million of new investments during the second quarter of 2014 in one of the remaining leverage loan vehicle Apidos Cinco which had a return of equity of over 40% in 2013.
This redeployed all -- nearly all available capital before the reinvest period and closed in May taking advantage of the low cost of financing to provide significant returns to the shareholders.
We continue to seek opportunities to generate solid returns of quality credit related products to supplement our commercial real estate lending business.
As this portfolio grows it should add a boost to our earnings and our AFFO.
Our credit quality continues to be very solid.
Our real estate watch-list is shrinking.
We currently maintain the general reserve of $4 million.
This is in line with our recent charge-off history and reflects our strong focus on originating commercial real estate loans with strong credit profile.
Even as we are increasing origination capacity our primary focus remains credit quality.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.’s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance in excess of $1.3 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO's commercial mortgage portfolios comprised of 65 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.1 billion and is comprised of 92% self-originated whole loans 7% mezzanine loans and 1% B-notes.
The underlying collateral base continues to be spread across the major asset categories and geographically diverse markets with the portfolio breakdown of 38% multi-family 20% office 16% hotel 18% retail and 8% other such as mixed use deals.
During the second quarter of 2014 RSO closed new loans with commitments totaling approximately $214 million bringing total new loan origination for the first and second quarters of 2014 to $330.7 million.
On a trailing 12-month basis RSO's aggregate loan originations volume is $518.1 million.
Since the beginning of the third quarter we have closed new whole loans with commitments totaling $40.5 million bringing 2014 originations to-date to $371.2 million as compare to total annual productions for 2013 of $348.2 millions.
In addition we’re in the process of closing additional new loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $144.8 million provided that everything in process closes RSO's new production for 2014 will stand at $516 million that’s just one month into the third quarter.
So as Jonathan mentioned RSO is well on its way to meeting our target annual production of between $600 million and $700 million of new originations.
As we look at our forward pipeline it remains strong with new loan originations totaling $137.8 million under application and final negotiation and an additional $450 million of new lending opportunities either quoted or past preliminary screening and deep into underwriting.
With the closing last week of RSO 2014-CRE2 our second securitization our term lines of credit were cleared which provides us with $450 million of borrowing capacity that we will again utilize while we’re aggregating collateral for our next securitization.
In addition to financing new loan originations we will also utilize our lines of credit to leveraged approximate $44.4 million of future funding obligations that remain outstanding on the loans contributed to our recent securitization.
Optimal match funding of our loans and maximum returns on invested equity will be realized when we again access the commercial real estate securitization market which we anticipate doing more frequently based on the velocity of our new originations.
In addition although the average call protection of the loans and RSO 2014-CRE2 is a very healthy 16 months a new structural feature in our recent securitization is the ability to contribute funded future commitments in the event of prepayments of any other loans in the securitization during their initial term which in all the one case is three years.
This is an innovative structure that was introduced to the market for the first time in our securitization and is a benefit to both investors in the securitization and RSO by keeping the weighted average life of the deal as close to the stated term as possible.
We are seeing borrowers achieving their asset specific business plans on or often times ahead of pro forma.
So as we look at the timing of the drawdown of future funding commitments we anticipate the majority of these amounts will be drawn within the next nine to 12 months if not sooner.
We also note improving credit metrics across all asset classes represented in our commercial real estate portfolio.
The majority of the properties securing our loans are continuing to realize improved cash flow with borrowers plans for value creation well on track.
I’m once again pleased to report that the entire commercial real estate loan portfolio is performing with no defaults.
With that I'll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you Dave.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the second quarter of $0.20 per common share.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the quarter was $24 million or $0.19 per common share diluted.
Determining AFFO for the second quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that led to approximately $6.1 million and cash adjustments of $7 million of which $3.1 million comes from the recognition of cash gains on the extinguishment of debt and $3.9 million from realized gains on the sale of real estate.
We passed all of the interest coverage and over collateralization tests in our securitizations.
Each of these financing structures performed well and generated strong cash flow to us in Q2 2014.
We ended the quarter with approximately $320 million of real estate loan collateral posted on our term facilities.
And when we closed our second real estate securitization since late 2013 we were able to fully pay off our real estate term facilities thereby providing plenty of runway for our real estate loan pipeline that will fuel our expected growth.
In the second quarter 2014 we saw a net increase of $782 000 in provisions for loan losses.
There was $700 000 provision on the loan related to leasing fund that we took a preemptive write-down on $60 000 on real estate loans and $26 000 on residential mortgage loans held for investment which was offset by a small decrease in provisions of $5000 on bank loans.
We ended the period with $5.8 million in real estate allowances $668 000 in bank loan allowances and $700 000 allowance on other commercial finance loans.
Overall real estate credit has been excellent and I continue to characterize our bank loan portfolio credit as very benign.
Only one bank loan for $1.6 million is delinquent out of a portfolio of $765 million and again all of our real estate loans totaling $1 00 043 000 are current.
Our leverage stands at 1.7 times at June 30.
When we treat our TruPs issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 22 years as equity our leverage is 1.6 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we ended Q2 at 1.5 times levered on our entire portfolio which includes cash earmarked for new real estate loan originations.
Overall leverage came in at 1.7 times from for June 30th and the end of 2013.
We saw changes in the components of leverage.
Net borrowings from our real estate term facilities increased and that helped fund our real estate loan origination business.
We also had increased borrowings from consolidation of the Moselle CLO and to a lesser extent from borrowings for our mortgage-backed securities.
These increases to leverage were partially offset by pay downs and runoff of CLO and CRE debt.
In terms of equity we had $116 million of net proceeds from our Series C preferred stock issuance in June augmented by $22.3 million through our active market preferred stock program and $14.6 million from our common stock dividend reinvestment plan.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds from all three series of preferred stock is 8.76% and efficient cost of capital for RSO.
In terms of liquidity after paying the second quarter common and preferred stock dividends in late July we have $156.3 million of unrestricted cash at the end of July with several additional real estate loans and middle-market loan originations in process intended to invest this equity.
We ended June 30th with a GAAP book value per share of $5.24.
At June 30th our equity is allocated as follows commercial real estate loans and CMBS 68% commercial finance 31% and 1% in other investments.
With that my prepared remarks are completed and I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave and Dave.
With that before I open the call for questions I want to reiterate our guidance of approximately $0.40 of AFFO for the next six months.
We also reiterate our dividend guidance of $0.20 per quarter during 2014.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Can you provide some color on the types of loans you’re originating and can you give a sense for the range of yields and other credit metrics LTVs that service coverage ratios specifically how those trended over the past quarter? Sure.
Dave Bloom can handle that.
We are still making loans that have positive cash flow.
We are looking at debt service coverage going in sort of at a minimum of about 1 2.
I think at this point we’re still maintaining a weighted average starting coupon of around 5% as we blend all of our production together which is very consistent with where we've been and where we were in our last -- in our last securitization.
And what’s the range around that 5%? This is Jon.
I mean for multi-family lower levered that we love that rounds out a nice securitization it would be in mid 4% to 4.75%.
And what would be at the high end? The high end probably would be 6.5% to 7% and that would be in still relatively low levered that might be in retail hotel situation or office situation with lease-up component.
Okay.
Are you still seeing around 50% of your originations from existing borrowers? I would say that number probably is about a third only because -- it's a third to 50%.
It depends how you really look at it in terms of number of loans or total dollars.
Some of the bigger loans that we made recently have been to borrowers that are either new or have borrowed long time ago.
We didn’t see them repeat.
They may have borrowed in another form or another PE fund that they worked at.
Okay.
And just over the last couple of weeks have you seen any -- has any other volatility in the market led to higher loan yields or the loan market hasn’t had much reaction? No I wouldn’t say the loan market in this case I would say in the middle market lending corporate side we have seen a little bit of that but not in the real estate side.
Okay.
Additionally on the CLOs that you’re issuing is the typical duration about 16 months or which I think you cited or is it a little longer than that? No.
I apologize if I confused you with the comment.
The average call protection though is 16 months.
For the AAAs the weighted average life is 2.88 years.
But these loans -- term finance of these loans go five years then the bonds go five years.
Right.
But when they pay -- when loan repayments are received they pay off the senior securities of these structured deleverages? Right.
That’s right.
Although we have a very good mechanism as Dave Bloom and his team put into the deal which allows us to take future funding commitments and essentially put them back into the deal that we lever the transaction.
Okay.
Just lastly on the North Port and corporate lending opportunity how much flexibility is there under the REIT rules to grow those businesses? Can you talk about like how much capital you would expect to continue to allocate? We don’t really -- I mean it’s opportunistic at this point but we have a lot of flexibility if we want it.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next question is from the line of Lee Cooperman from Omega Advisors.
Thank you and good morning.
Jonathan east wards we of course paid a $0.20 dividend.
I don’t think that the dividend commitments for 2014 is meaningful in itself because of the history.
In 2009 we paid $1.15 2010 and ‘11 we paid $1.
We’re currently paying $0.80.
Our AFFO from recurring operations is less than dividend.
So I have a simple question.
When do you expect and do you expect income AFFO from recurring activities to cover distribution? Yes.
We’ve been right around that level.
The last two or three quarters $0.19 to $0.20.
We’d like to see it go higher because there always are a portion of our gains that always have been maybe 10% to 15% have always been from one-time activities that’s just the portion of our business.
So we’d like to see that higher to feel very comfortable with the dividend there.
Obviously we’re under incredible pressure from the market in terms of keeping with our desire to keep credit quality very high and not make silly loan while being aggressively deploying capital and focused on not maintaining that dividend.
I know but that’s my question based upon your internal budgets do you expect to see… We’re there now I mean we’re there at $0.19 to $0.20.
We expect to be there and try to grow that a little bit from here on AFFO.
So you believe that you’ll be able to maintain the distribution beyond 2014? That’s what we believe now but I’m always very cautious (indiscernible) yes.
And secondly if you could go through the arithmetic of raising capital at let say $5.50 a share take away your underwriting discount.
What could you do with that money today that would be accretive to the distribution as oppose to presenting a risk to the distribution? We have not done an offering for common stock.
We’ve been issuing preferred stock at 5% -- I mean at 8.5% which where we think we can make money given our securitization at -- that we just completed at a 15% ROE.
Our last securitization was north to 20%.
So we’ve been basically focused on preferred stock.
We did do a convertible convertible in the high sixes which we did nine month -- a year ago.
You all quit -- we have not done an offering.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV &amp; Company.
Thank you.
Hey thanks for taking my call.
Couple of quick questions.
The first is there is a gain on the sale of real estate was that from the Florida Resort property? It was…  Rick it was.
Okay.
And second for the second quarter in a row your capital allocation to commercial real estate has been around 70% which seems a little low to me isn’t it generally in the 80% to 85% range.
I mean I know you plan on being opportunistic but it seems like the allocation to real estate commercial real estate is somewhat low? Yes.
We will see that get back up to about 80% within the next six to nine months.
It just a matter of us we had $58 million of payoffs.
We had properties we sold so that number came down a little bit.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew Stolzar from Pyrrho Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Hi Matthew.
Can you walk us through the gain on extinguishment of debt? And how do you think about or sort of just what that gain was from and how we should think about those going-forward? That gain was from previous buybacks of bonds that went into GAAP income but was not taken into AFFOs as a gain that those gains are taken in AFFO and we actually receive the cash from the sales of bonds or from the repayment of loans underlying those securitization.
So it’s really -- it’s a little bit lumpy here and there but as these things speed up and the old securitizations are paid down we expected that to be probably an ongoing AFFO add back probably for the next couple of quarters.
Okay.
And in terms of your leverage where are you would you say in terms of the progress of levering off the balance sheet? And how do you ultimately look at running this from a leverage perspective? On the commercial real estate side we’re looking at probably somewhere in the 70% to 75% as where we’re comfortable which would imply a little less than three times.
On the corporate lending side its really more one-to-one business.
I think then on top of that we’re comfortable having another half a turn to or so of corporate leverage on top of that.
So when we think about sort of what your sources of capital will be going forward I guess how do you think about making that decision? I would look at it that we will probably be able to grow our balance sheet by another somewhat $600 million to $1 billion on the leverage standpoint.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
So I’d like to turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen for closing remarks.
Well we thank you very much for your support both this quarter and many of you over the years.
And we continue to make progress and we’re looking forward to reporting next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We’ll conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings conference call for the third quarter ended September 30 2014.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on Forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the titled Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of those forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights from the quarter.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO were $0.18 per share.
Book value per share was $5.21 as of September 30 2014.
Through October 31 2014 we have originated over $641 million of commercial real estate loans inclusive of future funding commitments an increase of approximately 150% $256 million of 2013 originations through 10/31 from last year.
In addition there are approximately $95 million of loans in process that are anticipated to close in the coming weeks which will bring total originations for 2014 to $735 million.
To help fuel this growth in loan originations on October 31 2014 we modified and upsized our Wells Fargo commercial real estate term facility to $400 million from $250 million and also extended the current term to August 2016 while maintaining two one year extensions at our option which carries the final maturity of the Wells Fargo facility to August of 2018.
On September 18 2014 our middle market lending group Northport Capital closed its syndicated credit facility with 125 million of commitments in place as of September 30 2014 which will help us increase volume and return on equity of that portfolio.
This business which is approximately one year old has originated $169 million of loans year-to-date.
Our increased originations helped increase our net interest income by 11% sequentially over the quarter ended June 30 2014 and 33% year-to-year over the quarter ended September 30 2013.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per share for the quarter.
We currently anticipate that 2015 AFFO will be approximately $0.70 to $0.80 per share.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
In the third quarter we earned $0.18 of AFFO closely matching our dividend of $0.20.
Our book value was $5.21 virtually unchanged from June 30 2014..
Our real estate team has done a tremendous job in both growing commercial real estate loan origination and accessing the securitization market at substantially lower spreads than have been previously seen in this market.
Our most recent securitization closed in July with a weighted average cost of funds at LIBOR plus 129 basis points.
Our ability to access the securitization market and secure low rate term financing has enabled us to continue to generate solid mid-teens returns on equity on our CRE lending.
We are well on our way to exceeding the high end of our 2014 guidance of $600 million to $700 million including commitments of commercial real estate loans closed in 2014.
That would reflect over 100% increase over 2013 originations and approximately 300% more than we originated in 2012.
we have accomplished this impressive growth without sacrificing credit quality which remains excellent as confirmed by our stellar securitization results.
As I mentioned earlier we have also seen a terrific launch of Northport Capital.
Just about a year ago we started to focus our commercial finance business on the middle market corporate segment.
In that period of time we have already originated almost $230 million of loans and expect to fund at least another $60 million by the end of the year and we have over $350 million in our pipeline.
While growth is important we are even more focused on maintaining credit quality and we have done so.
Our real estate watch list is shrinking.
We currently maintain a general reserve of $4 million.
This is in line with our recent [charge-off history 23%] on trailing three years and reflects our strong focus on originating commercial real estate loans with very strong credit profile.
Our liquidity remained strong.
We had approximately $163 million of unrestricted cash as of September 30.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate to review our real estate activities.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.’s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance in excess of $1.6 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
The underlying collateral base securing RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets with the portfolio breakdown of 41% multi-family 18% office 20% hotel 16% retail and 5% other such as mixed use properties.
The commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 70 individual loan positions with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.3 billion and is comprised of 94% self-originated whole loans 5% mezzanine loans and 1% B-notes.
During the third quarter of 2014 RSO closed new loans with commitments totaling $144.3 million bringing total new loan originations through the third quarter of 2014 to $475 million.
In addition in October alone we closed new loans with commitments totaling $166.7 million.
The aggregate balance of RSOs 2014 new loan originations through today is over $641 million inclusive of future funding commitments.
We’re also in the process of closing additional new loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $95 million and provided that everything in process closes RSO's new loan production activity through the first 10 months in 2014 will stand at $735 million as we begin November which has historically been our top month for loan production.
RSOs origination activity to date of $735 million compares to $348 million for all of 2013 which is 111% increase over that full year.
We are well on track to exceed the high range of our initial new loan origination guidance for 2014 which was between $600 million and $700 million.
As we look to our forward pipeline it remains strong and continues to grow.
We currently have approximately $500 million of new lending opportunities with applications issued and under negotiations quoted or through preliminary screening and in underwriting and structuring.
While we have seen significant growth in our new loan production we remain extremely focused on credit and property values and are holding to the strict valuation metrics sponsor experience asset quality and diversity standard that have been the hallmark of our traditional bridge lending program.
As Jonathan mentioned we continued to support the growth in our new loan originations.
Last Friday we closed an upsized extension and modification of our term financing facility with Wells Fargo Bank.
The size of the facility was increased from $250 million to $400 million the current term was extended through August of 2016 with two one year extensions at RSO’s option and our borrowing cost and debt yield requirements were reduced to reflect our cost of funds in our two securitizations and the market in general.
Our Wells Fargo term facility now has a fully extended maturity date in August 2018 which in addition to our $200 million term facility will Deutsche Bank provides RSO with $600 million of term facilities issued by our banking partners.
In addition to financing new loan originations we will also continue to utilize our lines of credit to leverage the approximate future funding obligations of our loans.
Optimal match funding of our loans and maximum returns on invested equity are realized when the commercial real estate – when we access the commercial real estate CLO market as we did in December of 2013 and again in July of this year.
Given the velocity of our new loan originations and the broad acceptance that RSO has gained as an issuer we anticipate accessing the CLO loan market more frequently.
As demand for our floating rate bridge product and other customized financing solutions continues to be robust we have been adding personnel and growing our long established national direct origination platform.
In addition we continue to look at adding other products to our platform as we continue to expand and look to be a total solution debt provider for our borrowers.
We continue to see improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of the properties securing our loans continuing to trend in a positive direction.
The upward performance of our portfolio is a daily reminder that validates our keen focus on the credit first and market centric approach we apply to our origination process.
We are very particular about the markets in which we lend and while additional markets continue to recover the debt and breadth of the given market sponsor experience and asset specific business plans all play heavily in our underwriting process.
In addition we are lending on lightly transitional properties.
We still continue to target properties with stabilized projections that stand up to rigorous stressed underwriting and verification day one cash flow coverage and meaningful sponsor equity.
We note improving credit metrics in all asset classes represented in our commercial loan portfolio.
The majority of the properties securing our loans are continuing to realize improved cash flow with borrowers’ plans for value creation well on track.
I’m once again pleased to report that the entire commercial real estate portfolio is performing with no defaults.
With that I'll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you.
Thank you Dave.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our CFO to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the third quarter of $0.20 per common share bringing the year-to-date total to $0.60 per share.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the quarter was $24.3 million or $0.18 per common share diluted.
In determining AFFO for the third quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that net to approximately $9.6 million and cash adjustments of $8.1 million.
Year-to-date our AFFO comes in at $0.57 per share diluted.
We passed all of the interest coverage and over collateralization tests in each of our securitizations that require such tests including two legacy real estate CDOs and three bank loan CLOs.
Please note our two most recent real estate securitizations are not subject to such tests.
Each of our financing structures performed well and generated strong cash flow to us in the third quarter.
We had one and expect a second legacy CLO to liquidate in Q4 and early 2015 respectively.
The capital returned to us will be recycled into newly underwritten loans.
We closed our latest real estate CLO in July and fully paid off our CRE term facilities and we ended Q3 with approximately $56 million of real estate loans on our term facilities.
The expansion of a real estate term facility from $250 million to $400 million was enhanced by a simultaneous rate reduction of approximately 25 basis points on most of this credit facility’s borrowings.
This increase in borrowing capacity will provide plenty of runway for our real estate loan pipeline as outlined by Dave Bloom and the rate reduction will help fuel our net interest income and cash flow from real estate operations.
In Q3 2014 we had a net increase of $1.4 million in provisions for loan losses.
There was $803 000 taken on real estate loans approximately $600 000 of which was for a legacy loan where the underlying collateral sold at a loss.
The balance was taken on a mezzanine position that has been previously impaired but remains current with respect to debt service.
We also took a 236 000 provision on a loan related to a leasing fund that we took a preemptive write-down on and provisions of $427 000 on bank loans.
We ended the period with $4 million in real estate allowances $464 000 in bank loan allowances and $936 000 on commercial finance loans.
Overall credit has been excellent and I continue to characterize our loan portfolio credit as very benign.
Two bank loans for $2.3 million are delinquent out of a portfolio of $712 million just 32 basis points and all of our 65 real estate loans totaling $1.1 billion are current.
Our leverage stands at 1.7 times at September 30 2014.
When we treat our TruPS issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 22 years as equity our leverage is 1.6 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we ended Q3 at 1.77 times on our entire real estate portfolio which includes cash earmarked for new real estate loan originations.
Although our leverage came in at 1.7 times overall for both September 30 and December 31 of last year we saw changes in the components of leverage.
Net borrowings increased from our new real estate securitizations and real estate term facilities that helped fund that loan origination business.
We also had increased borrowings from the consolidation of a new CLO our new middle market syndicated credit facility and to a lesser extent from borrowings for our CMBS and RMBS assets.
These increases to leverage were offset partially by pay downs and runoff of legacy CLO debt legacy real estate CDO debt and our 2013 real estate securitization.
In terms of equity we continue to put to work the $116.2 million of net proceeds from our preferred C offering in June.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on our three series of preferred stock is 8.75%.
Overall our weighted average cost of capital as of September 30 and all sources of capital including borrowings derivatives preferred and common stock came in at 6.69%.
In terms of liquidity after paying the third quarter common and preferred stock dividends in late October we have approximately $80 million of unrestricted cash as of October 31.
We also have approximately $90 million available to fund our middle market investments in the queue and after expanding the real estate origination facility to $400 million we have in excess of $470 million of financing available to fund a very [strong] pipeline of real estate loan originations that are in process.
We ended September 30 with GAAP book value $5.21 per share down slightly from $5.24 per share at June 30.
At September 30 our equity is allocated as follows commercial real estate loans and CMBS 61% commercial finance 38% and 1% in other investments.
I note that we expect our real estate and CMBS equity allocation to rebalance next year to a range of 70% to 75% which is our historical benchmark for that portfolio.
As we have had one of our legacy CLOs liquidated last week expect another to liquidate in December and another in 2015.
That continued with the continued ramp up of our real estate lending platform will increase our net equity allocated to that portfolio.
With that I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thanks Dave and thank you all.
As 2014 is winding up with two more months left we believe that it has been a year in which we have accomplished our principal business objectives.
First to grow our real estate debt origination business while also maintaining excellent credit quality thus generating a strong return on equity that provides our shareholders with a solid dividend and a total return.
We continue to seek opportunities to generate solid returns on quality credit related products to supplement our principal commercial real estate lending businesses.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
(Operator instructions) Please standby for the first question which comes from the line of Steve DeLaney of JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and thank you for taking the question.
Good morning Steve.
Jonathan I would like – thanks.
I would like to start on the Northport middle market lending activity.
On page 2 in the table you show your originations you also show loan sales of $16 million and educate me if you would we are familiar with like some of the SBA programs were you originate and then maybe sell off a guaranteed portion is that what is going on here can you help me understand just sort of the aspects of sales out of the middle market portfolio? Thanks.
Sure sure and there will be fewer and fewer sales as we go on.
Just in starting the business those are broadly syndicated loans mostly wider margin first liens as well as some second liens that we buy in the syndicated market and occasionally if prices rise or occasionally if we want to be defensive we will sell those loans and that is – all of that really refers to.
As we get bigger most of our origination is self originated direct loans and those will be held to maturity.
Got it and of course your new $125 million facility also helps in that regard too I would expect.
Yes absolutely Steve.
The bigger picture on Northport you guys had a great run with the syndicated bank loan market for many years as you are creating this business with your new operating team there is it your vision Jonathan that this operation will stay within RSO for the long term or is it possible that it will gain such scale that it would make sense for that to be a freestanding entity? Sure Steve.
Well first of all it is not so new.
We have been doing it with this team for well over a year now and the team is first-class by all regards.
Second we will see inventory as this thing grows if it needs its own identity and its own balance sheet it may do better on its own.
It also may do better within the context of a bigger specialty finance REIT.
Yes okay.
So we will still – We are certainly excited about it given – especially given what is going on in CLOs where we think the new rules as it takes place – as they take hold over the next 18 months to 2 years will create a lot of opportunity for these types of companies.
Well that is a great segue to my next question so you put the – you put your $125 million syndicated facility in on the middle market just like you have Wells supporting you on an interim basis for CRE is there and I think you may have answered it I was going to ask if there was a ABS or some type of securitization long-term take out for these middle market credits? I mean typically we are only going to these things 30% to 50%.
Okay.
So typically we will keep them on a line.
The line will grow as we grow and then eventually we will access for instance the longer term yield market.
Got it okay.
Just from a corporate – just from a corporate financing standpoint got you okay.
And then lastly thank you for the – you gave us some 2015 outlook for AFFO… Yes.
I am just curious if you can say anything about given the structure there the $0.70 to $0.80 is there anything that you can say about the board’s view with respect to the current $0.20 dividend rate? Not really but we will be providing dividend guidance in December as of as 2015 becomes even clearer.
Okay.
which is a 13.5% return on book value to about 15.2% return and both of which we think are very strong dividends.
That being said as everybody knows my inclination has always been to hand out what we earn – if AFFO is closer to $0.80 then it will be at the $0.80 level.
It will be closer to $0.70 – will be closer to $0.70.
That is great.
Jonathan thank you for the color.
Thank you Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi yes this is actually Ryan Tomasello for Jade.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hi Ryan.
Hi.
I was wondering if you guys could discuss the recent market volatility the competitive outlook and whether you have seen any spread widening or increasing yields and all in if you view this as an opportunity that RSO can take advantage of? I’m going to let Dave Bloom address that from the real estate standpoint.
The recent spread widening there was two weeks of fairly significant uncertainty not impacting the floating rate market as much.
We always get the best spread that we possibly can we are not in a position where because everything floats where we are going to adjust as rapidly but yes we did see a pullback from CMBS and we did see a tick-up in people coming to us based on that volatility things have settled down.
I think in the secondary market those – that ripple effect hasn’t really taken place yet.
But things appear to be a lot more stable that we are still seeing record transactions volumes and keeping our spread relatively high compared to peers.
I just might add to that that I would say our lending is really a very safe senior secured high quality property lending kind of lightly transactional therefore and with some size so we do compete against a couple of people but we have incredibly good relationships with borrowers where we been with them for five years ten years three years on five properties two properties one property etcetera.
So we are not – they are not necessarily nickel and dimming on us on the direct side so it's a very happy place to be.
At the same time we have had a lot of support and Dave Bloom and his team for their great relationship given with Wells Fargo and others because we did see rates on the Wells Fargo line come in about 25 basis points.
So that’s all and of course we were rewarded in the securitization market by having rates come in significantly from our first securitization or second securitization and I think we are going to continue to see that.
Okay great.
Thanks.
That’s really helpful.
And then switching gears in the past few periods you have reported some paper gains from the reissuance of debt that you bought back over the past few periods and I was wondering if you could give any color as far as how much more debt that there still is to be sold if how we should think about forecast any additional gains coming from that? Well you really should think about it in the terms of when we get repaid loans from that payback bonds that we bought in our securitization which we previously took in the GAAP income so they are in our net income.
They are in booked value.
They simply at that point recognized as cash gains.
So I don't know how much is slated for 2015 but I would assume coming there maybe $5 million yes – It's not a huge number.
It might not be a huge number next year unless there is an opportunity.
And is that – is that thinking already baked into your AFFO guidance or? Yes the natural payout so for instance the loan that in RREF CDO 2006 and we have bonds that we know will be paid off because of that loan and we get a certain amount of that’s baked in and I think it's relatively the minimalist number at this point.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for that color and then just one last question.
I know you guys walked through the increase in the provisions this quarter but I am just wondering if you can quickly touch on that again and would you guys expect an increase in the provision going forward due to any more assets that are on watch list? We don't really have that sort of expectation Ryan.
The one big adjustment this quarter was we had written down a loan last quarter that settled in Q3 and when it settled it settles for slightly less than we thought it would.
There were some cost of the property actually transacting and that collateral came in at about $600 000 less than we had expected.
We had no other such loans that are slated to be liquidated losses.
We did take some provisions on bank loans where one of the legacy sellers that liquidated and prices came in slightly less than on our books where – but we have no definite expectation there or are looking at loans where we are worried about collaterally.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Hey Ryan I just wanted to add just on the what’s included in 2015 we have not included any of our sales of what we call book builders things that we move out to the equity and we have funded a business or we have funded a specialty finance portfolio where we think we have gained.
So those are not embedded in those numbers so we expect those numbers to come through not only AFFO but also through net income.
But as of now they are not embedded in what I gave you.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Eckert of MLV.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking my call.
Just a quick question the allocation to the commercial real estate 61% things needed well below your targeted range and if I recall correctly that was 80% to 85% and now you are talking 70% to 75% for next year does this mark some kind of shift in the strategy or shift in thinking? No.
and I think that we are probably being pretty conservative being at the 70% to 75% I would think it would be closer to 80% plus and it just maybe the shift of when assets come on that are changing that number.
So it's not a shift in the strategy at all.
Okay.
So when do we – when can be expect to see it tilt back towards commercial real estate first quarter? I think it's already tilting and for instance in the first month of October we put on I think close to 160 of new real estate.
So – That’s actually been funded? Yes.
that’s actually been funded in October.
October is over.
Okay so it's funded back we just really had to do with the quarter end and where we ended but I would expect that number to be north of 75% with the hope in north of 80%.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Stolzar of Pyrrho Capital Management.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys great job on the origination front.
Thank you.
So it seems like given your robust origination levels it would be favorable to adjust your dividend payout ratios so that you have increased capital to fund this origination growth.
What are your thoughts on this? Well as I mentioned before Matthew I think the board will be looking at this over the next two months as we get closer in 2015 and if we need capital then that will be certainly part of the discussion.
Okay.
Because it seems like your 2015 AFFO guidance as you sort of alluded to you could still pay an attractive dividend relative to your peers while retaining some cash to grow.
That would be our take? Yes that’s correct.
Okay.
Great.
Well thank you guys.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] So we have no more questions at this time.
So I would now like to turn the call back over to Jonathan for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you very much and we really appreciate the support.
Let us know if you have any questions and we will be available.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 and Year-Ended December 31 2014 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Gem and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and year-ended December 31 2014.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the titled Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of those forward-looking statements.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights from the fourth quarter and year-ended December 31 2014.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO were $0.17 in the fourth quarter and $0.73 for the year per share diluted.
During calendar year 2014 we originated over $775 million in new commercial real estate loans representing record production levels since inception and an increase of approximately 123% year-over-year.
This exceeded the midpoint of our 2014 guidance of 600 million to 700 million by over 20%.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 we originated 302.3 million in new commercial real estate loans including future funding commitments our highest production level quarter on record.
To help fuel our growth in commercial real estate loan originations in October 2014 we increased our Wells Fargo commercial real estate term facility by 60% from $250 million to $400 million and extended the current term to August 2016 while maintaining two one-year extensions at our option which carries the final maturity of the facility to August of 2018.
In February 2015 we closed a $346 million commercial real estate securitization at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 190 basis points.
We expect to earn 17% to 19% on our invested equity over the life of this CLO.
This is our third securitization in 14 months through which we have financed just over $1 billion of mortgage assets.
Our middle market lending group Northport Capital originated almost $280 million of loans in 2014 including a record of $88 million of originations in the fourth quarter.
Book value per share was $5.07 as of December 31 2014.
We paid a dividend of $0.20 per share on January 28 2015.
We continued to anticipate that AFFO will be approximately $0.70 to $0.80 per share.
In my opinion this quarter would have been even better without the wild swings in the 10-year treasury which hurt our residential mortgage business to the tune of almost $0.04 per share.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate; Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations.
Our real estate team has done a tremendous job in my opinion in both growing commercial real estate loan originations and accessing the securitization market at substantially lower spreads than have been previously seen in this market.
We exceeded the high end of our 2014 guidance of 600 million to 700 million in commercial real estate loans closed in 2014 with over $777 million in loans.
That reflects over a 123% increase over 2013 originations and approximately 326% more than we originated in 2012.
We’ve accomplished this impressive growth without sacrificing credit quality which remains excellent as confirmed by our stellar securitization results.
Our increased originations helped increase our net interest income by 43% in comparison to the year-ended December 31 2013.
Our most recent securitization commercial real estate 2015 three closed this week with a weighted average cost of funds of LIBOR plus 190 basis points.
Our ability to access this securitization market and secure a low rate non-recourse term financing has enabled us to continue to generate solid high teens returns on equity on our commercial real estate lending.
In the last 14 months we have now securitized three deals with over $1 billion and issued 778 million of highly rated senior notes to a wide array of outside investors.
We expect the weighted average return around 17% to 19% on our retained equity in these transactions.
We look forward to structuring more deals and accessing the securitization market in the near future.
We’ve also seen a terrific launch of Northport Capital our middle market lending group.
Just over a year ago we started to focus our commercial finance business on the middle market corporate segment.
In that period of time we’ve already originated over $371 million of loans.
While growth is important we remain extremely focused on maintaining the credit quality and we have done so.
Our real estate’s watchlist is shrinking.
We currently maintain a general reserve of $4 million.
This is in line with our recent charge-off history 24 basis points on trailing three years and reflects our strong focus on originating commercial real estate loans with strong credit profiles.
Equity investments in our securities available for sale continued to benefit from sound credit fundamentals.
We saw our fair values on the securities move up from an unrealized loss of 3.1 million at the end of 2013 to an unrealized gain of 15.4 million this period an increase of 18.5 million over the year.
We expect to opportunistically harvest some of these unrealized gains in 2015.
Our liquidity remains strong.
We had approximately 80 million of unrestricted cash as of December 31 2014 and we issued 100 million of convertible notes senior notes in early January to fuel our growing investment portfolio in 2015.
As for 2015 we feel confident about our ability to generate AFFO of $0.70 to $0.80 and distribute at least $0.64 in dividends.
I believe that our origination machine is just warming up and will power us to new levels of profitability.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.’s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance in excess of $1.8 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
The underlying collateral base securing RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically diverse markets with the portfolio breakdown of 45% multi-family 20% office 16% hotel 15% retail and 4% other such as mixed use deals.
The commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 80 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.6 billion and is comprised of 95% self-originated whole loans 4% mezzanine loans and 1% B-notes.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 RSO closed new loans with commitments totaling $303 million bringing total new loan production for calendar year 2014 to $777 million both of which were record production for RSO.
In addition since the start of 2015 we have closed new loans with commitments totaling $112 million.
We are also in the process of closing additional new loans with an aggregate committed balance of $51 million.
Provided that everything in process closes RSO's new loan production activity for the first quarter of 2015 will total $163 million which would be a 39% increase from the first quarter of 2014.
RSO’s origination activity of $777 million for calendar year 2014 compares to $348 million in 2013 which represents a year-over-year increase of 123%.
Our origination pipeline remains full and continued to grow.
We currently have approximately $600 million of new lending opportunities with applications issued and under negotiation quoted or through preliminary screening and in underwriting and structuring.
Taking into account last year’s total new loan origination and considering loans already closed and in process this year as well as our pipeline of new loan opportunities we currently anticipate new loan originations for 2015 between $800 million and $1 billion.
We have experienced substantial growth in our new loan production and are again projecting increased volume for 2015.
That said we have continued to emphasize credit quality through the application of strict valuation in cash flow metrics as well as conservative assumptions.
Our core lending philosophy still places the ultimate premium on asset quality location and business plan as well as sponsor experience and financial strength.
In our origination efforts we are all-times mindful of concentration issues and strive to maintain a granular portfolio makeup with asset type geographic and sponsor diversity.
It is emblematic of this focus on diversification that the $777 million of new originations last year were comprised of 35 separate loans.
As Jonathan mentioned on February 6 we successfully priced RSO 2015-CRE3 our third CLO in 14 months which closed this past Tuesday February 24.
Starting with our first CLO in late December of 2013 we have financed over $1 billion of collateral through these transactions at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 1.74% and weighted average leverage of 77.24%.
RSO’s weighted average annual yield on the retained equity in our three CLOs is between 17% and 19%.
We will continue to utilize our $600 million term financing facilities to support the growth of our new loan originations and we plan to access the CLO market to optimally match-fund our assets on a regular basis.
We note improving credit metrics across all asset classes represented in our commercial real estate loan portfolio the majority of the properties securing our loans continuing to realize improved cash flow with borrowers’ plans for value creation well on track.
I am once again pleased to report the entire commercial real estate portfolio is performing with no defaults.
We continue to see improving metrics across all asset classes with the majority of the properties securing our loans continuing to trend in a positive direction.
The positive performance of our portfolio is a daily reminder that validates our deep focus on credit and structure as well as the selectively we apply to asset classes markets and sponsors in our origination process.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you.
Thanks Dave.
Now I’ll ask other Dave Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the fourth quarter of $0.20 per common share bringing the 2014 total to $0.80 per share.
Our AFFO for the quarter was 21.7 million or $0.17 per common share diluted.
In determining AFFO for the fourth quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that net to 8.2 million and cash adjustments of 9.9 million.
Our 2014 calendar year AFFO comes in at $0.73 per common share diluted.
In terms of income statement presentation I’d like to highlight that we reclassified several line items to other income expense in Q4.
When other income expense is added to total revenues we get to 32.5 million for the quarter and 125 million for the year.
We passed all of the interest coverage and over collateralization tests in all of our securitizations that require such tests including two legacy real estate CDOs and two remaining bank loan CLOs.
Please note our three most recent securitizations are not subject to such tests.
Each of these financing structures performed well and produced healthy cash flow to us in the fourth quarter.
We had one of our legacy CLOs liquidate in Q4 and another two will liquidate during 2015.
The capital from these liquidations will be recycled into newly underwritten loans.
The increase in borrowing capacity on our real estate term facility provides plenty of runway for the robust real estate loan pipeline and the correlated rate reduction of 25 basis points will help our net interest income and cash flow from real estate operations as we warehouse these loans.
We ended Q4 2014 with availability of 392 million on our real estate term facilities combined and 17 million on our CMBS term facility.
At the closing of our latest securitization a few days ago we repaid 214 million and now have available 512 million out of a total capacity of 600 million on our two real estate term facilities.
In the fourth quarter we had a net increase of 3.5 million in provisions for loan losses.
Most of this increase came from a $2.9 million charge that we took on bank loans related to the liquidation of a legacy CLO namely Apidos I.
This expense was essentially offset by realized gains of 3.2 million that are recorded elsewhere on the income statement.
So this is simply a matter of geography on the income statement not an ongoing credit concern.
We also took 293 000 of provisions on our two other legacy CLOs and $360 000 provision on a loan related to a leasing asset.
We ended the period with 4 million in real estate allowances and 569 000 in bank loan allowances.
Overall credit has been excellent and I categorize our loan portfolio credit as very benign.
Two bank loans 1.4 million are delinquent out of a portfolio of 323 million 41 basis points and all 78 of our real estate loans are current.
Of note for Q4 we were able to sell off two remaining real estate properties for gains of 3.2 million bringing 2014 gains to 6.1 million.
We also recorded gains in Q4 of about $1 million on a joint venture that we originally invested back in 2010 that targeted the stressed multi-family properties.
This was the final disposition in that joint venture which has performed very well for us.
Our leverage stands at 1.8x at December 31.
When we treat our TruPs issuances which have a remaining term of 22 years as equity our leverage is 1.7x.
With regard to real estate leverage specifically we ended the year at 1.77x on our entire portfolio including cash allocated to new real estate loan originations.
The growth of total assets on our balance sheet year-over-year from 2.2 billion to 2.7 billion reflects the impact of our focus on growing our interest income producing asset base.
We saw our total leverage slightly increase from 1.7x at December 31 2013 and we saw changes in the components of leverage which is correlated to the growth in our assets.
Net borrowings increased from our new real estate securitization and real estate term facilities.
That of course helped fund our loan origination business.
We also had increased borrowings for our CMBS and RMBS assets our new middle markets syndicated credit facility and to a lesser extent from CLO we consolidated.
These increases to leverage were offset partially by paydowns and runoff of legacy real estate debt and our 2013 real estate securitization.
In terms of equity capital we invested virtually all of the 116 million of net proceeds from our preferred C offering in June of last year into assets.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on the three series of preferred stock is 8.77%.
Overall our weighted average cost of capital as of the end of the year on all sources including borrowings derivatives preferred and common stock were 6.52%.
We ended the year with a GAAP book value of $5.07 down from $5.21 per share at September 30.
At December 31 our equity is allocated as follows.
Commercial real estate loans and CMBS 67% commercial finance 29% and 4% in other investments.
As we have previously stated we expect our real estate and CMBS equity allocation to rebalance in the coming year to a range of at least 70% to 75%.
This trend will continue in Q1 as one of our legacy CLO is liquidated in January returning 30 million to us.
This equity will be invested substantially in that healthy loan pipeline from our CRE lending platform.
Our emphasis on high quality credit combined with our conservative use of leverage has grown our balance sheet in a meaningful way in 2014 all while maintaining our core focus on providing attractive cash returns relative to book value to our shareholders.
We look forward to furthering the progress we made in 2014 and are off to a good start in 2015.
With that my formal remarks are completed and I’ll turn the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you.
Looking back on 2014 we believe that this has been a year in which we have accomplished our principal business objectives to grow our real estate originations successfully execute in the securitization market increase our middle market lending business while maintaining excellent credit quality thus generating the strong return on equity that provides our shareholders with a solid dividend and total return on the investment.
We continue to seek opportunities to generate solid returns on credit quality and quality credit related products to supplement our principal commercial real estate lending business and we are off to a good start thus far in 2015 to furthering this objective.
I think you will see net income increase and the dividend coverage materialize.
With that I will open the call for any questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hi Steve.
Hi Jon.
So the first quarter dividend we should assume that will be declared by the Board in mid-March and are we still looking at that range that you announced in early January of $0.16 to $0.18? Yes we are.
Okay very good.
And in your AFFO guidance for 2015 of 70 to 80 I’m just curious what LIBOR rate assumptions might be in there for the second half of the year if in fact the Fed starts raising rates here midyear? We don’t know exactly what they’ll do or how fast but I guess where I’m going is if you could comment on what your assumptions for rates are in your projections but also looking forward do you have any sense for – you’re really focusing on these senior floating rate loans with the match-funded CLO structures and I’m just curious if you could estimate how much your ROE might improve or your AFFO might improve if say LIBOR was 100 basis points higher than it sits today? I think that we would be making more money at that point a 100 basis points up.
I can’t really quantify that for you because there are loans that have LIBOR floors of 50 and 100 basis points so we wouldn’t really be making that much more on those loans.
But that being said we have a lot of loans that don’t have LIBOR floors so we would be making more loans on that.
My gut would be any kind of modest rate increase would be really not that – it wouldn’t affect us one way or another much.
If rates increased 200 basis points I think we’d be making more money as long as of course the economy remained robust and credit quality remained excellent the way it has been.
As far as assumptions we assume a fairly conservative approach of just using the curve the strip of LIBOR futures.
Got it so nothing too dramatic -- Yes.
That may not be realized is what I’m saying okay.
That’s very helpful comments about the floor.
And then as far as the bank loan portfolio I think we’re down to – these are the syndicated bank loans down to 330 million.
Can you give us a sense for modeling purposes maybe how we should be running that off over the next several quarters? Steve this is Dave.
I would say that about a third of that will runoff sort of midyear June is the likely date.
And then the balance of it probably – maybe a little less than the third maybe more like a 25% on the first point and then maybe 250 million or so will be around for a while.
That reinvestment period just ended this past May so that typically would runoff over say a three to four-year period almost ratably.
Okay.
So you’re still going to have some of that around benefiting earnings over the next couple of years? Yes but we would probably just put some detail on that – we would probably call that securitization I would say probably within the next 18 months.
At some point it will make sense Steve.
Yes maybe sooner.
Okay.
Well it’s helpful to know how to make the adjustment in midyear in June that’s helpful.
Thanks.
My last comment would be this.
You guys give great detail on your loan portfolio as far as both geography and industry.
You do have 27% of your loans in Texas and I was just curious if you can make any comments as far as submarkets and how well you feel your position relative to any weakness we might get in the energy industry affecting some Texas markets? Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks Steve.
We’ve done an extremely detailed analysis of our exposure in Texas and we have steered clear of sort of energy office buildings.
The majority of our investments there are value-add Class B multis that really cater to people with incomes between say $40 000 and $70 000 not energy sector workers.
We’ve gone through the office buildings we have in Dallas looked that we have no energy exposure there we feel extremely well insulated from what’s going on there.
We’ve also done a lot of other research study what the Dallas Fed had to say and really looked with energy where it is now even if it’s taking another leg down.
The overall economy we can talk about Houston but Texas in general is it’s extremely diverse.
Our assets I think are well insulated from that one industry.
Okay good to know and thanks for all the comments guys.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani KBW.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering if you could comment on the current investment environment and whether you saw any spread widening in the fourth quarter as a result of volatility if that created any unique opportunities or if you think generally loan spreads continue to tighten? I think just a general feeling is that in multi quality decent multi even kind of value-add B type stuff you continue to see spreads where they were or even slightly tighter.
In kind of some other asset classes I think you’re seeing kind of spread tightening stop a little bit but not much.
And on the corporate side you are seeing a little bit of widening for riskier assets.
Okay.
Thanks.
And can you comment or provide some color on the types of the loans originating right now but just a sense for the range of loan yields that you’ve write to and also how LTVs have trended say quarter-over-quarter? I think LTVs have stayed pretty much where they were or in some cases it’s again property specific.
I think in general – maybe Dave should comment on this.
Sure.
I mean looking at the tapes from our last two securitizations our weighted average LTVs are in the low 70s.
This place we feel very comfortable.
So we’ve really not been pushing leverage.
Again Jon said spreads are really kind of holding which we’re holding lines on spread and on structure.
I mean just to give you a sense like we’ve been between 4.5% and 6% plus depending on the asset type low 70s average LTV probably is very consistent today with where we were a year ago.
Okay great.
And are there sectors in the market that you feel are overheated or where you’re increasingly cautious? I would say we’re increasingly cautious on LTV in the multi area and we’re also – and we’ve always been this way and probably cautious on hotels.
Okay.
Just turning to the repurchase debt how much remaining embedded gains are there from what’s previously repurchased? Jade this is Dave Bryant.
I would peg that in the $40 million range probably a little bit more but at least 40 million.
And that would be the aggregate amount of gains that could be realized over say the next 12 to 18 months? Probably a little more term than that -- Probably in that line -- Three years let’s just say.
And just to remind you these are not gains these are gains for AFFO purposes where we get the cash but not gains for book value purposes.
Got it.
Thanks very much for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV &amp; Company.
Please proceed.
Thank you for taking my call.
First a couple of housekeeping items.
On the press release there’s whole loan production of 265.4 million and if I add 46.5 million to that in unfunded commitments I guess something like a little over $310 million not $302 million.
Is there something I’m missing in there? Yes part of that number includes 9.6 million of the funding of commitments which were originated prior to this year Rich.
Okay.
If you look at the footnote -- So the real number is 254 or something like that -- Yes.
Sorry I never got passed the first footnote.
No that’s okay Richard.
That put mezzanine [ph] down to the 302.
Okay.
Also while I have you on the line David Bloom you said that the execution on the latest CLO was LIBOR plus 190.
If I recall correctly the last one over the summer was LIBOR plus 130.
Was there something special about that summer issuance? Well you got to remember that each one has its own leverage so this was more levered than that one was.
So we put less equity in so you can’t compare one rate to the other rate.
Okay.
Just curious about what the difference was.
And back to David Bryant I know I’m sounding like I seem drunk here but this is like the fourth quarter in a row the allocations that CRE has fallen below 70% and I’m curious if I’m ever going to see it above 70 again.
Rich you will see it.
The fourth quarter was one where we put a lot of equity into the middle market because we had only a certain amount of debt capacity there.
And this will all shift around over the next couple of quarters.
Yes and just be patient with us.
Thank you for bringing it up.
Okay.
And I can go over this laundry list of items later with David but just curious -- I just wanted to point out that when the percentage of equity allocated to real estate it moved from about 61% at the end of Q3 to 67% at the end of Q4.
So that trend will continue into 2015.
Okay that’s encouraging.
Just of the many one-off items that stuck out at me was the tax benefit of 1.5 million considerably larger than that recorded in the previous two quarters.
Is there any one particular item that bumps that number up? What I would say Rich is that because we had losses in some of the taxable subsidiaries partly in the resi business that Jon highlighted and in some other areas that’s what created that income tax benefit that will realize as the businesses become profitable in future periods.
Okay.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Thanks Rich be well.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen for closing remarks.
We thank you very much and we look forward to reporting next quarter.
Be well.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2015 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Steve and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please proceed.
Thank you and thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings conference call for the first quarter ended March 31 2015.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Vice President of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights from the first quarter ended March 31 2015.
Adjusted funds from operations AFFO were $0.16 per share diluted.
Book value per share was $5 as of March 31 2015.
During the three months ended March 31 2015 we originated over $156 million in new commercial real estate loan commitments.
During the last 12 months we have originated $817.3 million of total loan commitments an increase of over 107% from the same period last year a new peak for our origination platform.
We funded $165.6 million of commercial real estate loans during the quarter an increase of approximately 48% over the same period last year and 122% over the same period in 2013.
In February 2015 we closed a $346.2 million commercial real estate securitization at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 190 basis points.
We expect to earn 17% to 19% on our invested equity over the life of the vehicle.
This is our third securitization in 14 months through which we have term financed just over $1 billion of mortgage assets.
Our middle market lending group Northport Capital originated almost $61 million of originations in the first quarter it also upsized its credit facility commitment from $125 million to $190 million.
We paid a dividend of $0.16 per share on April 28 2015.
We anticipate that 2015 AFFO will be approximately $0.70 per share.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate; Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
2015 had a great start.
Business is good.
Our originations are strong.
In fact they are strong as we have seen since inception of the company.
We reiterate our guidance of $0.70 of AFFO for the year and number three although we haven’t been active recently in the repurchase of our shares due to the capital needs of our originations we are now committed to repurchasing our shares at these low prices which represent 88% of stated book value.
We believe the company is in good shape and feel like our stock price is being discounted unjustly.
As we analyze our business our real estate team has done a tremendous job in both growing commercial real estate loan originations and accessing the securitization market at very favourable spreads.
We have originated over $870 million during the last 12 months which is a record production level for our team.
Over 107% increase in the same period the prior year.
We have accomplished this growth without sacrificing credit quality which remains excellent as confirmed by our stellar securitization results.
This origination growth helped increase our net interest income by 30% in comparison to the three months ended March 31 2014.
A deeper dive of the figures further evidences this growth our interest income on whole loans increased by 60% in comparison to the same period last year and we anticipate this trend to continue.
Our most recent securitization CRE 2015 three closed on February 24.
Our ability to access this securitization market at low rates non-recourse term financing with mid teens or high teens returns seems to be available.
Northport Capital our middle market lending platform originated over $269 million of loan commitments in 2014.
As a result of its successful growth and robust pipeline Northport recently increased its available credit facility by over 50%.
While growth is important we remain extremely focused on maintaining credit quality and we have done so.
Our real estate watch list is shrinking.
We currently maintain commercial real estate reserves of $4 million.
This is in line with our recent charge off history 18 basis point on trailing per year and reflects our strong focus on originating commercial real estate loans with strong credit profile.
Equity investments in our securities available for sale continue to benefit from sound credit fundamentals.
We directed our investors attention to a significant improvement to the fair values on our investment securities during 2014 and we're able to generate gains of $14.4 million on our securities and loans during Q1 2015.
We expect to continue opportunistically harvest some of these unrealized gains during the remainder of 2015.
Our liquidity remained strong.
We issued $100 million of convertible senior notes in early January to fuel our growing investment portfolio in 2015.
We recycled equity via increased leverage in our new CRE securitization and received $78 million in late February and liquidated a bank loan CLO which returned $29.8 million during this period.
We feel confident about our ability to generate AFFO of approximately $0.70 and distribute at least $0.64 in dividends.
I believe that our origination machine is just warming up and will power us to new levels of profitability.
In March of this year Resource Capital Corp.
marked its 10<sup>th </sup>year anniversary.
Shortly after our formation the United States went through one of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and a slow recovery thereafter.
Despite those headwinds we've originating over $3 billion in commercial real estate loans over $1 billion of which was originated in just the last 18 months.
We have distributed almost $580 million in dividend or $11.28 per share held since inception.
We are very proud that most of our core senior professional team has been here for mostly all of our history and they continue to do excellent work on behalf of our shareholders.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.'s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio for the current balance in excess of $1.83 billion in a pull that is both granular and diverse.
RSO's commercial and mortgage portfolio is comprised of 84 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.64 billion and is comprised of 95% self originated whole loans 4% mezzanine loans and 1% B notes.
The underlying collateral base securing RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically varied markets with a portfolio breakdown of 47% multifamily 20% office 15% hotel 13% retail and 5% other such as R&amp;D and mixed year's deals [ph].
During the first quarter of 2015 RSO closed new loans with commitments totaling $157 million which represents 48% increase over the same period last year.
Of more significance though those trailing 12-month production as of the end of the first quarter of 2015 was over $817 million which is a 107% increase over the trailing 12-month period as of the end of the first quarter of 2014 which is record loan origination volume for RSO and in line with our previous announced origination target for 2015 of between $800 million and $950 million.
In addition since the end of the first quarter we have closed new loans with commitments totaling approximately $115 million have another $76 million of new loans in the process of closing.
As of today just slightly over four months into 2015 RSO’s aggregate new loan production activity stands at approximately $350 million across 21 separate loans.
Our origination pipeline remains full and continues to grow while still remaining keenly focused on credit metrics and overall asset and sponsor quality and diversity.
We currently have approximately $300 million of new lending opportunities underwritten quoted and under negotiation with approximately $350 million of additional opportunities in active underwriting and structuring.
As I have said in previous calls while we have recognized peak production levels in our origination efforts and are again projecting increased volume for 2015 our primary focus remains as always on credit.
Our core lending philosophy still places the ultimate premium on asset quality location and business plan – with significant [ph] official sponsor experience and financial strength.
Through the application of strict valuation cash flow metrics and conservative growth and exit assumptions RSO continues to build a strong portfolio that has ready access to term financing through our financing facilities with our commercial banking partners as well as in the CRE CLO where RSO's deals have been met with broad acceptance.
On February 24 we successfully closed RSO 2015-CRE3 our third CRE CLO in 14 months.
With our first CLO that closed in late December of 2013 we have financed over $1.1 billion of collateral through these transactions at a weighted average cost LIBOR plus 174 and weighted average leverage of 77.24%.
We anticipate RSO’s weighted average annual yield and the retained equity in our three CLOs to be between 17% and 19%.
With regard to our CLOs RSO has voluntarily adopted a level of investor friendly reporting that goes well beyond trustee requirements and provides periodic reports that contain narrative business plan updates for each of the commercial mortgage loans in our term financing CLO vehicles.
These reports are posted on the trustee’s password protected website and investors who own bonds in these deals are notified of the postings and can track the progress of each asset in the deal.
The first reports for our 2013 CRE1 and 2014 CRE2 deals were posted on CTS link on April 20.
The CRE CLO market continues to build strength and RSO is committed to providing as much transparency as possible to investors and our CLO financing in all stages of the transaction through the implementation of what believe to be best practices for this market.
I am once again pleased to report that the entire commercial real estate loan portfolio is performing with no defaults.
The broader real estate recovery has taken hold and we remain optimistic about fundamentals but are cautiously on the lookout for markets that we feel are outpacing normal sustainable growth.
The positive performance of our portfolio is a daily reminder that validates the credit first approach to lending and selectivity we apply to markets asset classes and sponsors in our origination process.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you.
Thanks Dave.
Now I'll ask our other Dave Dave Bryant our CFO to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the first quarter and in March 31 2015 of $0.16 per common share matching our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the quarter of $21.3 million again $0.16 per common share diluted.
In determining AFFO for the first quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that netted to approximately $9 million and cash adjustments of $2.9 million.
We passed all the interest coverage and over collateralization tests in all of our securitizations that require such tests including our legacy real estate CDOs and remaining bank loan CLOs.
Our two most recent securitizations RCC 2014-CRE2 and RCC 2015-CRE3 are subject only to over collateralization tests which we have easily passed.
Each of these structured finance vehicles performed well and produced healthy cash flow to us in Q1 2015.
We had one of our bank loan CLOs liquidate in Q1 and in addition we expect another legacy bank loan CLO to liquidate in June of this year.
We anticipate recycling returned capital from each into newly underwritten loans.
As we discussed on the year end the recent rate reduction of 25 bps on our $400 million term facility with Wells Fargo together with the continued portfolio growth outlined by Dave Bloom augment our net interest income and cash flow from real estate operations.
As a reference point we increased the net interest income on our full real estate loan portfolio by $5.7 million or 72% for the 2015 quarter over the same period in 2014.
We ended Q1 with availability of $506 million on our real estate term facilities combined after the February paydown of $214 million on our CRE term facilities at the close of the most recent real estate securitization.
And we ended the period with $71 million on our CMBS has term facility.
This availability provides plenty of run way for the dynamic real estate loan pipeline.
The three most recent real estate securitizations have 700 million of senior notes issued to outside investors at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 175 a very attractive cost of capital to RSO.
In Q1 2015 we booked a provision for loan loss of $4 million.
This charge was predominantly a result of our increased provisions on our commercial finance portfolio $2.5 million of which was attributable to one possession in our middle market space.
Another $700 000 was attributable to possessions subsequently sold for credit reasons and $800 000 for reserves on the general loan portfolio.
We ended the period with $4 million in commercial real estate allowances and $3.2 million in commercial financial allowances.
With the loan exception of the one specific middle market position that began impaired our credit has been very good.
One bank loan where a mere $251 000 is delinquent out of a portfolio of $298 million all of our middle market loans are current and as Dave Bloom mentioned all 79 of our real estate loans totaling $1.5 billion are current.
We see that our corporate GNA is a bit lumpy this quarter which I'll explain in more detail in a moment.
First we do expect our 2015 corporate G&amp;A run rate to be in the $15.5 million to $16 million range comparable to the $15.3 million amount incurred in 2014.
What happened in Q1 is that we saw two nonrecurring charges totaling approximately $450 000 and several additional expenses of a similar amount based on the timing of their recognition versus the timing in 2014.
That is these expenses were billed later in 2014 and this year which skews the period-over-period comparison.
After adjusting Q1 by approximately $900 000 for these items the adjusted Q1 run rate matches the Q4 corporate overhead of $3.9 million.
Again after considering the timing and impact of these anomalies we expect the 2015 G&amp;A run rate to approximate the 2014 total of $15.3 million.
Our leverage stands at 2.1 times at March 31.
When we treat our TRUP [ph] issuances which have a remaining term of 21 years as equity our leverage is 1.9 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we end Q1 at 2.07 times on our entire real estate portfolio including cash earmarked for new real estate loan originations.
Our asset base grew from $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion and about half of that is attributable to a net increase in commercial real estate loans.
This growth reflects the impact of our focus on growing our interest income producing core asset base.
The three month leverage ratio increase to 2.1x from 1.8 is correlated directly to the growth in our total assets.
Net securitization borrowings increased primarily from our new real estate securitization offset by pay downs in our legacy CLO portfolio.
We also had increased borrowings from our 8% convertible notes issuance in January and to a lesser extent an increase in our middle market related syndicated credit facility.
In terms of equity capital on a book basis we were relatively static during the period.
Overall weighted average cost on net proceeds from the three series of preferred stock is 8.77% and overall our weighted average cost of capital from all sources was 5.72% as of March 31.
We ended the March quarter with cap book value $5 down from $5.07 at year end 2014.
At March 31 2015 we saw a mix shift in our equity as expected.
Our equity is now allocated as follows; commercial real estate assets of 72% up from 67% at year end 2014 commercial finance of 24% down from about 29% at year end 2014 and our other investments remained steady at about 4%.
We previously stated an intent to rebalanced the portfolio in 2015 to a minimum of 75% in commercial real estate and we’re well on our way toward that goal.
As legacy CLO investments are liquidated the equity will be reinvested substantially in the healthy real estate loan pipeline which will continue to increase our net equity allocated to that core business.
As Jon said our real estate lending platform is in high gear and remains centered on underwriting high quality credit combined with our conservative use of leverage.
We look forward to maintaining a generous yield to book returns for our investors while growing our balance sheet with the upmost focus on credit quality coupled with long-term match funded financing which is the strategic focus of our growth.
With that my remarks are completed and I'll hand the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave Bryant and then with that I will open the call for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question which comes from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi yes.
This is actually Ryan Tomasello on for Jade.
Thank you for taking my question.
Can you talk a bit more about the current competitive environment for us are you lending and where you see RSO having a competitive advantage and in what niches that would be? Sure Dave Bloom? Yes.
Thanks Jade did a oh right I'm sorry Ryan.
We certainly see a competitive environment but as Jonathan mentioned having been in business with essentially the same team facing the market for 10 years now we have a tremendous advantage in a process that is extremely well understood by borrowers and intermediaries alike.
And with markets that focus on certainty of close it provides in an invaluable edge.
There will always be outliers who will come in.
We oftentimes find them falling out and fine deals coming back to us.
But I think that it’s a competitive market but we are winning more than our share yes.
Great thanks and then have you seen any particular markets or property types where there has been a loosening of underwriting seen among peers? No I mean in general people are staying relatively in locked step.
I mean again there is there can be outliers in any given deal but it’s still a very relationship centric business and we continue to grow our relationship base every day.
Great thanks and then just one last question the gains on the debt extinguishment you know has still have been contributing to AFFO and I was wondering if you could provide any color on how much more gains do you expect to flow through that line over the next year? We've anticipated somewhere in the neighborhood of $5 million to $6 million total for the year Ryan.
There is a lot more behind that but more the bigger dollars will start to come as those legacy CDOs terminate and liquidate because a lot of these gains are at the bottom of the tranches.
But in terms of actually getting more this year probably close to double what we had for the full year in the first quarter.
Great thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
This is for David Bloom.
The funding commitments for the first quarter at least versus my estimate were a little light.
I mean I may have jumped in a little late but can you talk about your pipeline and what you are looking at for the full year? Sure thanks for the question.
We in the last call provided guidance for the year between $800 million and $800 million to $950 million.
And that’s what I have in my estimates.
Do you think that's still realistic? And we yes we absolutely do.
I mean the first quarter is generally a light quarter.
I think we did well in first quarter year-over-year but certainly as we continue into the year with deals in process and $116 million of deals closed in really April alone we are at about $350 million of total loan production for the year for four months and so we believe that we are pacing extremely well.
Okay and then the next question is for David Bryant.
You guided to 75% capital allocations to commercial real estate for the year when do you think you’ll get back to the 80% to 85% that you have targeted over time? I think that we have a chance of getting closer to that by the end of this year but as I said the minimum goal was 75% for this year.
We will certainly get there in 2015 and I would think the higher number in the early part of 2016.
Okay thank you very much.
There are no further questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks just following up again this is Ryan Tomasello on for Jade.
Can you give any color on where incremental yields were on commercial real estate originations during the quarter? As I look at our current tape where I think we are still kind of I mean we're still looking at spreads plus under [indiscernible].
I'm sorry what was that? We're still looking at spreads just a touch under 5%.
Great thanks.
I'm sorry that's without as Dave Bryant pointed out that's the pure spread that faces the borrower and does not include the accretion of the origination thing.
Got it thank you.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Jonathan for closing remarks.
Well thank you very much.
We greatly appreciate your support and we look forward to speaking with you on the next call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
Thank you very much.
You may now disconnect and have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2015 Resource Capital Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is [Luci] and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Please proceed.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings conference call for the second quarter ended June 30 2015.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
With that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
In looking at the quarter ended June 30 2015 we believe we are faced with contradiction.
Our core businesses continued to perform consistently with our expectation and remain well positioned for the future.
However we cannot ignore the significant pressure on our stock price which has certainly been a source of frustration for our shareholders and for us personally.
On top of that a legacy mezzanine loan that we purchased in 2007 one of the last two mezzanine positions in our portfolio deteriorated suddenly due to its exposure to Puerto Rico and we were forced to impair that asset.
We stopped investing in this type of loan in 2007 and the remaining mezzanine loan in our portfolio is a very good credit a $7 million position secured by property in New York City and we expected to pay off within the next 18 months.
This impairment causes our book value to decrease to $4.56 leaving us trading at approximately 78% of GAAP book value.
We are mightily undervalued and are very focused on improving our stock price and returns for our shareholders.
First and foremost we are implementing the one for four reverse stock split which the company believes will benefit shareholders by attracting a broader range of investors as a result of a higher per share stock price.
Second the Board has authorized a $50 million repurchase program for our securities which we will begin in the near future and focus on the common stock.
Third we will strategically review our business lines and contemplate alternative for our middle market corporate lending practice so that we can have a company that is predominantly real estate focused.
Fourth you will see substantial executive and director buying of shares post earnings.
Fifth we will keep on running our business and earning substantial adjusted funds from operations as we always have.
After discussing the quarter's operating results we are going to try to outline very clearly the current state of our businesses which we think are very good and our operating and strategic objective for the next year and how we might go about achieving them.
First our results our main business originating holding transitional commercial real estate whole loans performed very well this quarter.
We originated loans with commitments of 184.5 million which was 18% higher than the first quarter of this year.
A further look back shows exponential growth during the last 12 months we originated loans with commitment of $787.8 million which was 52% higher than the previous trailing 12 months period.
The diversity of asset classes geography and borrowers has been well received in the securitization market enabling us to term finance our new originations and achieve high teens ROE on them.
We continue to march forward to our previously disclosed guidance for commercial real estate originations of 800 million to 950 million for 2015.
Dave Bloom will comment more on this when he speaks.
Northport Capital our middle market corporate lending business originated almost $51 million of new loans this quarter.
Overall our net interest income was approximately $43.5 million year to date an increase of 16% from the same period a year ago.
AFFO or adjusted funds from operations were $0.15 but would have been $0.17 except for the impairment that we will discuss more a little later which I do not seek to dismiss.
Our businesses are performing well they are growing prudently lending money carefully financing their portfolios and generating very solid returns in newly generated assets.
Credit remains extremely benign outside of this loan.
In addition the vast majority of our loans are floating rate in nature.
Obviously a large and very disappointing element of our result this quarter was the loan loss reserve that we recognize on our position in a mezzanine loan whose borrower is an affiliate of one of the world's largest private equity firms.
The loan we impair was one where we had a small percentage of a subordinated mezzanine position in a complicated multi-tranche $2.8 billion transaction that financed luxury hotels.
Our investment was purchased in 2007 at a very well capitalized and committed borrower went through several restructurings over the years to provide runway for the borrower to complete its business plan and we expected to be paid off when that happens.
But the last three assets are in Puerto Rico.
The borrower's ability to favorably refinance its senior loans was impacted by economic and credit conditions in Puerto Rico and the new loan which closed in May meaningfully reduced the borrower's time to achieve its plan.
On such highly leveraged transaction even small changes in value can have a large impact on the subordinated tranches which unfortunately is where we were.
Accordingly we have fully reserved for it.
The good performance of our businesses - very solid - is exciting makes the poor performance of our stock all that more frustrating.
With that in mind let me address our operating and strategic objectives for the next year.
It's becoming clear to us that Resource Capital Corp.
story is not clear enough to others.
For instance when the interest rate sensitive stocks declined in anticipation of higher interest rates our stock tends to trade down with them.
However we have very little interest rate sensitivity.
Virtually our entire commercial real estate portfolio is floating rates.
And we regularly securitize and thus we are term financed.
Northport's entire portfolio is floating rate as well.
We've examined this and our analysis shows that increases in interest rates would actually serve to increase our ROE net income and AFFO.
Also another area that we've become to believe is unclear to some investors involves the differences between our main commercial real estate transitional loan origination business and Northport Capital which makes middle market corporate loans.
While both businesses are similar in so far that they make similar duration secured floating rate loans we recognize that Northport’s business is more typically found in a business development company or BDC.
We are very proud of the remarkable growth to scale that Northport has achieved in the two years since we launched it.
From a complete ground up creation it now has a portfolio of $331 million.
That very success creates one of the contradictions we seek to clarify.
Many people interested in BDCs and similar businesses do not necessarily focus on commercial mortgage REITs and many REIT investors are not attuned to understanding and following BDCs moreover as a REIT we are required to keep Northport in a taxable REIT subsidiary adding a layer of inefficiency.
Therefore we have been examining strategic alternatives regarding Northport.
Our Board and our management have been reviewing our options in this regard which include an IPO a spinoff keeping Northport as part of our own business selling a portion or all of Northport and other alternatives.
The Board will continue its analysis and we will let you know when we have come to any conclusion which we expect to happen during the fourth quarter.
As we look to all factors impacting our company our businesses the financial sector and the economy as a whole we still cannot understand our stock price we think it is too low.
The company would have been aggressive buyers during the second quarter for its own account but because we were considering some of the things that I have outlined today we were precluded from buying back our stock.
No more with the information we provided today we will be free to buyback our stock and we mean the company and several of our executives and the directors will be doing so.
Our Board of Directors have also approved a reverse stock split as we recognize that perception matters and a low stock price maybe perceived in a manner which we think is inconsistent with our current operation and prospects.
I'll now ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.'s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance in excess of $1.93 billion in a pool that remains both granular and diverse.
RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio is comprised of 88 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.74 billion and is comprised of 96% self-originated whole loans 3% mezzanine loans and 1% B notes.
The underlying collateral base securing RSO's commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically varied markets with a portfolio breakdown of 49% multifamily 20% office 15% retail 14% hotel and 2% other such as mixed used deals.
During the second quarter of 2015 RSO closed new loans with commitments totaling $185 million which was in line with our anticipated production targets.
Of more significance though RSO's trailing 12-month production as of the end of the second quarter of 2015 was approximately $788 million which is a 52% increase over the trailing 12-month period as of the end of the second quarter of 2014.
In addition since the end of the second quarter we have closed new loans with commitments totaling approximately $76 million and have another $132 million of new loans in the process of closing.
As of today just slightly over seven months into 2015 RSO’s aggregate new loan production activity stands at approximately $550 million across 27 separate loan positions.
Our origination pipeline remains full and continues to grow.
We currently have approximately $325 million of new lending opportunities underwritten quoted and in negotiation with a forward pipeline of opportunities under review of approximately $300 million in active underwriting and structuring.
Jonathan addressed the specific reserve that we took this quarter on a mezzanine loan that was part of a very large multi-tranche financing that included a $1.3 billion first mortgage and $625 million of mezzanine debt split into eight tranches many with multiple participants and over $830 million of borrower act equity into the transaction.
Its important note that this loan dates back to mid-2007 and was restructured and amended in 2012 and since that time interest was on an accrual basis so it has not contributed to our income since September of 2012 in any meaningful way.
Pursuant to the terms of the extension the loan has not some due nor is it in default that said in the ordinary course of closing our quarters we review all of our loan positions and after a review of the subject transaction the determination was made to impair the position in the current quarter as we have serious doubts about the ultimate collectability of the loan upon maturity.
That said markets can change suddenly and with almost a year until the loan matures no one can be absolutely certain about the ultimate resolution of this impaired loan.
By way of brief history RSO's commercial real estate business plan has always been to directly originate floating rate whole loans unlikely transitional properties across the country.
Having commenced operations in mid-2005 during the time that we were building out our national origination team we still recognized relative value in certain mezzanine loans and B note investments.
Markets were extremely liquid and the majority of these subject positions paid off in relatively short order that said we were always cognizant of the fact that multi-tranche debt transactions involved other lenders which results in a lack of unilateral control should a problem arise.
Our investments in to such transactions stopped over eight years ago.
In total since June of 2005 RSOs closed approximately $3.2 billion of loans and with another $132 million of new loans in process with a total in excess of $3.3 billion of commercial real estate lending activities to date.
During the period 2008 to 2010 RSO was not actively originating new loans due to the dislocation in the real estate and credit markets.
Since beginning to lend again in 2011 as various markets have recovered RSO has significantly increased loan production on a year-over-year basis for each subsequent year culminating in record production in 2014 with the origination of approximately $780 million of new whole loans across 35 separate positions.
Since 2011 RSO's aggregate self-originated whole loan production has been in excess of $1.9 billion and current loans and process brings this total to over 2.1 billion.
While last year saw a record production we have guided the market to between $800 million to $950 million of production for 2015 with approximately $550 million of new loan for production activity already we remain confident in our guidance for 2015 and with our long established CRE platform comprised of 15 professionals we are optimistic about maintaining loan production levels.
As I have described on previous calls we utilize our term financing facilities with our commercial banking partners to finance our loans while we aggregate portfolios that we ultimately term finance through the issuance of CRE CLOs on a regular basis.
In three CRE CLOs we've issued to date we have financed over $1.1 billion of loans at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 1.74% and a weighted average leverage of 77.24%.
RSO is an established issuer in the CRE CLO space and we've had in excess of 30 different accounts invest in the liabilities secured by our loan collateral.
Our core commercial mortgage platform consistently generates mid teen returns and as we continue to deploy equity from legacy businesses into our core business we anticipate continued meaningful growth in our net interest margin and ROE.
With that I'll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you.
Thank you Dave.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the second quarter ended June 30 2015 $0.16 per common share.
Our adjusted fund from operations or AFFO for the quarter of $20 million was $0.15 per common share.
In determining AFFO for the second quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that netted to approximately $47.3 million and cash adjustments of $3.8 million.
The non-cash adjustments include the 38.1 million mezzanine loan impairment discussed earlier.
We passed all of the interest coverage and overcollateralization tests in all of our securitizations that require such tests including our legacy real estate CDOs and one legacy bank CLO.
Our two most recent securitizations 2014-CRE2 and 2015-CRE3 are subject only to over collateralization tests which we had easily passed.
Each of these structured finance vehicles did very well and produced healthy cash flow to us in Q2 2015.
We had one of our legacy bank CLOs liquidate in Q2 as expected and we received 7.6 million and expect to receive additional 4.8 million in Q3.
This return of capital when combined with a Q1 CLO which liquidated brings legacy CLO cash returns to 42.2 million which we intend to deploy in our real estate lending platform and to a lesser extent our middle market loan platform.
We have commitments of 400 million on our commercial real estate term facility which of course we employee until we obtain longer term mass funding typically through a CLO securitization.
We saw the healthy new loan production by our commercial real estate originators continue in Q2 and this provides us with certain benefits.
First we have a strong track record with the credit quality of our self-originated commercial real estate loans.
Second we have weighted average LIBOR floors of 52 basis points on 1.4 billion of loans of which 1.2 billion have remaining terms of two to five years and weighted average floors of 36 basis points.
This means that incremental increases in LIBOR do not have a negative effect on earnings.
In fact as 30 day LIBOR increases by about 50 basis points the result becomes slightly accretive to our earnings.
We increased net interest income on our real estate loan portfolio by 3.5 million or 16% year-to-date in 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 which we attribute to our real estate origination platform and match funding strategy.
Note that this includes the $3 million interest write-off we took this period for the impaired loan.
When we add that back for comparative purposes we see an increase of 6.5 million or nearly 30%.
In Q2 2015 we booked provision of loan losses of 38.8 million.
Besides the CRE impairment discussed by Jonathan and Dave we saw net increases in our other portfolios of 740 000 during the period virtually all of this charge is the result of increased positions in our commercial finance portfolio which was added to a previously impaired position in our middle market space.
We end the period with 42.1 million commercial real estate loan allowances 4.2 million in commercial finance loan allowances.
In terms of delinquencies only two bank loans or 474 000 are delinquent out of a portfolio of 187 million and all but one of our middle market loans are current out of a portfolio of 331 million and none of our 88 CRE loans totaling 1.6 billion are delinquent.
We noted that our corporate G&amp;A was a bit lumpy last quarter and we saw a return to normalized levels in Q2.
Again we expect our 2015 corporate G&amp;A run rate to be in a $15.5 million to $16 million range comparable to the amount incurred in 2014.
Leverage remains flat at 2.1 times at June 30.
When we treat our TruPS issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 21 years as equity our leverage is 1.9 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we ended Q2 2015 at about 2.2 times on our entire real estate portfolio including cash earmarked for new real estate loan originations.
Overall our weighted average effective cost on net proceeds from all three series of preferred stock is 8.77% and our weighted average cost of capital from all sources was 6.05% as of June 30.
We ended June 30 with GAAP book value $4.56 down from $5 per share March 31st.
Of this decline of $0.31 per share is attributable to the impairment charge we recognized in the June quarter.
Our real estate lending platform is in high gear and remains centered on underwriting and originating high quality credit combined with conservative use of leverage.
We look forward to implementing a stock buyback plan in Q3 as we continue to trade well below book value.
We have relatively low leverage and are substantially match funded with non-recourse floating rate term financing on the vast majority of our platform.
Our use of recycled capital is helping us grow our balance sheet and improve earnings quality with the utmost focus on credit and when coupled with our long-term match funding financing is the focus of our long-term growth.
With that my remarks are completed and I'll hand the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave.
You've heard today the important message that the operations of the business have been solid credits good increasing originations strong credit quality again and the excellent securitization execution.
I hope that you've also heard that we recognize and appreciate how frustrated our investors have been with our stock performance.
We are large holders of the stock and completely share that frustration and are committed to do all we can.
We will be buying back our stock we will execute the reverse stock split we will work to accelerate the improvements to ROE that we know are coming as our remaining order credits repay and we will evaluate strategic alternatives to maximize the value of Northport and we'll keep focused on maximizing shareholder return.
Thank you.
And now we're available for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney of JMP Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning John.
I know this is a tough call for you guys and I appreciate you stepping up addressing the stock situation right upfront for us.
Thank you.
I'd like to clarify for starters not that -- we'll come back to those large mez loans but at March you were carrying 67.5 million of mez loans with the 38 million impaired suggesting maybe 29 million to 30 million of other mez loans.
Now I wanted to compare that you mentioned there was one remaining of 7 million in New York.
Can you just clarify what is left in the mez bucket beyond this hotel loan? Steve this is Dave let me reconcile that for you.
So you're right it was 67 less 38 gets you to about 29 about 13 paid off in Q2 on one position.
And another nine or nine and half paid off in July right after the quarter ended.
So that's why we're now left with little over seven from that one position.
That's helpful.
Appreciate you clarifying that and the characteristics of the remaining seven and look we recognize you guys have done an amazing job over last two or three years just shedding mez where you could and just getting back to the large problematic loan.
I guess it sounds like to me that it was a combination of both the structure the original loan structure and what became sort of an idiosyncratic situation with respect to what you ended up with as residual credit and that's really the only question I have is you started off with 13 loans and it sounds like you're ending up with three loans that are happen to be in Puerto Rico you used the term the last loans.
So help me understand as payoffs were made collateral was released; did you benefit from any of the pay down as these other 10 hotel properties were sold or did all that cash flow go to senior tranches.
Let's start there? To be clear the priority of payment is sequential so the senior loan is retired first and then tranches of mezzanine loan are retired in a specific order after that.
Yeah that's that's what was going through my mind.
So you end up going from it's almost like adverse selection.
The most liquid properties I guess go out first and as a subordinate investor you're kind of left with you're really lending on the weaker loans in the pool I guess and you acknowledge that that was the weakness in that structure and one reason why you guys ceased doing that business.
Okay so and just to be clear there is three hotels left and they're all in Puerto Rico.
Correct? There are now two they are all in Puerto Rico.
So let me suggest this and maybe other analysts will have questions after this but just a thought this is very complicated.
I think look there is a $0.31 hit to book that's all fine we know you're not in this business I think investors will like to make their own decision about the possibility of any type of recovery it can't hurt you any more now right? But a thought I had is -- because it is so detailed and involved I think people might want to know how many room keys what RevPAR would you at least consider and you don't have to answer this but I'm going to suggest that you consider putting in information piece together on the two loans or whatever you can disclose publicly and maybe put that out on an 8-K and then sophisticated real estate investors can kind of draw their own conclusions as to whether there is any possibility of a recovery or what would have to develop so just a suggestion there if I may.
This is Jonathan and thank you Steve and we will take that under consideration.
You are very welcome.
When you have these legacy situations John where you could end up in effect with a $40 million credit loss is there any reach back on prior incentive fees that may have been paid is there any adjustment to that for the benefit of shareholders how would you and the Board address that if this becomes a real loss? Well first of all we haven't unfortunately for us made very many incentive fees over the years.
So I don’t think there is many to reach back to but obviously when it becomes real loss it goes into that calculation.
Okay.
So going forward it would kind of create a [indiscernible]? Exactly.
Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then one final thing love everything you're doing with the buyback with insiders I think the reverse split will be helpful we've seen that help in a couple of other situations recently notably Chimera you didn't mention the dividend.
And I guess when we look at your liquidity situation the money that you want to put into the buyback can you make any comment as to how you view this stability of the dividend over the next two or three quarters? Sure this loan actually did not pay us very much it was a combination of mez and preferred equity in the restructure and therefore as you can see if you do the calculations on its effect on this quarter even writing off all the accrued that we wrote off it was like a $0.015.
So we don’t look like this as being any effect on our ability to come through with our plan which has a $0.16 dividend in it.
Just if I may not to say -- just to tell you a little bit.
Stock prices declined after reverse splits that's the history of the academic literature.
So you should be aware of that.
Second we make this sound like the stock market has treated us badly but we have to accept the fact that really we've done a bad job.
You disrespected your equity whenever the stock traded it's slightly above book value you flooded the market with additional equity.
And then you look at the trend of the dividend.
In 2007 the dividend was $0.41 a quarter then it went to $0.39 then it went to $0.30 then it went to $0.25 then it went to $0.20 then it went to $0.16.
So the market is just basically extrapolating the trend.
Now Steve asked you the question I guess you've answered it as far as you can see the dividend at the present level of $0.16 per quarter is secure.
So I would say given how optimistic you sound and how miss-valued the stock is in your opinion okay why with the $50 million representing 11% of the market cap why don't we resort to a Dutch auction tender to buy those shares in while they are cheap rather than stretching this out and buying it maybe when it goes back up which is what we don't want to do.
So explain to me if you're so frustrated you think the stock is so undervalued so miss-priced and $50 million is 11% of the market cap why don't we basically retire this dividend and retire the stock more quickly rather than slowly? Lee when you say retire this dividend what do you mean by that? Well when you're buying back a stock giving 18% you can't earn 18% on your money.
So buying back is anti-dilutive.
You're buying back at a discount to book value you're buying back stock at a return that you can't generate.
The problem you got yourself into is by having constant equity offerings and putting out more stock you had to -- the cash flow had to service more shares and it became very dilutive because the world we live in you can't earn 18% on your money.
So the reason I say it's anti-dilutive if you're sitting on $50 million in cash earning nothing I think that's what you earn these days right in an interest rate like 0.5% or 1% if you're lucky so take the $50 million and buy back a share that yields 18% it's accretive to the remaining shares.
And you come across very very -- I won't say optimistic but very positive on how undervalued you are and my question is why not buy the $50 million now when the stock is depressed? Because if you're right that the stock is depressed and undervalued you'll be buying at a higher price of six or 12 months from now.
I generally agree with your analysis and is something that we will take under consideration.
Actually I may jump around here now got two or three different questions.
The first is on the share repurchases.
I believe you had the existing share repurchase authorizations dates back to last September October and really very little of that was used despite the shares trading well below book value well below 90% 80% of book value.
Why is it that you're only getting aggressive now? First of all as I said -- thanks for the question first of all.
Two things one is as we went into the end of the year quarter of that year our businesses which have been growing dramatically and putting out high teens type ROEs had a need for a lot of capital and in fact we raised money around the convert at that time because we were so worried about the amount of origination we had.
So while we started buying back stock and wanted to buy back stock at 90% or 85% of book really when we put it out the stock was somewhere around 95% of book 90% of book and then it got lower; as it got lower we were actually investing in the business and immediately we felt like we needed the capital to support our businesses.
We now have pretty good liquidity although we do need capital to grow our businesses and obviously there is a different impact you can make buying something at 75% of book versus 90% of book we think is substantial to future owners of the stock.
Not just in terms of the dividend and retiring that but also in terms of the actual value of these assets.
I'm just thinking at current levels the shares have languished for a while now.
Buying back shares has to be your highest ROE type of investment? And that’s why we are very committed to it.
We were talking about the sustainability of the dividend.
Are you still pre-split are you still optimistic that you can reach $0.70 $0.71 $0.72 in AFFO per share this year.
Yes we were at $0.17 before riding off the entire accrued interest from that AFFO which was about $3 million bringing us to $0.15 plus.
So we would have been around $0.17 having because it didn’t add very much to this quarter and growing the question really there always is getting net income to get up to closer to the $0.15 level.
And we think that we can do that and if we feel like they we're on the path to do that then we will feel very good about the $0.16 dividend right now we feel like our -- this doesn’t change the path that we have been moving forward on.
And finally did I see anywhere in the press release the allocation between commercial real estate and commercial finance? Yes it's disclosed in there it is currently 68% real estate 29 commercial finance and 3% other.
We did get down a little bit this quarter in real estate.
But I see that as a temporary blimp because we have such a strong origination pipeline coming from Dave Bloom and his team.
Again that’s temporary and we'll move back up into the low 70s and we remain committed to growing that to a minimum of 75% and more as we implement some of the strategies that Jon talked about.
I was wondering if you can provide some color on the types of loans you're currently originating for the CRE book.
For example can you give a sense of the range of loan yields and LTVs currently and how those have trended over the past year? We are still focused on cash flow in loans slightly transitional.
If we look at a pool of our on our sort of most recent loans I think we have a kind of weighted average coupon over LIBOR of about 4.96%.
There are wins out there going with some pressure on pricing we have as of the end of the last quarter our analysis showed 40% of our borrowers were repeat borrowers there is a premium on closing.
And we're able to maintain our spreads.
Our LTV breaks at 75% or little less and our average loan remains sort of about 75%.
And for a three year term interest rate pre-tax required to one year extensions.
Yes that's some good color.
Given the volatility that we saw in the CMBS market in 2Q have you guys seen any spread widening in 2Q on the loans you've been making or are loan yields continuing to tighten? It's a very interesting dynamic.
I think that there is a ripple effect and the sort of term securitization market leads sort of spreads widening out.
You should put us in a fairly stark contrast to CMBS loans although we always look at that sort of on a daily basis where that breakeven is.
So we're sizing our loans right for either sale or take out which we sensitize every loan for regardless of what the sponsors says they're going to do.
But that considered there are banks with major shells that have the ability to select borrowers and have as much as 30 basis points on spread as they’ve seen sort of super senior on AAAs pricing at swaps 102 swaps 103.
It will ripple through that market and make its way through ours.
We have no interest in being involved in a race for the bottom without the right execution and the type of return.
Great thanks.
And then I guess moving on to some other questions just given the current level of the stock price can you talk about how management thinks about current capital availability and accessing the capital markets? Yes we really don’t need to access the capital markets for the next foreseeable future six months plus nine months something like that at the growth rate that we are at right now and you know we have lots of assets that were moving around and finding additional capital and tightening up our own balance sheet.
Okay thanks.
And then just finally overall can you just give your current view of where we are in the commercial real estate cycle and current -- the trajectory of current lending centers? I would say that we think there are people stretching a little bit but we haven't seen the kind of stretching that we saw for instance in 2005 to 2007 and we continue to find loans to do -- to make at our standard.
Thank you.
I just want to say we appreciate your support and all are frustrated as you are so hopefully we have much better things to report in three months.
Thank you we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Resource Capital Corp.
Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
You may begin.
Thank you.
And thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings conference call for the third quarter ended September 30 2015.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the Company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports on forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
Resource Capital’s core loan portfolio continued to perform well during the quarter ended September 30 2015.
But overall earnings and AFFO were negatively impacted by two non-core assets.
First our earnings in AFFO were dragged down by start-up loads and market turbulence experienced by our investment in Primary Capital our residential mortgage subsidiary.
We believe that these losses approximately $3 million for the quarter should decline in the fourth quarter as we should be back to breakeven by the first quarter of 2016.
Second our earnings and AFFO were impacted by a reversal of foreign exchange currency losses of $2.1 million that we experienced in the sale of piece of CLO equity.
Other than these charges the portfolio performed well.
For the third quarter AFFO was $0.44 per common share and GAAP net income was $0.21 per common share.
Without these charges it would have been -- it would have approximated $0.60.
Now some highlights we bought back almost $25 million of common stock since mid-August or close to 6% of the outstanding shares from the start date of the repurchase program.
Our book value was $17.95 per share slightly lower than it was at June 30th.
We originated approximately $148 million of commercial real estate loans and we ended the quarter with over $128 million of liquidity.
We believe that we have a huge opportunity in front of us as the stock continues to trade at approximately 75% of book value.
Based on the current situation we anticipate purchasing additional corporate stock both common and preferred during the remainder of 2015 and purchasing at least $40 million more in 2016.
Make no mistake; we think that our shares are deeply discounted.
While we have not and will not manage our Company for the stock price the stock price does create some new realities.
When we can utilize capital to repurchase our stock at a return on equity that exceeds the ROE we can achieve another investment we feel that we our compelled to repurchase as much as we can within confines of the security laws governing stock buybacks and also by business realities.
Accordingly we expect to complete the $50 million buyback that we have already announced.
And if our securities remain “on sale” we will initiate another buyback if authorized by our Board of Directors.
The reality is that we have a very good business.
The ROE that we can generate on newly originated commercial real estate transitional loan is in that mid to upper teens.
Our middle market corporate loan business Northport Capital generates almost 14% ROE before taxes.
These are good returns.
We must continue to originate loans in order to maintain our market presence and to meet the expectations of a loyal borrower base that has generated considerable repeat business.
However based on the realities of the higher ROE that we can get back -- that we can get by buying back stock we may slow that growth if we have the opportunity to buy our stock at large discounts to book value.
In that gain as we’ve discussed in the second quarter earnings call we do have some assets that are generating some optimal recurring returns on equity we are working to sell finance or otherwise improve those returns but we will not enter into a transaction that may improve current returns at the expense of total returns.
Last quarter we discussed Northport our middle market lender and our evaluation of how to proceed with what has been a good business that we grew from nothing over the last few years.
Northport has a portfolio of loans of about $345 million and about a $190 million of equities invested in it.
Northport’s primary competition for the loans it buys our business development corporations or BDCs.
At one point we had strongly considered spinning off Northport as a BDC to our shareholders which would have had significant tax benefit by moving the business out of the taxable REIT subsidiary.
However the current trading of BDCs is as poor as that of mortgage REITs and we have concluded that spinning off Northport would not benefit our shareholders.
We think with the current market volatility and discounts to book value of BDCs having two smaller entities would not enhance value and might impact liquidity.
Therefore that is currently not our plan.
We are evaluating alternatives on how to maximize value of Northport.
We believe that Northport has franchise value and we want to preserve that for all of our shareholders if at all possible.
With the goal of balancing continued development of our core business and maximizing ROE; we are carefully working on our budgets and plans for 2016 and are currently projecting at least $2.65 of AFFO and at least a $1.60 of GAAP net income.
That results in AFFO to FFO to book equity ratio of 15% GAAP net income to book equity is about 9%.
As we reduce our share counts these metrics grew measurably.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.’s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance in excess of $1.98 billion in a diverse and granular pool.
RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolios comprised of 91 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.8 billion and is comprised of 99% self-originated whole loans and 1% mezzanine and B notes.
The underlying collateral base securing RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically varied markets with the portfolio breakdown of 47% multifamily 19% office 16% hotel 16% retail and 2% other such as R&amp;D or mixed use deals.
During the third quarter of 2015 RSO closed new loans with commitments totaling $148 million.
And since the end of the third quarter we have closed new loans with commitments totaling approximately $117 million and have another $129 million of new loans in the process of closing.
As of today RSO’s aggregate new loan production activity for 2015 stands at approximately $735 million across 36 individual first mortgage loans.
Our origination pipeline remains full and continues to grow while we still remain keenly focused on credit metrics and overall market and sponsor quality and diversity.
We current have to over $300 million of new lending opportunities underwritten quoted and under negotiation with approximately $300 million of additional opportunities in active underwriting and structuring.
In August we successfully closed RSO 2015-CRE4 our fourth CRE CLO in 20 months.
Since RSO’s first CRE CLO in late December of 2013 we have term financed over $1.5 billion of collateral through these transaction at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 170 and weighted average leverage of 76%.
We anticipate RSO’s weighted average annual yield on retained equity in our CLOs to be between 15% and 18%.
In September we entered into a new $250 million term financing facility with Morgan Stanley which again demonstrated RSO’s ability to access flexible credit to support our continued growth.
The new credit facility brings our total capacity of term financing facilities to $650 million which will be utilized to aggregate collateral while we continually prepare to access the CRE CLO market on a regular basis as has been our practice.
Having recognized peak production levels in our origination efforts our primary focus remains as always on credit.
Our core lending philosophy still places the ultimate premium on asset quality location and business plans with a significant focus on sponsor experience and financial strength.
Through the application of strict valuation cash flow metrics and conservative growth and access assumptions RSO continues to build a strong portfolio and has ready access to term financing through our facilities with our commercial banking partners as well as in the CRE CLO market where RSO deals have been met with broad acceptance.
We remain cautiously optimistic about fundamentals but are constantly studying markets and asset classes and remain on the lookout from markets or transactions that we feel are outpacing normal sustainable growth.
This quarter I am again pleased to report the entire commercial real estate portfolio is performing with no defaults.
The positive performance of our portfolio is a daily reminder that validates the credit first approach to lending and selectivity we apply to markets asset classes and sponsors in our origination process.
With that I will turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you.
Thank you Dave.
Now I will ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the third quarter ended September 30 2015 $0.64 per common share.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the quarter $14.6 million was $0.44 per common share.
Determining AFFO for the third quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that netted to approximately $5.2 million and cash adjustments of $2.6 million.
The non-cash adjustments are primarily attributable to the amortization of deferred debt issuance costs and issuance discounts on our convertible notes.
All per share amounts stated take into account the one-for-four reverse stock split effective on August 31st as though were in full effect for all periods presented for comparison purposes.
During the period we closed RCC 2015-CRE4 our newish $312.9 million real estate securitization backed by 19 commercial mortgages which issued approximately $224 million of non-recourse floating rate notes at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 171 basis points.
In past all of the interest coverage and overcollateralization tests in each of our securitizations that require such tests including two legacy real estate CDOs and one remain back loan CLO.
Our three most recent securitizations are subject only to overcollateralization tests which we have passed.
Each of these structured vehicles did very well and produced healthy cash flow to us in Q3.
One of our legacy bank loan CLOs liquidated in Q2 from which we received an additional $5.2 million in Q3 which brought the total to $12.8 million return to us in 2015.
This CLO capital will combine with other recycled CLO capital from earlier in 2015 brings CLO cash return to $42.6 million which of course we are deploying into our real estate lending platform and to a lesser extent our middle market loan platform.
We now have capacity of $650 million on our real estate term facilities after we entered into a new $250 million facility with Morgan Stanley during the period.
We saw that new whole loan production in our -- from our commercial real estate originators continue in Q3 totaling $489 million year-to-date and $791 million on a trailing 12 months basis.
This is providing us with certain benefits.
First we have a strong track record with a credit quality on our originated real estate loans which comprise 99% of our current real estate loan portfolio.
Second we have weighted average LIBOR floors of 49 basis points on $1.5 billion of loans of which $1.3 billion were funded in our four most recent real estate securitizations that have remaining terms two to five years.
This means that incremental increases in LIBOR do not have materially negative effect on earnings.
In fact as LIBOR increases more than 50 basis points it becomes accretive to our earnings.
In Q3 we booked provisions for loan losses of $1 million.
Virtually all this charge is a result of increased provisions on our commercial finance and middle market areas which added to impaired positions on an oil [ph] credit held in each segment.
We ended the period with $42.1 million in commercial real estate allowances $1.1 million in commercial finance allowances and $4.1 million in middle market allowances.
In terms of delinquencies only two bank loans in our commercial finance segment or $474 000 is delinquent out of a portfolio of a $153 million about 31 basis points.
All but one of our middle market loans are current out of a portfolio of approximately $350 million and all 89 of our real estate loans totaling $1.7 billion are current with respect to debt service payments due.
Our leverage increased modestly to 2.2 times at September 30th.
When we treat our TruPS issuances which have a remaining term of approximately 21 years as equity our leverage is 2 times.
With regard to real estate leverage we ended Q3 at 2.5 times on our entire real estate portfolio including cash earmarked for new loan originations.
We continue to focus on getting our real estate equity allocation increased to over 75%.
Lastly our weighted average cost of capital from all sources of capital was 6.05% as of September 30th.
We ended September 30 2015 with GAAP book value per share of $17.95 down from $18.24 per share at June 30th.
We had earnings of $0.21 and saw an accretive benefit of $0.20 per share from our share repurchase plan which of course began during the third quarter.
Of course we paid dividends of $0.64 per share and lost $0.04 due to declines in securities that are mark-to-market and $0.02 from a combination of miscellaneous items.
Of note with respect to the securities buyback program we have funded nearly half of the $50 million authorized by the RSO Board.
In October and early November we have purchased over 720 000 common shares at a weighted average price of $13.05 and this additional activity is approximately $0.11 accretive to book value since September 30th.
Our real estate lending platform is in gear and remains centered on underwriting and originating high quality credit combined with a conservative use of leverage.
We look forward to further implementing the stock buyback plan in Q4 as we continue to trade below book value on common and preferred stock.
We have relatively low leverage are substantially match funded with non-recourse floating rate term financing on the vast majority of our lending platform.
Our selective use of recycled capital is helping us to modestly grow the real estate platform improve earnings quality and continue with the utmost on credit.
With that my formal remarks are completed.
And I hand the call back to Jonathan Cohen for questions.
Thank you Dave both Dave.
We remain as a company very focused and committed to our mission to achieve attractive prudently generated returns for our shareholders while preserving our capital.
Over the past 10 years we have earned a reputation as a dependable and responsible lender and have been able to pay strong distributions to our shareholders.
And with that I will open the call for any questions if there are any.
Hi this is actually Ryan Tomasello on for Jade.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was wondering if you could provide us with your thoughts on the current state of the commercial real estate cycle including your thoughts on current lending standards.
Have you been seeing any indication of lenders compromising on structure and/or term? Sure thanks Ryan.
This is Dave Bloom.
Yes we certainly see lenders out there who are fighting hard for deals and that’s -- we always fight hard for deals but have remained as I said keenly focused on overall metrics as it relates to specific assets markets in general and most importantly the sponsors and the equity going into the deals.
We have not given on structure.
And it’s sort of a breakdown of where our yields have been keeping our structure the same our spreads have remained relatively constant through our last two CLOs the February and August deals that we were at 497.
And we still continue to pace in a strong way.
We are getting our share.
We have been in the market for a long time and are as I said cautiously optimistic about fundamentals but there are just certain places we won’t adopt.
And then just moving on you spent a lot of time talking about the Board’s decision to continue the active share repurchases.
Can you just provide a bit more color on liquidity position of the Company and how management thinks about capital availability and access to the capital markets overall? I don’t think we have much access to the capital markets given that we would never sell stock here we’re a buyer of our stock a preferred stock and our common stock and we have access to the capital markets in terms of securitization where we just finished a very probably -- in our opinion the best execution on the Street in terms of liability management there.
But just in terms of liquidity we have decent liquidity we don’t have tremendous liquidity.
So we are continuing to buy back our shares.
We bought back $25 million already over the last few months.
We expect to buy more before the end of the year and continue to additional as I said into 2016 with up to at least $40 million more of repurchases.
A lot of that liquidity comes from order deals that are now paying off from 2008 ‘07 ‘09 ‘10 ‘12 even and instead of we reinvesting that into growing our portfolios tremendously as we have in the past we look at it that we’re going to modestly grow our commercial real estate book post runoff shrink other books or keep books at the same level of the portfolios that are there and any loose assets that are not achieving their correct ROEs will be sold and used to get a better ROE by buying back our shares.
So in combination of all those aspects we feel that we have a very good liquidity going into 2016 and we should be able to accomplish a lot in 2016 in terms of buyback in terms of our portfolios and our business and of course in terms of dividends.
And then just moving on I think a large question on everyone’s mind is the Board thoughts on the current dividend and moving forward into 2016.
What are the Board’s thoughts on the current dividend relative to underlying core earnings of the Company which would appear to be below your AFFO metric given the various add backs for gains and amortization of debt issuance costs that flow through that number any color would be helpful.
I can’t speak for the Board and I won’t.
I know they’re constantly thinking of this issue.
But the question really that looms I think in their mind is you are going to earn AFFO of over your dividend next year would you rather be paying a very large dividend or using more of that capital to buy back shares.
And I think that that’s the only question that’s how do we return that money to shareholders I think is only question that is on their mind.
And then just lastly digging into the 255 AFFO you cited for next year can you give a bit more detail on what you see as driving that as far as with the pace of originations primary capital mortgage coming profitable and any other drivers to that 255 number that you see? It’s actually 265 I think that -- and we actually think to be higher than that.
Just if you take the current quarter we were around $0.60 before the market sort of moved what we were doing at primary capital in terms of originations and mark-to-market stuff as well as that one foreign exchange loss the core portfolio is throwing off around $0.60 now.
And obviously as we buy back shares that number goes up.
And because the share cushion not created the book value but created earnings so you’re layering our shares.
And then we do have growth in our commercial real estate book we put on a lot of loans over the last quarter.
We expect to put on a lot of loans in this fourth quarter that we are scheduled to close.
We expect that modest I think 10% growth on a $1.7 billion or $1.8 billion portfolio next year.
So you just have a larger portfolio and we’re taking alder equity that’s invested in lower ROE situations and either buying back shares or which of course is immediately accretive or putting it back into commercial real estate at higher levels all that combined is what drives AFFO to where we expect it to be.
Actually the question is for Dave Bloom.
According to your press release you’ve originated a little less than $500 million in commercial real estate loans this year.
Are you still expecting to lend somewhere between $800 million and $950 million in total originations for 2016? Certainly there we’re close.
And based on the pipeline that we have we are very comfortable with that.
As we move forward we will evaluate.
But we are being selective; we are holding our credit standards playing our game.
So I think that to that extent not chasing the market continuing to trade on our repeat business our strong reputation in the market and just keeping the generally prudent lending standards.
Yes I still feel very comfortable that we’ll be there or close.
Richard this is Jonathan I want to remind that that’s up considerably over the last few years.
And of course during the period of low stock price here where we have optionality to allocate our capital to buyback among other things we’re looking at liquidity all the time.
So it’s not just about growth it’s about how can we make the best return here.
I understand that I am just trying to think from a modeling purpose.
Is it realistic to build in the expectation of at least approximately $300 million for the fourth quarter when you’ve averaged just a little over 160 for the first three? Well my experience has been the fourth quarter is seasonally the largest contributor to asset growth that’s what everyone wants to close on.
I think you’ll see a nice fourth quarter here.
Thank you.
It’s really not a question more just an observation.
I heard you comment Jonathan about dividend.
I just give you a word of advice people own the stock because of the dividend; the stock has been an enormous disappointment since the IPO.
The direction of the dividend has been kind of going consistently down.
So I would not be an aggressive buyer of the stock which you are if you thought that the dividend was not secure due to buy at a lower price or the only argument I would do for the buyback in the face of the dividend possibilities is that we thought we would liquidate the Company and return the book value to the shareholders.
So I want to make that clear.
My view is if you’re contemplating a dividend reduction I’ll be very cautious in buying back stock or should buy it cheaper.
If you thought there was a chance that the Board of Directors would vote to return the minor shareholders and liquidate the Company and buying back stock at discounted book value will make a lot of sense.
People own this because of the income flow.
Thank you Lee.
Hey Ryan.
Thanks guys for taking my follow-up.
A quick technical question as far as modeling purposes can you give any color on how much more of the debt extinguishment gains you might expect to be flowing through AFFO in the near-term? It’s really depending on how quickly loans pay-off and those deals on line Ryan but we do have a decent amount of that modeled in for next year.
And I think that when we give a little more color we typically -- Jon gave some minimal guidance in terms of GAAP net income and AFFO; he typically gave little more detail around that towards the end of the year.
I think we can provide that… We can only provide that at the end of December early January which we will do.
But I would just add that if my numbering had lot of gains at AFFO from extinguishment of debt it probably -- the AFFO number would have been north of $3 much north of $3.
So we don’t really include very much of that in the guidance that I am giving you.
I really don’t have any other remarks.
But thank you for joining the call.
And we appreciate your ongoing support during this rough period for Resource Capital.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Resource Capital Corp.
Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Jonathan Cohen President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the Resource Capital Corp.
earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31 2015.
I am Jonathan Cohen President and CEO of Resource Capital Corp.
Before I begin I would like to ask Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations to read the Safe Harbor Statement.
Thank you Jonathan.
When used in this conference call the words believes anticipates expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Although the company believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties are discussed in the company’s reports filed with the SEC including its reports in the forms 8-K 10-Q and 10-K and in particular Item 1A on the Form 10-K report under the title Risk Factors.
Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof.
The company undertakes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements.
Furthermore certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on this conference call.
Our presentations of this information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information presented in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles can be accessed through our filings with the SEC at www.sec.gov.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Jonathan.
Thank you Purvi.
First a few highlights from the fourth quarter and year ended December 31 2015.
Adjusted net income was $13.7 million for the three months ended December 31 2015 or $0.43 per share.
Normalized AFFO was $15.4 million or $0.49 per share for the quarter which I will discuss in more detail shortly.
Net interest income increased by $5.2 million or 23.9% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 and by $4.4 million or 19.7% compared to the third quarter of 2015.
Between August and December of 2015 we have bought back approximately 6% of our outstanding shares.
During 2015 we originated $744.2 million in new commercial real estate loans.
During the fourth quarter of 2015 we originated $255 million in new commercial real estate loans including future funding commitments.
Book value per share was $17.63 as of December 31 2015.
We paid common stock to cash dividends of $0.42 and $2.34 per share during the quarter in the year.
With those highlights out of the way I will now introduce my colleagues.
With me today are Dave Bloom Head of Real Estate; David Bryant our Chief Financial Officer; and Purvi Kamdar our Director of Investor Relations.
While our commercial real estate business continues to perform well we are cognizant of the overall market and the economic landscape in which we operate.
There are global economic headwinds that impact the United States but the real estate market remained in our opinion generally strong demand remains robust and our occupancy is at least in our portfolio remain high.
Our core real estate lending business is doing quite well.
Our real estate team has done a tremendous job both in growing commercial real estate loan originations and accessing term financing in various forms.
We have accomplished this impressive growth without sacrificing credit quality which remains excellent in this portfolio.
Our commercial real estate business help drive an increase in our net interest income by over 26% in comparison to the year ended December 31 2014.
Sequentially commercial real estate lending had total net interest income of $20 million for the fourth quarter a 19% increase over the third quarter of 2015.
We also grew assets under management in our commercial real estate loan portfolio by 23% year-over-year even after record payoffs of $381.6 million I meant to just say assets in our commercial real estate loan portfolio.
Our normalized AFFO was $0.49 and our adjusted net income was $0.43 for the fourth quarter $0.35 of our normalized AFFO was contributed by our CRE commercial real estate lending business adjusted net income in normalized AFFO reflect in our opinion a transparent look at what the quarters net income and AFFO would have been if not for certain items almost all of which were unrelated to our commercial real estate business and do not represent our expected ongoing operations.
As we have previously indicated we believe that Northport our middle market lending business is ultimately not optimized by being a REIT subsidiary.
The business continues to perform well and we are proud of the profitable growth to scale in just over 2 years.
We are continuing to explore several ways in which we can give it a better structure outside of REITs.
When we do that the capital currently allocated to Northport will be redeployed into our core commercial real estate business.
I will also note that our quarter and year were negatively impacted by PCM our residential mortgage business.
We have made substantial investment in growing PCM their footprint and upgrading its infrastructure.
These investments impacted our income and AFFO negatively.
However that is largely complete and we do expect PCM to be profitable in 2016.
Commercial real estate lending has always been the principal business of Resource Capital Corp.
As we move ahead we intend to emphasize that even more.
Ultimately we expect the capital currently allocated to non-real estate credit will be largely re-allocated to commercial real estate lending.
As primary capital achieve scale and profitability it will be well positioned to be viewed on its own.
We think that the clarity and focus will greatly benefit Resource Capital Corp.
and helps to narrow or eliminate the difference between actual value of the company and the value the market has placed on it.
Today we repurchased over $30 million of common stock since mid-August.
We reiterate our target of purchasing at least $40 million more of corporate securities during 2016.
Our book value is $17.63 per share.
We originated approximately $255 million of commercial real estate loans for the quarter $744 million for the year over $1.5 billion during the last two years and net growth of our commercial real estate loan portfolio of $872 million over the last two years.
We ended the quarter with $119 million of liquidity.
We remain steadfast in our commitment to maximizing shareholder value.
Please note that between dividends and share repurchases we returned over $102 million to our shareholders during 2015.
We are also reiterating our guidance of at least $2.65 per share of AFFO and at least [$1.60] [ph] per share of GAAP net income for 2016.
Now I will ask Dave Bloom to review our real estate activities.
Thanks very much Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.’s committed commercial mortgage and CMBS portfolio has a current balance in excess of $1.95 billion and a diverse and granular pool.
RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolios is comprised of 88 individual loans with an aggregate committed balance of approximately $1.8 billion and is comprised of 99% self-originated whole loans and 1% mezzanine loans.
The underlying collateral base securing RSO’s commercial mortgage portfolio continues to be spread across the major asset categories in geographically varied markets with a portfolio breakdown of 42% multifamily 21% office 19% retail 16% hotel and 2% other such as mixed use deals.
During 2015 RSO originated $744.2 million of new loans inclusive of future funding commitments across 36 separate loans.
In the fourth quarter we closed $255.1 million of new loans.
The vast majority of which were put under application by about October 1.
I note the third quarter cut off for the majority of our origination activity last year because by that time we noticed a significant mis-pricing of risk in the market and chose to take a much more measured approach to new loan originations as the market recalibrated.
Over the summer of 2015 the CMBS market following high yield and other credit markets began widening in an impactful way.
Despite real estate fundamentals remaining in general largely in check the CMBS market remains volatile and for any number of reasons spreads continue to increase.
To be very clear we do not originate loans that are intended for a CMBS exit but we do term finance our portfolio through lines of credit from our commercial banking partners as well as through the issuance of CRE CLOs.
While CRE CLOs are very different from CMBS transactions the AAA tranches of both types of deals are compared to each other and the dislocation in the CMBS market has impacted the CRE CLO market as well.
To date we have term financed approximately $1.5 billion of collateral and four separate CRE CLO transactions since December of 2013.
Our most recent transaction in this market RSO 2015-CRE4 closed in August of 2015 in the midst of the CMBS widening but pricing in line with our February 2015 transaction.
Our CRE CLOs have weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 170 and weighted average leverage of 76%.
It is also of note that RSO’s offerings into this market have been very well received with consistently market leading pricing and 38 different investors having participated in our offerings.
Regardless of the state of the CRE CLO market we have ample term financing capacity and very strong relationships with our commercial banking partners.
These term financing vehicles are not subject to general capital markets based margin calls or repricing risk.
RSO originates underwrites and asset managers all of our own loans and we are not dependent on the capital markets execution to match fund our collateral.
While we have confidence that are – that the CRE CLO market will again start to function efficiently until such time we will continue to originate new loans and term finance this loan production on our bank issue term financing facilities.
The general pullback in the commercial mortgage market has provided pricing power to well established national bridge lending platforms such as ours.
Since our conscious decision to pause in the fourth quarter of last year the commercial mortgage market has broadly reset.
While we have always remained keenly focused on credit and priced above many other market participants our locked in term financing facilities provide us with an opportunity to remain in the market and take advantage of wider spreads and even stricter assets specific metrics and structures.
We continue to see a great deal of new lending opportunities but are being extremely selective about new originations and are pacing to close the current quarter with between $60 million and $100 million of new loans while we anticipate ramping up as the year continues.
Having recognized peak production levels in our origination efforts over 2014 and 2015 we have grown our commercial mortgage portfolio and net interest margins generated there from in a meaningful way.
Our primary focus remains as always on credit.
Our core lending philosophy still places the ultimate premium on asset quality location and business plan with a significant focus on sponsor experience and financial strength.
This quarter I am again pleased to report that the entire commercial real estate loan portfolio is performing with no defaults.
The positive performance of our portfolio is a daily reminder that validates this - the credit first approach to our lending and the selectivity we apply to markets asset classes and sponsors in our origination process.
We remain cautiously optimistic about fundamentals that are constantly studying markets sand asset classes and remain on a lookout for markets and transactions that we feel are out passing normal sustainable growth.
With that I'll turn it back to Jonathan and rejoin you for Q&amp;A at the end of the call.
Thank you Mr.
Bloom.
Now I'll ask Dave Bryant our Chief Financial Officer to discuss our financials.
Thank you Jonathan.
Resource Capital Corp.
declared and paid a cash dividend for the fourth quarter a $0.42 per common share bringing the 2015 total to $2.34.
Our adjusted funds from operations or AFFO for the quarter was $11.3 million or $0.36 per share.
In determining AFFO for the fourth quarter there were several non-cash adjustments that netted to approximately $10.4 million and cash adjustments of 415 000.
Also as Jonathan mentioned we present a reconciliation from net income to adjusted net income to reflect what we perceive as our on going operating results.
The adjustments included provisions and mark-to-market adjustments in our middle market loan segment provisions and impairments in our legacy CLO and commercial finance segment loan indemnifications and aged receivables write-offs in our residential mortgage lending segment; and mark-to-market adjustments related to share-based compensation.
As a reminder all per share amounts stated take into account the one-for-four reverse stock split effective on August 31 as though were in effect for the full year in all periods presented.
We passed all of the interest coverage and over collateralization tests in each of our securitizations that require such tests including our two legacy real estate CDOs and one remaining bank loan CLO.
Our three most recent securitizations in real estate are subject only to two over collateralization tests which we have passed.
Each of these structured financial vehicles did very well and produced healthy cash flow to us in Q4.
We now have total capacity of 650 million on our real estate term facilities and availability of $425 million at December 31.
We saw a robust new home owned production from our origination team continue in Q4 again totaling $255 million for the 12 months for the quarter - I am sorry and $744 million on a trailing 12 months basis and $1.5 billion on a trailing 24 months basis.
And this core business is providing us with certain benefits.
First we have a strong track record with the credit quality on our originated commercial real estate loans which now comprise 99% of our current portfolio.
Second we have weighted average LIBOR floors of 0.36% on $1.5 billion of loans of which $1.1 billion are in our four real estate securitizations and have terms remaining of – ranging from 2 to 4 5 years and have a weighted average floor of 30 basis points.
This means that incremental increases in LIBOR do not have a negative effect on earnings and any potential new LIBOR increases are in fact accretive to earnings.
In Q4 we booked provisions for loan losses of 6.1 million.
Virtually all of this charge is a result of increased provisions on our commercial finance and middle market segments.
Its worth noting that our directly originated middle market loans have been performing well and the vast majority of this adjustment was related to secondary syndicated bank loan purchases.
And we ended the period with $41.8 million in commercial real estate loan allowances $1.7 million in commercial finance allowances and $3.9 million in middle market allowances.
In terms of delinquencies only one bank loan in our commercial finance segment $1.5 million is delinquent out of a portfolio of a $136 million.
All of our $379 million of middle market loans are current and as Bloom mentioned each of our 90 real estate loans are current with respect to debt service payment due.
Our leverage increased modestly to 2.3 times at December 31.
When we treat our trust [ph] issuances which have a remaining term of 21 years as equity our leverage is 2.1 times.
With regard specifically to real estate leverage we ended Q4 at 2.5 times on our entire portfolio which includes cash earmarked for new real estate loan originations.
We continue to focus on getting our real estate equity allocation increased to a minimum of 75%.
Overall weighted average cost of capital from all sources was 5.09% as of December 31.
We ended the December quarter with GAAP book value of $17.63 down from $17.95 per share at September 30.
We had earnings of $0.03 and saw an accretive benefit of $0.13 per share from our share repurchase plan.
We paid dividends of $0.42 per share and lost a $0.11 due to declines in securities mark-to-market and picked up $0.05 from marks on our interest rate hedges.
With respect to the securities buyback program we used nearly half of the $50 million authorized by the RSO Board by year end.
In January and February we have since purchased 356 000 common shares at a weighted average price of $11.27 and this early 2016 activity is approximately $0.07 accretive to book value since year end.
Our real estate lending platform remains centered on underwriting and originating high quality credit which is combined with conservative use of leverage.
We look forward to further implementing the stock buyback plan in 2016 as liquidity allows us and as we continue to trade well below book value on our common and preferred stock.
We had relatively low leverage and are substantially match funded with non-recourse floating rate term financing on the vast majority of our lending platform.
We anticipate recycling capital from our legacy real estate CDOs and one legacy bank loan CLO over the next 12 months each of which will provide a substantial cash on liquidation.
We can deploy these proceeds into higher return on equity investments as the CLOs have been substantially delevered.
Our selective use of this recycle capital is helping us to cautiously grow our real estate portfolio and improve core earnings quality with the utmost focus on credit.
With that my formal remarks are completed.
And I hand the call back to Jonathan Cohen.
Thank you Dave.
We understand that this is a turbulent market but we have always maintained a consistent focus on credit quality higher underwriting standards and vigilant management of our investments.
Our leverage remains low and we have an experienced and dedicated management team that will careful monitor our risk while continuing to look forward to stable dividends.
We thank you for your continued support.
And with that I will open the call to any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Your line is now open Yes hi.
I was wondering on the current environment if you can comment on how its impacting borrowers.
Are you seeing any increased urgency to lock in financing at available terms or are you seeing increased caution from borrowers? This is Dave Bloom.
It’s very interesting.
We are seeing borrowers certainly with increased urgency but realizing some of the market volatility and putting a premium on certainty of close which is I think one of the points that I've focused on before and certainly willing to pay for that.
So we are – I think we're net beneficiaries of urgency there and there are others who are I think pausing but as loans are coming due there are people who are steering clear of the CMBS market who will be – we're also looking at a number of very stable assets that are pricing at today's wider levels.
So I think that there is an active lending market and we continue to be very selective notwithstanding urgency put out by borrowers.
Can you quantify the magnitude to which you've adjusted pricing and also on the borrower side can you comment on the magnitude of any cap rate changes that you’ve underwritten or you think that borrowers are incorporating? I'd rather not comment on how much we've increased our spread because it’s sort of competitive world out there for the kind of assets that we're looking at and hopeful to lend against but I can say it’s definitely widening and I think you're seeing that across the whole market and – but I don’t feel comfortable talking about quantities at this point.
I am sorry what was the second part of your question? On cap rates are you either in the loans or doing underwriting higher cap rates and can you quantify the magnitude or are borrowers pricing in - maybe you can quantify the extent to which you think cap rates are rising? You know again it’s absolutely market specific I mean there is – we are – we always model deals for refinancing.
So what we're finding is that we are stressing cap rates in a fairly healthy way to make sure that we are absolutely covered to our attachment point.
And it’s certainly taken sponsors sometime to adjust to it but in loan sizing they are certainly in these situations cash and refinancings which is really what we would anticipate they continue for a while.
And I would also add just globally from our entire real estate business including our equity business that sellers not us in this case but anecdotally sellers that have not adjusted their cap rate that has not happened yet and it’s still a incredibly competitive marketplace.
Can you just comment on quarter-over-quarter commercial real estate credit quality in the portfolio? Are there any changes in perhaps your watch list just how did the risk rating migration change sequentially and are you seeing any evidence of a pickup in credit deterioration? Quite to the contrary the fourth quarter we saw record payoffs things are transacting.
It was a – the market was certainly choppy things you know we saw deals go at incredibly tight cap rates and so our watch list has remained exactly the same but we have seen sponsors continuing to hit their plans.
As we talk about isolated dislocation in the CMBS market there are other drivers there.
There is people trying to ramp risk – pools compliant with risk retention Reg A – AB2 issues that are starting to be anticipated.
Real estate fundamentals as we're seeing them like I said remain largely in-check and that record amount of payoffs we saw in Q4 bears that out.
Thanks.
And just one last one turning to profitability I think you guys introduced two new earnings metrics taking a step back if you were to factor in deferred financing costs a reasonable expectation for normalized loan losses what kind of core ROE do think that the book the overall portfolio or perhaps just the commercial real estate finance portfolio is generating after factoring in interest expense management fees and corporate expenses? Well I think that if you allocate the capital from our other businesses which we're in the process of doing over the commercial real estate you would get to that net income number but you know at least a [$1.60] [ph].
Okay.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Okay.
Because – Jade just to remind you the deferred financing is only in the AFFO not in the net income.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Steve Delaney of JMP Securities.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking the questions.
There were a number of what we hear you know credits holding up very well in the CRE book and there were a number of credit charges in the fourth quarter.
You outlined them pretty clearly in the press release and remarks.
I am a little confused and would ask for your help in understanding a little more about the nature of the $2.7 million provisions and impairments in commercial finance.
Could you help break that down as to exactly what types of assets those charges were against? Hello? Yes sorry about that.
I am sorry.
Steve? Yes David...
Hi how are you? Good.
So you're talking about the provision that we took in the quarter let me just give you a complete general breakdown of the total okay so that we don’t miss anything.
Okay.
He is talking about the… We had – okay so there was $6 million in the period about $4.7 million of that came from our middle market segment $3.9 million of which was an election to go to lower of cost or market on that portfolio.
And… Okay.
You went from cost to market it sounds like? Yes.
On most of that right so 3.9….
Yes.
Right and then there was $1 million charge in our legacy bank loan portfolio for one position that went bankrupt and into default and then there was approximately 300 000 of miscellaneous charges in a legacy leasing portfolio that we have.
Okay.
So trying to get to this $2.7 million in commercial finance.
I am missing something.
I got all the middle-market.
So I guess commercial finance the $2.7 million would have included the $1 million write off of a legacy bank loan right? Right.
And what else would have been in there? You mentioned something about legacy CLOs I think in your comments.
Yes.
There was a charge in our legacy CLOs but that’s what we just talked about in terms of the $1 million that was the one bank loan.
The one bank loan okay got it.
Yes.
And then there was a charge an impairment charge of $1.5 million that was taken on our legacy CLO management business.
So basically I think the 2.7 is combining those items.
Okay.
That helps.
That’s the piece we were missing right there.
Okay that’s helpful.
And what happened there was one of these CLOs that we manage was called early and the intangible asset had to be accelerated.
Okay.
Thank you David.
Okay.
So Jonathan we all know the primary capital residential investment I mean that business can be extremely profitable and we may see a little bit of a refinancing wave here in the first part of 2016.
I guess the issue with that is you are trying to present yourself primarily as a commercial real estate finance company and because that’s consolidated it does add a lot of noise.
And you're consolidated because you are assumed the majority owner? I mean any thoughts to add partners or restructure that in a way that you would be able to account for it on say the equity method which would leave you with an economic interest but would really clean up your financials any process as to where that’s going long term? Yes.
Thanks Steve.
As I said in my comments you know we think that it’s very close to standing on its own and I think I quote unquote said it will be well positioned to be viewed on its own.
I think that as we get into profit - back to profitability which were profitable about nine months ago we added a lot of people to expand operation markets changed a little bit we're getting back to that profitability as it is profitable which we expect in the next in fact it may have been profitability in February we don’t know.
But given the amount of activity it did.
But really on an ongoing basis starting in June we will be looking to have a viewed on its own and we don’t want to really expand on that much.
But you take from that what you will.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And my final thing I just – I look at the guidance for AFFO that you affirmed today of 265 and obviously that will probably be incrementally increasing quarter-to-quarter but it would average about $0.66 which is 35% higher than the normalized AFFO of 49 in the fourth quarter.
How do we think about that as far as the two or three key drivers that are going to cause AFFO to go up so much in 2016? I recognize… I am sorry you have to remember that in there is some cash gains on the extinguishment of debt that’s flowing through.
So I really wouldn’t look at it although it will be 265 it will be a number probably north of $2 but not 265 there will be other gains in there.
That will be… Okay… Although they'll go on for a while there will be – so we really look at it that we've keyed our dividend to be somewhere right around net income.
Okay.
That’s help Jonathan.
So while 265 is projected to be the number I think I'm hearing you say there are going to be some special recognitions that you would not consider normal so 66 average is not necessarily normal run rate? Yes and that’s why we set the dividend to $1.68.
We feel good about that it maintains book value while given us the ability to buy back our shares at a massive discount.
We should grow book value and increase profitability for those who remain in stock.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you for you comments.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Dan Altscher of FBR.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
And good morning everyone.
I just wanted to clarify just quickly on Steve's last question regarding the guidance the $1.60 and the $1.65 those guidance is based upon the new adjusted EPS and the normalized AFFO or are those kind of a stated? I am sorry that’s actually EPS.
So the $1.60 is the GAAP expected EPS? Yes that’s your just normal GAAP EPS.
The reason we normalize them you know we just felt like there were so many one time accounting issues that had come up that were hitting the business that were in core.
We wanted to be transparent to the marketplace.
It’s not our intent at this point to have that as a new metric that we use.
Okay.
So the adjusted is not a new metric it is just kind of a one-time we'll see it today but not going to see it next quarter? Exactly.
Unless there is something that we feel that we have to tell you about on the positive or the negative side so that you can get a sense of what our core recurring business is.
Got it.
Okay.
And similarly with the AFFO guidance of 265 that’s the stated AFFO and not the normalized which is also one of these things where we have a normalized number this quarter but we're not going see again next quarter? Exactly that’s a state - that’s the stated AFFO.
Okay.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Related to maybe something that you mentioned the PCM I think there was in the press or in the script something about Northport also about maybe achieving some shrinkage there or monetization or having a kind of wind down.
Can you just give us a little bit more color as to what that is or what you mean by that and when that might really be achieved? Yes I mean we are seeing that book shrink a little bit so far and it will in our plan shrink more over the next – what I'll call one month to six months you'll see a continued shrinkage of that book in our plan.
Okay.
And this is probably a question for Dave Bloom can you just give us an update on your tax exposure particularly the – I guess the multifamily that's out in Houston and if there are any updates on I guess at the property level on occupancy or rental growth or anything that’s relevant there? All the properties are performing above pro forma and we had a sale – one of the properties traded in the fourth quarter paying us minimum interest and an exit fee.
Again the type of properties that we've focused on there and certainly its held up has been in-fill value add B multi family deals where there is still significant demand for people to work in the medical center or in other service to businesses where we're certainly not talking about anything else but these are very nice communities and they are performing very well.
Okay.
Also maybe just an update you mentioned also in the script some commentary about the CMBS and CLO market.
I was wondering if you maybe had a sense I guess if the market is open to day to you if you wanted to go out there and issue a financing would that be open what maybe an all-in financing cost or maybe just the AAA's might look like right now? I would be reticent to speculate in that regard.
Its one of the ways that we finance our portfolio but we have a history dating back since inception to make sure that we have more than adequate term financing from banks as well.
So we're not dependent on capital markets.
There is – those who have gone have needed to go because they've had 364 [ph] day facilities that – and they were forced into the market.
As I said there is a correlation between AAAs in both.
We're seeing stability in CMBS AAAs which over time we'll give us a level.
But it’s clearly not a market that we feel forced to go out and test.
So okay.
So I guess maybe the running assumption right now is that we should be expecting to use the term facilities as a financing mechanism for now while the market remains kind of not there? Yes I would say we're wary of the market that we could always use the market if we wanted to use it but we don’t see any need and I would say that would be a good assumption probably we'll reevaluate that on an ongoing basis and it maybe different in March it maybe different in April May June July and we may see a good opportunity and take it.
Okay.
Great thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from George Bahamondes of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
May I just say G&amp;A jumped about $3 million quarter-over-quarter can you touch on why that happened? Sure.
We had some charges that took place in our residential mortgage lending segment that are in a sense non-recurring and they were in their reconciliation that we presented from net income to adjusted net income.
They totaled about $2.3 million and then we had some additional charges in our corporate portfolio that were seasonal and then some also some legal fees there as well a few hundred thousand.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Your line is now open Yes hi.
I was wondering if you could comment on REXI's having said its exploring strategic alternatives specifically as one option that management might consider a potential internalization transaction with RSO? Our lawyers have told us we cannot comment on that.
So I apologize about that but we are just not allowed.
But I will – I just want to make sure that the audiences knows that the impairments that we've had in dribs and drabs were all in the non-commercial real estate business and were isolated to small positions that unfortunately due to accounting or due to other reasons had to be marked down.
And Jade I am sorry I can't comment on that.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jennifer Huang of LDR Capital Management.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the questions.
We see that - and appreciate that you’ve been actively buying back the common shares just wanted to hear your thoughts on your - on what you would like to do with your preferreds which are also trading at pretty big discounts to your par value? Sure.
We actually didn’t buy back as much as we wanted to in the fourth quarter and that’s due to the fact that a lot of people set on loans that we had already committed to before the end of the year in all of our businesses that’s a traditional thing that happened.
And so you will see us as we said buying back $40 million – at least $40 million in our plan today subject to liquidity et cetera.
In corporate securities they may or may not include preferred stock.
We obviously feel like that is an area that is super cheap as well as our common stock.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Cohen for closing remarks.
Thank you very much for you support.
We really appreciate it.
And any questions that one might have please contact Purvi Kamdar at the company.
And we're happy to answer accordingly.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program.
And you may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.