Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Limited First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Malcolm Theobald.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stacy.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Joining me for today's call are Andrew Gould Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Paal Kibsgaard Chief Operating Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being hosted from Rio de Janeiro where the Schlumberger Limited board meeting is being held in our Brazil Research and Geoengineering Center.
Prior to Andrew's comments Simon will first review the quarter’s financial results and then Paul will provide an overview of the operational results and technical highlights.
Before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
First quarter EPS excluding charges was $0.71 per share.
This is a decrease of $0.14 sequentially and an increase of $0.09 compared to the same quarter of last year.
During the quarter we recorded $0.02 of charges relating to the continuing integration of Smith and Geoservices.
As we previously announced the quarter's results when compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 were adversely impacted by a number of events.
The events included severe weather in North America  and Australia political disturbances in the Middle East and North Africa and the absence of the Q4 early payout of the IPM gain share project in North America as well as the traditional surge in year-end multi-client software and other product sales.
These items more than accounted for the sequential decreases in the EPS.
This is the first quarter that we are reporting under our new group structure.
As a reminder our primary reporting was based on our 3 groups: Reservoir Characterization Drilling and Reservoir Production.
These 3 groups comprise what we will now refer to as Oilfield Services.
In addition we will report our Distribution business as a separate and distinct segment.
From now on when we refer to the results of our geographic areas it reflects the results of all 3 of the groups including the legacy Smith oilfield and M-I SWACO businesses.
Furthermore the results of WesternGeco are also now included in both the group and geographic results and are no longer reported separately.
This is a significant change from our prior quarters that I wanted to highlight.
It is also worth pointing out that the Distribution business which predominantly North-American  centric is not included in the geographic results.
All prior period amounts that I will mention have been restated to conform to our new structure.
Pretax operating income for Oilfield Services were $1.5 billion.
This represents $240 million decrease compared to the prior quarter.
Oilfield Services pretax operating margin fell 206 basis points to 17.9%.
International pretax operating margins were 16.5% for the quarter.
Again the previously mentioned events were the primary drivers underlying this performance.
From a group perspective Reservoir Characterization margin fell 606 basis points to 21%.
As the severe weather and political disturbances significantly hampered Wireline activity while the absence of the year-end WesternGeco market line and the SIS software sales negatively impacted margins on a sequential basis.
Margins for the Drilling group improved slightly to 14.6% on strong performances from IPM Well Construction activity and the number of the acquired Smith businesses in spite of the weather and geopolitical issues.
Reservoir Production margin decreased 145 basis points to 19.4% due to the absence of the year-end product sales in Artificial Lift and Completion and the Q4 early payout of the IPM gain share project as well as the impact of the weather in North America land.
Distribution contributed pretax operating income of $22 million.
On a geographic perspective North America had a very strong quarter driven by Well Services activity and pricing.
As a result margin increased by 32 basis points despite the absence of the Q4 IPM gain share payout which accounted for approximately 1.4 percentage points of margin last quarter and the lower multi-client sales.
Latin America margin increased by 78 basis points to 15.7% as the revenue mix strengthened.
Europe/CIS/Africa margin decreased by 6 percentage points to 12.5%.
This decrease largely reflect the impact of the political disturbances in Libya and Tunisia combined with a less favorable revenue mix in Russia and the seasonality effects in the North Sea.
Middle East and Asia margins dipped slightly by 145 basis points to 21.9%.
This decrease is almost entirely due to the political events in the area and the weather effects in Australia.
The impact of the year-end product and software sales also contributed to the decline.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges was 23.6% as compared to 23.1% in the fourth quarter.
We still expect the ETR for the full year to be in the mid-20s reflecting the planned mix of activity between North America and the rest of the world.
We ended the quarter with $4.2 billion of cash and investment and short-term debt of $2.2 billion.
Net debt was $4 billion at the end of the quarter as compared to $2.6 billion at the end of last quarter.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $844 million of stock repurchases and $769 million of CapEx.
During the quarter we repurchased 9.68 million shares at an average price of $87.18 per share.
Additionally we have now completed the refinancing of all of the long-term fixed-rate debt we assumed in the Smith transaction.
In this regard we repurchased $1.3 billion of notes during the quarter.
This refinancing will serve to reduce our interest expense going forward.
CapEx for all the Schlumberger is still expected to approach $4 billion in 2011.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Schlumberger first quarter revenue of $8.12 billion decreased 4% sequentially but increased 45% year-on-year.
The impacts of the geopolitical events in North Africa and the Middle East as well as severe weather in the U.S.
and Australia impacted all 3 product groups and represented around half of the sequential decrease in total Oilfield Services revenue.
Looking at the product groups Reservoir Characterization sequential revenue was severely impacted by the geopolitical events  at WesternGeco Q-Land Testing Services and our Wireline activity the most.
In addition to this WesternGeco revenue decreased following the fourth quarter surge and multi-client sales in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico even though revenue increased in Marine due to a more favorable activity mix.
SIS revenues fell sharply in all areas from seasonally lower software sales.
Casting revenue also fell due to less product sales lower activity in Latin America and East Asia and due to the winter slowdown in Russia.
Wireline revenue was flat sequentially as strong winter activity in Canada offset the impact of the geopolitical and weather events.
For the Drilling group the sequential drop in revenue was primarily caused by the geopolitical events and excluding this impact revenue actually increased for the group.
IPM Well Construction revenue increased on strong activity growth in Iraq Mexico and Russia.
Drilling and Measurements revenue decreased from lower activity and pricing in Europe CIS and Africa and the completion of offshore exploration project in Australia Papua New Guinea but this was partly offset by the return of some deep water work in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and by an increase in activity in Latin America and Russia.
M-I SWACO show continued strong activity in North America but overall revenue decreased due to seasonally lower product sales the weather in Australia and delayed projects in Europe CIS and Africa.
In Reservoir Production revenue fell sequentially largely due to the impact of the geopolitical events in North Africa and the Middle East and due to severe weather in the U.S.
and in Australia.
Excluding these impacts the production group revenue increased as higher pricing and strong demand for Well Services technologies in North America more than offset the IPM gain share payout in North America from the prior quarter and the seasonally lower product sales in Artificial Lift and Completion Systems.
From a geographical perspective the Europe/CIS/Africa revenues decreased sequentially as a result of the political unrest in North Africa a less favorable revenue mix lower software sales in the North Sea GeoMarkets and seasonally lower activity in Russia.
Middle East and Asia revenue was lower as increasing IPM activity in Iraq and shale gas activity in India were insufficient to offset the impact of geopolitical events in the Middle East seasonally lower software and product sales and weather-related slowdown in Australia.
In North America excellent growth in pricing utilization and activity in our Well Services product line resulted in double-digit sequential revenue growth which fully offset lower WesternGeco multi-client sales the non-recurrence of the IPM gain share payout and the impact of weather-related slowdown on land in the U.S.
In Latin America strong growth in WesternGeco and M-I SWACO activity in the Brazil GeoMarket balanced lower offshore activity and lower software sales in the Mexico and Central America GeoMarket.
Looking at some of the highlights of the quarter I would like to start off with WesternGeco where a number of contract awards in Marine emphasize the success of new technology both in acquisitions and in processing.
Market take off of Coil Shooting acquisition with successful completion of the survey offshore Brazil and the award of a new Coil survey in Angola were particularly notable.
The opening of the Brazil Research and Geoengineering Center in Brazil will be key to the processing of the Brazil data while centers such as the WesternGeco GeoSolutions center in Jakarta will underline other contracts that have recently been awarded.
For the growth in exploration activity to come WesternGeco is well placed through technology and footprint to make further progress in the coming quarters.
In the Drilling group we continued to make significant progress in terms of integration and synergies between Smith and Schlumberger products and services to the point that we now see the transaction being neutral on an earnings per share basis in Q2 2011 moving up from our previous estimate of H2 2011.
In addition to revenue synergies related to our global footprint as well as our IPM and D&amp;M businesses we are also starting to see the first examples of revenue synergies related to new product development.
As a result Smith Bits continues to perform very well keeping its leadership position in the  roller-cone market while at the same time dramatically improving the PBT  market share both in international and North American markets.
This position is further strengthened by the introduction of the new Spear bits that's bringing superior performance to our customers operating any unconventional shale basins.
We have also recently introduced another new bit based on our unique single-copper technology developed by our nominal drill division in Utah which has shown up to 80% improvement in drilling rates as well significant reductions in shock and vibration.
At our Investor Conference in February we discussed the new HiWAY fracture stimulation technology and this service continues to see very rapid growth.
Total job count is now approaching 1 000 with 528 stages completed in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 102 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The first horizontal open hole well in the Bakken Shale with a total of 19 stages has been successfully completed using HiWAY and the first job has also been conducted in the Middle East.
A significant number of opportunities for future jobs are now under evaluation for HiWAY.
A new field for HiWAY technology deployment are under discussion in the U.S.
and in Canada Argentina India Oman Saudi Arabia Egypt Algeria Congo and Angola.
In the investor conference we also told you about the leading position Schlumberger has established in well intervention and production enhancements to our market leading Wireline slickline and coiled tubing offering.
We are currently seeing particularly strong growth in our new coiled tubing service ACTive which offers real time fiber optic enabled measurements and this new service has already been deployed to 20 GeoMarkets around the world.
Finally I would like to highlight IPM's outstanding drilling performance on the well construction project in Iraq.
All the projects have been mobilized and started on schedule in a very challenging environment and we are now drilling both for BP and ExxonMobil.
On the BP project we have already managed to half the drilling time from the first well we drilled through the use of both technology and process optimization and our ability to consistently redefine the benchmark for this performance is being recognized by our customers.
With that I will pass the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Paal.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Despite the difficult working environment I'm very pleased to the performance with both our North American and international operations during the quarter where a number of underlying trends were positive.
Wireline growth was encouraging particularly for high technology services.
Despite the seasonal drop in Russia with M-I SWACO the Drilling group revenue increased to excellent performance at IPM Well Construction particularly in Iraq.
In addition growth in revenue synergies with Smith and Geoservices products is very strong.
Reservoir production continued to make gains in North America in both activity and pricing which in our total North American results more than compensated for the absence of a gain share project that was recognized in the fourth quarter and a 42% drop in seismic revenues between the fourth and first quarters.
These positive effects limited the decrease in margins to 206 basis points led by strong performance in a number of GeoMarkets including Iraq where we achieved double-digit margins that we expect to improve continuously through the end of the year.
Looking ahead the recent completion or announcement of various licensing rounds around the world will ensure sustained marine seismic activity.
The anticipated increases in exploration budget and the advent of additional development activity particularly in the Middle East and North America will rapidly improve business conditions for Wireline and Testing Services.
The continued success of new Petrel releases particularly for exploration will ensure further strong performance from SIS.
For Drilling and Measurements however despite strong increases in demand service pricing remains extremely competitive internationally but excellent service quality and advanced technology allows this effect to be offset to some degree.
In addition call-out services are non-contracted rates have boosted this effect and further activity increases later in the year should lead to considerable tightening of capacity with a consequent effects on price impact.
The absence of oil production from Libya combined with continued recovery in demand has reduced the world's spare capacity of oil production significantly.
The call on both fuel oil and natural gas will increase as Japan recovers.
The exploration and production industry has begun to respond and absent a further leg to the recession will have to substantially increase investment to maintain a comfortable supply cushion in an era of political uncertainty.
We anticipate that high oil prices will continue to support additional drilling in the liquid-rich plays in North America.
The upturn in deepwater activity more generally is becoming increasingly visible and the rate of permitting in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico is accelerating.
Middle East activity is increasing substantially led by Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
These activities will progressively mobilize over the next 6 months and the projected increases will reach levels where some resources will become constrained.
Schlumberger is ready for this scenario with new technology equipment and people.
Our excellence in execution initiatives which were introduced in 2007 is already paying dividends and will continue to do so.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call to Stacy for the question-and-answer session.
Stacy? [Operator Instructions] And our first question will go to the line of Dan Boyd with Goldman Sachs.
Andrew I'd like to just follow up with you on what's going on in North America and you alluded to this somewhat in your comments with the seismic being down IPM gaining up being there this quarter.
But what are you seeing especially on land as underlying sort of revenue and margin trends? Just as we look at what 1 of your competitors put up so far the numbers look like they maybe growing a little bit faster.
So maybe can you talk about what you're seeing there and just update us on your strategy of closing the gap in terms of I think size and margin within North America.
Okay Dan.
So can we make an extraction  of the gain for the IPM project that was sold in Q4 and an extraction  for a sequential drop of 43% in seismic revenue.
And then I'm going to ask Paal to talk about the rest of our strategy in North America.
Is that okay? That would be great.
Okay.
Paal? Okay so if you look at what we set out to do about some months ago we set up the goal to basically close the margin gap in North America because at that stage we were severely underperforming in our eyes.
So if you look at where we stand at this stage we have more or less closed the gap so I'm very pleased with the margin momentum that we have managed to create.
And I'm also quite confident and positive in my outlook of our future margin momentum.
If you look at land we are at this stage seeing a very strong pricing momentum in both Drilling and Wireline and I think this will continue in the coming quarters.
I also think that our HiWAY introduction drilling technology is going to help extend our pressure pumping margin momentum.
We're actually seeing some customers switching to our pressure pumping services at this stage at the back of HiWAY.
We also continue to drive utilization in all segments as part of the restructuring that we have initiated and we have record utilization again in pressure pumping in March.
And also see some impacts that still come from the restructuring in terms of supply chain services as well as general support.
Now in addition to that we are also relatively optimistic on the onset of the Gulf of Mexico coming back and we have a very strong position in the high-end services so Wireline and Drilling and Measurements in these new rigs and permits that have been granted.
And this of course is going to be highly accretive to our non-performance going forward.
So that's on the margin side.
On the growth we are very much committed to invest in capacity as we go forward.
The quarter-to-quarter growth for Well Services as I indicated in my comments were in double-digits but they were offset by the significant reduction in multi-client sales as well as the non-recurring gain share we had then in IPM.
So we are very much I would say positive on the outlook of North America at this stage.
We have secured manufacturing capacity on pressure pumping in a multi-year bid program that we started last year and we have a lot of flexibility in our program to continue to take significant capacity addition which is what we are going to do.
That's very helpful.
There's a lot I could probably follow up on with that but let me just go back to the HiWAY and it's something you talked about at your Analyst Day.
But how quickly can you build that up and is that something where we could expect you to start pulling through a lot more services and using that to lead with a differentiator? But in terms of scale and how many pressure pumping jobs or how many fleets you could roll it out to how should we think about the progress that has been made and how quickly that could continue to ramp up? I think we are ramping this up very quickly as you see.
There's somewhat the quotations that's needed to be done on the pressure pumping equipment that we have on the wildcard but this is not significant.
So the main thing is just to have the product available to pump and we have obviously a significant supply line set up to do this right? So just in terms of the ramp we did about 100 stages as I said in Q4 and we did over 500 in Q1.
And this is now multiplying almost by the day right? So we have not only in North America but we are now engaged in looking at candidates and projects pretty much all over the globe.
So this is a significant amount I would say growth vehicle for us on pressure pumping.
And as I said even in North America we've had cases where customers have switched to our pressure pumping services in the background  of HiWAY.
Okay.
And if I could just have 1 more follow up on just the Gulf of Mexico coming back because that's something that Andrew highlighted at the Analyst Day of something we could -- the 1 upside surprise to really tighten even international market it sounds like you're optimistic there but is that something that you think contributes to a much higher incremental margins in the back half of the year just broadly in the business? No I would say so.
If you look at our margins in North America historically the Gulf of Mexico has always been highly accretive to our business.
Over the past year it has been highly dilutive so I think it's going to have a significant relative impact to our margin as we go forward.
Thanks a lot.
And we'll go to the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Andrew in your comments you mentioned that you believe some resources will be constrained as activity increases.
Which product lines would you expect would be constrained first? And I would assume it would likely be in some international markets over others could you give us a little color? I think that if the Gulf of Mexico plays out Saudi plays out.
The new [indiscernible]  seem to be coming on a pretty much as we planned them then the first place that equipment control that will show up will be Drilling and Measurements.
In fact in some places they're showing up already which makes complete nonsense of the industry's pricing policy at this point in time.
And on international margins for the third quarter of 2007 we were at 18.7%.
Obviously increased in Q4 to 19.3% on seasonality and as expected declined here in Q1 to 16.5% for international margins.
When you think about the second quarter could we go back to the third quarter level for international margins at 18.7% or do you see that as a second half of 2011 event? No I will be disappointed if we don't do that in the second quarter.
Okay.
And then finally there's been some commentary about performance-based contracts for Schlumberger and it's been an area that you're focusing on globally.
Could you give us a little color what percentage it is of total revenues today? What could it rise to? What customers you're working for? And is there any risk that this could change the dynamics for peak international margins for the cycle? I'm going to let Paal answer the question on the strategy with performance contracting.
Okay so we have actually been moving our contract base in particular within Drilling and Measurements towards performance contract over the past couple of years.
And at this stage we have around 1/3 of our contracts for Drilling and Measurements based on performance in various forms.
And this is obviously something that we will continue to push going forward.
Exactly how high it will come I can't give you an exact number on but again we are setting quite aggressive goals in terms moving our contracts towards this type of cycle.
And the key for that is that obviously when you take on a performance-based contract you need to have confidence in your ability to perform.
And at this stage we are very confident in our ability.
And the reason for that is the excellent in execution program that we embarked on 4 years ago where we have basically invested heavily both on the product development side to get better performing products but also on the operational processes and all of these elements are now paying off very very nicely.
Yes and if I can provide a little color to that Angie.
In Q1 the first quarter of 2011 we replaced our competition in Drilling and Measurements on 40 jobs.
They replaced us on 7.
Almost all 40 we replaced them on were for service quality review.
We were replaced 1 for service quality and 6 times because we didn't have the right tool available.
So I was just -- a very nice point that in this international market as drilling ramps up quality is really going to count.
So is there a specific customer that you're working is this more NOCs in international oil companies or give us little color there? I think it's across the board at the moment.
Okay great.
Well thanks guys.
I'm going to the line of Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
A question to Paal or for Simon  Ayat there you didn't highlight any of sort of magnitude of the negative headwinds in the first quarter.
That's where it's somewhat unusual Australia North Africa I mean we all know this was a very unusual quarter.
Could you give us not enough with respect to North America but with respect to international could you help us with some kind of magnitude of the negative effect versus kind of a normalized type of core environment? I mean we all know that there's no such thing as normalized but nevertheless could you help us a little bit? So Ole as we announced before this impact of geopolitical and weather overall impacted us between $0.08 to $0.10 will probably be more on the lower end of that.
And this is what happened in the first quarter some of it is North America it's only the weather impact of it is North America but the rest is international.
So we are in that range that we announced partly it's North America but the large part of this is international because of the geopolitical and the Australia weather the severe weather we experienced in Q1.
Does this answer your question? Yes.
So if you look at the margin impact from there say your international so would this be -- so in percentage terms on the international margins what would that translate into? We're not going to give you a percentage Ole but the decremental was very high because whether you can't cut costs and when you're evacuating a place like Libya you have very high decremental costs.
So you can assume it was a very high percentage.
Yes.
Just trying to get a feel for sort of as things normalized without pricing and the way margins would be but I think can back into it from what you've said.
Second question Andrew I mean talking about this nonsense pricing that the industry is engaged on I mean how much of your capacity is tied up on nonsense pricing a the moment and when do you think it will roll off? Well not a great deal.
As yet there are probably 1 or 2 fairly large contracts where to retain them we've gone through nonsense pricing.
But along as those contracts are long term we know very well within the year's time we won't selling the technology we bid on so there's a possibly to recover margin in this.
It's very much there.
It's not -- what I'm worried about is what I'm concerned about is that we're going into a market where the demand for this service is picking up very very rapidly and we still see a lot of nonsense pricing out there.
Would you think that - - you've been through a few cycles so when do you think there'll be an environment where people will realize that it's better than nothing? Yes they will realize it when it has happened in 1 or 2 cases already when they win contracts but they can't serve it because then the customers will become upset.
And once the customers become upset if you want to provide a decent service you have to pay for it right? So the emphasis will shift.
Do you see a scenario where international margins could catch up with North American margins? And if so when would that be? Well that's going to depend an awful lot on 2 things in North America.
The first is the speed with which the Gulf comes back after its initial flush of permits right? So what is the total recon in the Gulf  going to look like in 2012.
And the second is even if activity doesn't rollover pricing rollover on land in North America because of the surge in capacity.
So those 2 effects will come North America margins they're a little bit unknown at the moment.
But I think that absent the second leg to the recession or a severe drop in demand due to higher oil prices that the trend in international margins will in the back half of this year should accelerate.
I mean as I said in my comments more and more confident that the activity is there.
Okay Andrew.
Finally this 1 could you quantify what you mean when you say spare capacity in the global oil markets have heightened up significantly as a result of this? Could you just share a little bit more of your thoughts on that? Well you've lost them -- well I mean very rough numbers you've lost 800 000 to 1 million barrels a day out of Libya which is having to be made up by other people which means that from the global spare capacity which you could calculate is really being around 4.5 million 5 million barrels a day you've lost 1 million.
And I actually think that political uncertainty will add to the need to add spare capacity or to have more spare capacity available in the world.
And I think oil prices are reflecting that at this point in time.
Do you see that the scenario with the shale oil could become as big a surprise as what the shale gas goes to  all of us? You're going to have to define what you mean by shale oil Ole.
Okay.
Are you talking about the Colorado...
On the global unconventional oil what is the scope for that to surprise the way North America unconventional gas did over the past couple of years? I don't know.
I honestly don't know.
I mean we are looking at it but I don't have a decent result.
You want to say anything Paal? No I'm thinking  -- well I think at this stage it is really is what is driving the sustained activity in North America all right? But I mean we have -- some of these wells are produced for 1 or 2 years maximum I'd say.
It's still early to say how sustainable it is.
But at this stage it is looking quite promising.
Thank you very much.
It's a light shale gas Ole.
It depends a lot on infrastructure.
[indiscernible] completely wrong.
So I'm just wondering what is the scope here that we can grow oil production significantly more than what anybody's kind of thinking about at the moment if [indiscernible].
Well I don't think that you can take these reservoirs as being some form of way of replacing the Middle East or something.
And we'll go to the line of Brad Handler with Credit Suisse.
Could we spend a little time on your seismic outlook please? Very nicely optimistic.
I guess what I -- maybe 1 way of asking the question is how much of your optimism is based on the broad demand for seismic services for Marine contract services specifically versus kind of nice illustrations of coil shooting technology and uptick there or continued uptick.
But how much of it is sort of technology driven and specifically Schlumberger technology just trying to parse between those 2? So I think the main basis for optimism at this stage is the fact that we have a very very strong technology position both on the acquisition side and on the processing side right? So the examples we showed on Coil Shooting is obviously at the absolute high end of it but there's also a lot of other technologies within the offering which is unique to us right? So we are quite I would say upbeat and optimistic on the basis of this strong technology position.
I think what's going to be the key element that's going to determine the uptick on marine pricing is going to be what's happening -- what is going to happen in the Gulf.
So I'd say whether the same round  is going to go forward at the end of this year or early 2012.
If that is the case then I think there will be a significantly more multi-client acquisition activity in the Gulf which again is going to tie up investments that are currently on third-party and this again will then hopefully create the pricing traction that we are looking for.
I thought the counter to that is whether some of the players more and more specifically mine leading trend  they keep adding vessels to the global's pick up.
But overall the technology position is at this stage what makes us products optimistic and upbeat on seismic.
Understand.
Just a couple of -- maybe some quick follow-ups on that.
So I understand the Gulf position but I guess you have new horizons in Brazil  that you're securing some work to shoot as well I'm sure there's more to come.
Obviously you have a number of emerging basins can that -- I guess the suggestion is that can all soak up with capacity is today and is it a tighter sort of tighter outlook on that basis than perhaps you've even suggesting the last 6 months or is it more -- is it pretty similar? I think overseas it is pretty similar right? Yes we've had these surveys planned and they were going ahead and that's good and some of them are actually going more high-tech than what they initially thought.
But I think the main doubt there is how many vessels are going to be attracted into the Gulf of Mexico as we get ready for this lease turnaround.
I would just add if I may Paal that the awards of blocks in the Kwanza basin in Angola were all the people who've been awarded have a time-limited in which they have to shoot 2 500 square kilometers of seismic is a fairly significant event in demand over the next 18 months.
That's very helpful.
1 last 1 quickly.
Your backlog of $900 million in WesternGeco how does that compare with a quarter ago? We've slightly improved.
It's a slight improvement I might say Brad.
Okay very good.
Thanks guys.
And we'll go to the line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> I've got a couple of quick follow-ups.
First on North America if I think about just the changing complexion of the market with liquids and foreign capital IOC is coming back.
Does the liquids and just call it the toolkit required to get to that resource and the operator mix shift at all? Did Schlumberger benefit disproportionately from those 2 factors you think in terms of your opportunities for market share? I would say not at this stage.
I still think as you know I said on many occasions that for both these liquid-rich plays as well as the gas plays that longer term the current technology is extremely wasteful and longer term that's going to shift and it's going to shift to a point where the completed zones will be pinpointed rather than being almost statistically frac-ed but the technology is still 2 or 3 years away from that probably.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So the resource that we're after doesn't really change that underlying trend that you've been talking about for a while then? No not really.
Not really.
The tool set is not there yet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you Andrew.
On quickly follow up on the seismic side Paal your comment that sort of the technology uptake early on if I could sort of think about exploration cycles from leasing rounds to seismic acquisition I think the uptake rate historically was pretty slow in the sense that you had lease and then some maybe 2D and as you got more comfortable you went to 3D but the technology penetration seems to be occurring a lot faster in the cycle.
So is it correct to say that there's in effect a double lever this time around and that exploration activity is growing very rapidly? And that you're seeing that technology penetration much sooner in the cycle? Mike I'm just going to answer that because it's a subject I really enjoy.
The advent of our technology is almost redefining the way in which people will do their initial delineation after 3D.
So for example a lot of the work we're doing in Brazil is they've made the discovery they've identified the reservoir but before they go into development they want to have a really really high resolution map of the actual reservoir from seismic.
So the technology is redefining to a certain extent the way that they're applying it applying seismic as a tool.
And if can add I think also in the past you may have had options of whether you went to 2D or conventional 3D and you could still get a reasonable view of the reservoir.
And with some of the reservoirs that we are chasing now below salt there is only 1 option in some cases and that is called shooting.
So in fact the need to move to high-end technology even to get some cycle answer is a lot more significant at this stage and that's why I think the technology uptake again is going to be quicker and higher.
LLC</strong> That's great.
Thanks guys.
And we'll go to line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> The question I have is when you look at the numbers you had really impressive international margin performance from around 900 basis points better than your closest competitor.
So with that what dynamics are in place that could provide Schlumberger with the opportunity to increase this spread? And do these dynamics provide a unique opportunity for Schlumberger relative to your competitors? So if you look at the margins overseas again similar to North America we also are mostly very confident in our ability to basically continue to widen the margin gap that we have versus the competition.
Some of the reasons for that is that we still see a significant margin upside from the Smith integration as we continue to get both the revenue synergies and the cost synergy and as we switch into the exploration phase the value mix of our services is I would say still significantly higher or more favorable than that of our competitor.
And also given our size at this stage and the focus that we have put over the past year on internal efficiencies there is significant cost in margin potentials from our side.
So I would say that generally the margin momentum we have overseas is significant and we will continue to pursue it and maintain a very meaningful margin gap towards our competition.
Kurt we explained in Boston and I'll repeat it that as prices go up and as projects become more and more difficult service quality and technology become more and more important and the operator's desire to take chances diminish and I think that's what you see happening.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
That's all for me.
Thank you so much.
And we'll go to the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Good morning guys.
Andrew I had a question about the Middle East specifically.
We obviously see the ramp up that's occurring in Iraq and we have improving trends in Saudi here.
For your other customers in the region are they starting to consider or starting to accelerate programs in response to this perhaps to secure service capacity? I don't think we've seen that yet but I don't think it's very far away Jim.
Okay.
I don't think -- I can't honestly say we've seen it yet but I don't see it far away James.
But it certainly hasn't gone unrecognized what those two countries are doing I would assume? Absolutely not no.
And also the Gulf they're reissuing permits in the Gulf.
The operators all notice these things.
Understood.
And then one question actually on the Gulf of Mexico it has been a negative drag on earnings.
If we assume your cost structure as it is today and your current market share -- historical market share there how many rigs do you need running in deepwater to turn breakeven or positive from an earnings perspective in the Gulf? We've never been negative in the Gulf.
So we've kept most of the infrastructure in place.
We do not export a bunch of equipment so there's not a huge amount of investment and we will bring people the skill -- the very skilled people who we’ve been using overseas from the Gulf back into the Gulf so the actual cost structure is not going to be significantly different from what it was before.
So we will -- the margin as Paal pointed out a few minutes ago are going to accelerate pretty rapidly.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
And we'll go to the line of John David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Andrew you probably have a good insight and mentality that anyone has seen out there just kind of a related question of what James is asking but specifically about Manifa.
Would Manifa have happened at this time it wasn't for Libya? In other words was Manifa planning to go at this stage all along or have we seen a change in kind of the way Aramco is operating and kind of accelerating things and I guess you're saying you think it's out there has anything kind of shift in terms of your views of the international cycle as it kind of all fits in together? I'm absolutely not going to make any comments on those specific policies of Saudi Aramco.
They always had the option of accelerating Manifa in the various times.
In the last two years they've slowed it down and they've accelerated it.
They're now at this point in time it's not for me to speculate.
But yes I think that the absence of good production worries  the oil producers generally because while they like a high-level price you don't like a higher oil price because of they potential they have to destroy demand.
So where we see a greater activity from other NOCs I think we probably will.
And also don't forget that this activity that's being added we do not see that coming at the expense of the expansion of gas activity which is already taking place in the Middle East.
So is it fair to say you're incrementally more positive on terms of the timing of the international spend than you were 90 days ago? I have a great deal more of comfort that is -- well firstly I'm more confident it's happening because we can see what's being built what's being mobilized and the rest of it.
And given the geopolitical circumstances the condition of Libya and Japan and everything else yes I think that I'm much more confident that the international spend are going to come much faster.
And also Andrew in your release you talked about exploration spending ticking up and we're starting to see it pretty well distributed globally.
I was wondering if you could just kind of provide some context as you should see how exploration versus development spending evolves over the next couple of years compared to last cycle? In other words if you look out the next kind of 12 months how does that kind of spending makes up exploration? Where does that compare? Are we looking kind of like '05 '06 and how that ramped up how are you thinking about that as you look out? I think the biggest -- there are two significant changes in the way the exploration might occur in this cycle.
The first is obviously the availability of deepwater rigs and the relative increase in our knowledge of how to prospect in deepwater compared to 5 or 6 years ago that's 1.
And the second is the national oil companies themselves coming back to exploration which is not something that they did on any scale in the previous cycles.
So generally and if you look at a basket of oil companies private ones the reserves in production ratios are not great.
Where they have acreage is going to be perspective with these oil  prices I think they will substantially increase their exploration spend and you're seeing one or two of them out there.
And we'll go to the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Sticking with the Middle East Asia-Pacific region here quickly.
Andrew back in '05 '06 '07 we had sort of annualized revenue growth of 20% to 30% almost hard to believe that now.
I mean clearly you were coming from the smaller base you were in the midst of Saudi tripling its rig count.
But based upon the broad and building swell that you're seeing right now in the Middle East do we get back to those kind of annualized revenue growth rates do you think? Well first you have to remember the biggest change between now and then is we have Smith.
And we have the opportunity to expand both Smith and M-I SWACO in those regions that we did not have in the previous cycle.
Activity wise I don't think -- I still don't think it's going to ramp as fast as it did in '05 '06 because the tripling of the rig count in Saudi was sort of once in 100 year event almost overseas because overseas never normally go that far.
But over time can we double some of them in the Asia again? Yes I think we can.
Okay.
Secondly with regard to Drilling and Measurement sort of performance-based contracts I'm curious as to how your appetite for performance-based contracts Paal will shift in the event we get the supply-demand framework for D&amp;M tightening and pricing improving demonstrably relative to the supercompetitive environment today.
Does that lessen your appetite for performance-based pricing and improving overall pricing environment or is it still sort of a strategy of your irrespective of pricing where you want more performance-based  contracts? Yes.
I don't think the pricing of capacity necessarily is going to change our strategy on that.
I think the benefit of this model is that we have the ability to set ourselves apart from the competition due to the stronger performance that we have and obviously if there's a tightening of capacity and the base prices continue to go up.
They will have to be a higher value for the performance that we put up.
But the contractual framework very much holds water  in a tighter capacity situation as well.
We will continue to push that and make sure that we get our fair share of the value that we create with our customers.
Now I'm sure it varies by contract and by customer but remind us basically the framework of how performance-based pricing works.
What's the base pricing if you will? Is it at a discount to what you would otherwise charge in a standard contract? And clearly you're going to get something above and beyond what you would get on a standardized basis in the event that you deliver on the performance but remind us the framework if you will as to how the performance-based pricing works.
What you said is pretty much the case.
These things vary significantly and in terms of how you formulate it in the various contracts and the various customers.
But the principle is that there is a basic fee that we get for being there and doing the work and that could typically be lower than what normal pricing would be.
But then there is a similar upside for us to harvest in the event that we outperform what is currently perceived to be the benchmark and the benchmark would be the average performance of I would say us and the various competitors.
So exactly how you're formulating contracts  varies somewhat but that's the basic principle.
And by having that basic principle is just a matter of how much you put on the basic fee and how much you put on the performance upside.
And at the end of the day for us to deploy equipment into these types of contracts for customers in a tightening market it would have to be attractive.
And we'll go to the line of Mike Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Andrew or Paal you talked about the tightening you see in pricing I guess initially in the Drilling and Measurements.
Is that -- given the increase visibility that you've seen was that something you felt was going to be happening anyway as we progressed here or is that been more a function of Saudi coming back into the market in terms of your view? One more time I always thought I may have been wrong but D&amp;M will be the segment that tightens first partly because they lose a lot of equipment.
And so if you have an increase in activity and the normal rate of equipment lasted things tend to tighten very fast unless industry is completely overbuilt.
Now the Gulf of Mexico and Saudi Arabia are both very heavy users of D&amp;M equipment.
So those events have probably given us confidence that pricing is going to come back soon.
I agree.
You said year-end early on and I think it will definitely by year-end if not the second half of the year.
Okay.
And then after D&amp;M where would we progress in terms of the tightening cycle in pricing? Well I think the next segment that we would see that in will be in more slightly open-hole  Wireline.
That's the next in line for that.
So probably similar tougher times maybe slightly off in Drilling and Measurements  but very quickly Wireline as well.
And then where do you have -- conversely where do you have the most excess capacity in the industry? What would be last to tighten? Sorry again? What would be the last? Where should we see -- expect to see the pricing lagging? I don't -- it's very difficult to say.
That will depend an awful lot on how capacity evolves in North America whether we overbuild or we don't overbuild.
Okay got you.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
And we have time for one last question.
And we'll go to the line of Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Andrew you've mentioned a couple of times now that either you've replaced one of your competitors on several contracts or that as you anticipate perhaps doing it in the future given their inability to deliver on contracts.
I'm just curious when you're replacing some on these contracts are you doing it -- so not only getting the volume pickup but are you doing it typically at a higher price in what the competitor was doing that work for? We are not an insurance policy for our competitors.
In other words if we replace them we do not agree to the contractual terms that they accepted to get the job.
If we accept to replace them at their contract value we're just an insurance policy.
Okay sure.
So there is some an embedded pricing improvement I guess in that.
And then just one follow-up...
Paal wants to say something.
No as we decide to take on someone else's contract whether that's for 1 well or 2 wells or whatever it is we'd obviously look at the value of that contract and whether it's something that we do want to take on.
So it would have to be attractive again for us to do it and increasingly so when our competition keeps bidding low and our customers want us to come in that amount [ph].
Sure.
Just as we look for the quarter 2 here can you give some just sense in terms of -- you had almost a 10% drop in your revenues in first quarter from fourth quarter.
Just I know we had seasonal issues clearly that were addressed but can we just talk a little bit about top line recovery here as we kind of look out the next couple of quarters and maybe how you think -- you guys think about as a whole year-over-year growth perhaps 2011 versus 2010 given what's going on in North Africa? So the bulk of the revenue drop outside North America was either seasonal or geopolitical.
So obviously Libya is not coming back right? The rest of it probably will.
And the mobilization of projects towards the end of the quarter offshore was quite high.
So second quarter can we recover what we lost compared to Q4 for example? I don't think we're going to be very far away.
Okay.
Thanks Andrew and Paal for your time.
In closing I would like to thank Robert Bergeron for his support during his time as Manager for Investor Relation and wish him luck in his next assignment.
And now on behalf of the Schlumberger Management Team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
And Stacy will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This conference will be available for replay after 9:30 a.m.
today running through May 21 until midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 or 1 (320) 365-3844 and when prompted enter the access code of 190450.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Malcolm Theobald.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Joining me for today's call which is being hosted from London are Andrew Gould Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Paal Kibsgaard Chief Operating Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to Andrew's comments Simon will first review the quarter's financial results then Paal will provide an overview of the operational results and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges was $0.87 per share.
This is an increase of $0.16 sequentially and $0.19 compared to the same quarter of last year.
During the quarter we recorded $0.05 of charges relating to our donation to the Schlumberger Foundation as well as the continuing integration of Smith and Geoservices.
We also recorded a gain of $0.16 per share in discontinued operations as a result of the divestiture of our global connectivity Services business.
Pretax operating income for Oilfield Services which as a reminder now includes all 3 of our product groups was $1.75 billion.
This represents a $295 million sequential increase.
Oilfield Services pretax operating income margin improved 155 basis points to 19.5%.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by products were as follows: Second quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.46 billion was 12% higher sequentially and increased 7% year-on-year.
Pretax operating income of $602 million was 31% higher sequentially and increased 9% year-on-year.
Revenue increased sequentially due mainly to higher WesternGeco Marine proprietary surveys and multiclient sales and to greater Wireline exploration activity with a partial recovery from the previous quarter's exceptional weather and geopolitical events.
Increased Schlumberger information solution SIS software sales also contributed to this performance.
Pretax margin improved 348 basis points sequentially to 24.5% led by improved WesternGeco Marine utilization strong Wireline activity and increased software revenue.
Drilling Group second quarter revenue of $3.46 billion was 8% higher sequentially and 127% higher year-on-year.
Drilling Group revenue increased sequentially on higher M-I SWACO sales and service activity and a stronger Drilling &amp; Measurements technology penetration increased pricing and improved job count.
Among the drilling technology's sequential increases were boosted by Bits &amp; Advanced Technologies Drilling Tools &amp; Remedial and PathFinder as these former Smith product lines provided platform for growth as drilling intensity and the complexity continue to increase.
Margin for the Drilling Group increased by 98 basis points to 15.6% primarily due to a very strong performance by M-I SWACO and increased Drilling &amp; Measurements activity.
Second quarter Reservoir Production revenue of $3.06 billion increased 13% sequentially and 47% year-on-year.
Pretax operating income of $613 million was 16% higher sequentially and increased 146% against last year.
Revenue increased sequentially on higher pricing significant capacity addition and improved asset utilization for Well Services in North America but this increase was partially reduced by the effects of the prolonged spring break-up in Canada and adverse weather in the Williston Basin.
Internationally Middle East and Asia revenue grew on Well Services sales higher stimulation vessel pricing and a stronger activity.
Artificial Lift and Completion Systems sales also grew robustly in the second quarter particularly in Latin America.
There's a lot of production margin increased slightly by 57 basis points to 20% as we experienced revenue improvement across all technologies.
The Distribution business contributed a pretax operating income of $24 million.
Turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges was 24.8% as compared to 23.6% in the first quarter.
We still expect the ETR for the full year to be in the mid-20s reflecting the anticipated mix of activity.
We ended the quarter with $5.3 billion of cash and investments on hand and short-term debt of $3.3 billion.
Net debt was $4.3 billion at the end of the quarter as compared to $4 billion at the end of the last quarter.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $707 million of stock purchases $931 million of CapEx and $385 million of proceeds from the divestiture of the Global Connectivity Services business.
During the quarter we repurchased 8.2 million shares at an average price of $86.27 per share.
CapEx for all Schlumberger is now expected to approach $4.2 billion in 2011.
And now I will turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Oilfield Services second quarter revenue of $8.99 billion grew 11% sequentially and 51% year-on-year.
North America had another strong quarter with 11% sequential growth while margins were up 53 basis points including the impact of a severe spring break-up in Canada.
Excluding Canada U.S.
sequential revenue growth was 21% while sequential margins were up 287 basis points.
These results were driven by both strong pressure pumping and drilling activity.
In Well Services we have so far this year added more hydraulic horsepower than in any previous full year.
Over the past quarter we have also made further investments in supply chain and infrastructure in support of these horsepower additions.
These investments will further benefit our operating margins in the coming quarters.
All our drilling technologies showed strong growth and margin performance including Drilling &amp; Measurements PathFinder M-I SWACO and the former Smith Bits and Smith Services.
In the Gulf of Mexico all our deepwater startups were conducted flawlessly and we also started a new multiclient seismic survey using our latest Dual Coil Shooting technology.
Pricing continued to strengthen in all groups in North America with pricing momentum now being led by our Drilling and Wireline segments.
In the international markets revenue grew 11% sequentially while margins were up 230 basis points to 18.5% driven by strong performance in all operating areas.
In Latin America revenue grew 14% sequentially and margins were up 228 basis points based on strong results in Brazil Venezuela and Columbia.
During the quarter we also saw a significant ramp-up in the number of offshore rigs in Mexico.
In terms of technology the sequential performance was led by strong exploration activity for WesternGeco and Drilling &amp; Measurements and strong sales in M-I SWACO and SIS software products.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue grew 8% sequentially while margins were up 155 basis points.
The results were negatively impacted by our Libya business being shut down for the entire quarter while we continue to pay our local Libyan employees.
Good progress was made in Algeria where our rig JV Sahara now has all rigs operating.
In Sub-Sahara Africa growth of Guinea exploration remains strong while we are seeing a temporary slowdown in exploration activity in East Africa which will pick up again in Q4.
North Sea activity was steady with good exploration activity in both Norway and the U.K.
and with startup of the Greenland exploration campaign towards the end of the quarter.
Middle East and Asia recorded sequential revenue growth of 12% while margins were up 300 basis points.
The results were led by strong activity in the Saudi Arabia Iraq and East Asia while we also saw a positive impact on several countries as we recovered from the geopolitical and weather events of the previous quarter.
In Saudi Arabia the announced ramp up in activity is progressing on schedule and will continue in the second half of the year.
In Iraq our position continue to strengthen during the quarter in terms of capacity and infrastructure.
All projects we are involved in are progressing on plan and we continue to set new drilling records in our IPM Well Construction operations.
In the second quarter Iraq revenue was already north of $100 million and exit margins were approaching the average of our Middle East and Asia operating area.
Let me then turn to some of the technology highlights for the quarter.
The Smith integration continues to progress very well both in terms of revenue and cost synergies to the point that the transaction this quarter was accretive on an earnings-per-share basis.
The results from the Smith segments are driven by the strong position in North America as well as the rapid expansion of their offering to the international markets supported by Schlumberger's footprint and infrastructure.
The integration of complementary Smith and Schlumberger technologies continues to improve drilling performance for our customers with the combination of the new PowerDrive Archer rotary-steerable-system and tailor-made Smith Bits being one example that shows great results.
In addition to the progress we are making with the Smith integration we also further strengthened our drilling position in the Russian land markets this quarter where we closed the previously announced transaction with Eurasia Drilling.
This transaction significantly expands market access for our Drilling products and services to a preferred supplier agreement with one of the largest rig contractors in Western Siberia.
In pressure pumping the growth of HiWAY continued in the second quarter.
We have now successfully deployed this fracturing technology in all of our 4 operating areas and the results continue to show higher production while using significantly less resources.
So far in 2011 more than 1 200 stages have been pumped globally saving over 60 000 tons of proppant compared to standard fracturing techniques.
In North America more than 700 stages were pumped in the second quarter and a total of 15 customers have now deployed the technology.
In Reservoir Characterization our shale reservoir modeling workflow continues to gain traction both internationally and in North America.
This workflow uses seismic logs and cores to establish a subsurface model that is able to predict the variations in shale reservoir quality.
This enables our customers to only drill wells in the best part of the shale and only fracture the parts of the horizontal section with real production potential.
This way they can significantly reduce the wasted drilling and completion costs from the brute force approach currently used in the shale developments.
In seismic we are seeing continued growth in worldwide activity and we believe that this will lead to pricing gains in the second half of this year as previously predicted.
In support of our seismic business we recently opened a new WesternGeco manufacturing facility in Penang Malaysia.
This brings the capacity needed to expand deployment of our marine streamers and land systems.
160 fully trained people are already active in the new center that was operational only 9 months after the project was launched.
That concludes my remarks and I now hand the call over to Andrew.
Thank you Paal and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Second quarter results showed strong growth worldwide.
All product groups grew at double-digit rates.
In North America a prolonged Canadian spring break-up and cool weather in the northwest were offset by very strong growth in the rest of U.S.
land and a significant contribution from deepwater operations as rig count increased and renewed exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico led to better multiclient seismic data sales.
Internationally the trend towards higher deepwater rig counts and higher exploration spending continued.
This activity was coupled with a surge in developments and work over activities producers moved to compensate for reduced Libya barrels and to profit from higher prices.
As a result all groups had standout product lines in the quarter and technology sales showed good progress.
Strong advances were made in all technologies linked to deepwater exploration and complex development drilling including WesternGeco Drilling &amp; Measurements M-I SWACO and open-hole Wireline as well as Testing Services.
The Drilling Group continued to record strong synergistic revenue with a legacy Smith Bits and Drilling Tool businesses in many areas of the world.
The Reservoir Production in addition to the strong North American stimulation market high growth rates were experienced internationally as operators moved to improve production and to test unconventional gas plays in several markets.
Pricing power in North America pressure pumping remained robust.
But more importantly towards the end of the quarter it became clear that pricing traction for certain other services particularly those related to Drilling high-risk deepwater plays or other complex developments was in place both in North America and internationally.
This is not yet universal but a positive trend is in place which should yield results by the end of the year.
In our second quarter outlook we outlined the key constituents of supply and demand for oil and gas over the next few years and pointed out that absent a further length of the recession substantial increases in investment will be necessary to maintain an adequate supply cushion in an area of political uncertainty.
We anticipated that the international supply response would progressively ramp up over the second half of 2011.
It transpired that the international ramp-up made a strong start in the second quarter that will continue through the rest of the year and into 2012.
The continued strength in drilling liquid-rich plays in North America coupled with an acceleration in drilling both in exploration and development internationally will put considerable strain on the ability of the service industry to meet activity levels.
While it is not unprecedented that the North American cycle has run concurrently with the increasing activity internationally the service intensity of drilling and completing horizontal wells in liquid-rich plays and shale gas basins has introduced the new dynamic inasmuch as this activity requires far more service equipment than was traditionally used in the North American land market.
As a result the ability of the industry to supply both North American and international markets with the required equipment and people in a concurrent growth phase will be challenged.
Schlumberger through our size geographical coverage multinational workforce comprehensive product and service portfolio and technology capability is uniquely placed to help our customers meet these challenges worldwide.
Thank you very much and I will now hand the call over for the question-and-answer session.
Greg? [Operator Instructions] And our first question in queue will come from James West with Barclays Capital.
Andrew you've made some pretty positive comments on Iraq to the press recently.
And of course Paal you made some very positive comments as well here in your prepared remarks.
I was curious as to the trajectory of growth from today's levels that you see in the top line.
And then with respect to margins really I was deeply impressed with the margin side there.
How have you been able to improve your margin so quickly when most of your competition has really struggled in profitability in Iraq? James I'll now let Paal answer that okay? Okay.
So on the top line I think our outlook is very positive.
I think we expect to see a continued ramp in activity throughout the rest of this year and into next year.
Just to give you some context the way it's shaping up for this year.
Iraq is likely to be the seventh biggest GeoMarket in the Middle East and Asia operating area that's out of a total of 14.
And in 2012 we expect this to be #3.
Now in terms of margins like I said the exit margins at the end of this quarter were quickly approaching the average on the Middle East and Asia operating area.
And there's a couple of things that I think that are key to this.
Firstly we have been very good in picking up the right type of contracts.
In the contracts we have we have been very careful what kind of liabilities we have been prepared to take on.
That meant that we didn't win some of the contracts but the ones that we have we are quite happy with.
And I think we are doing quite a good job for our customers in those as well.
We've also I think been quite good at tailoring the amount of resources we have in-country to what we need to operate effectively.
And thirdly really the main driver that we have recently now is that we are significantly beating the initial drilling targets in terms of time for the IPM projects that we have.
We have more than half the average time it takes us to drill these wells.
And obviously when you are compensated on a turnkey basis that obviously helps drive your margins.
Okay that's very clear and very helpful.
Maybe a broader question around the Middle East as a whole.
I think last quarter I asked a question had there been a response from other countries outside of Saudi Arabia to the Saudi's ramp-up that's now clearly underway.
Three months later have you seen other countries really step up or announce plans to step up their activity.
We've seen plans announced.
But I would argue that no none of the other countries are executing with the speed of Saudi.
So yes it's going to come but it's not there yet James.
And the next question in queue that will come from the line of Kurt Hallead of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> So Andrew back a few months ago you had referenced then in varying types of questions that it would take -- it's be hard to see another type of inflection let's say in the international cycle relative to the '05 '08 period because you're not going to get 100 rig increment out of Saudi.
The prepared comments in the press release today in some ways kind of suggests that the deflection -- inflection is now upon us.
What do you expect in terms of the sustainability this cycle? Do you think it's something that could play out over a 3 to 5-year period? And once again let's take out the macro elements here.
And then secondly how would you characterize Schlumberger's positioning and differential positioning to benefit in this cycle compared to its peers? Well I mean I think that to the extent that the liquid-rich plays is extended in the U.S.
I'm not going to comment on gas because I really don't quite understand how the gas rig count's going to work out.
I think that what a pricing inflection point could be created just by the fact you have 2 concurrent cycles one overseas and one in North America.
Now the second thing this distinguishing factor of Schlumberger is Reservoir Characterization.
It was very clear in this quarter that an acceleration in the exploration cycle is such that that is going to be a distinguishing part of the company.
And if we look at the level of demand for seismic over the last few months and the global demand for seismic coupled with some form of return in the Gulf of Mexico and there have been encouraging noises out of Washington about holding a lease sale that makes the seismic business look a lot better than it did even 3 months ago.
And the second thing is that there have never been so many deepwater rigs on order.
So to the extent that we have exploration success in deepwater and there's no reason to believe we won't have reasonable success I think that the exploration cycle can be a lot more sustained than it was last time when it was abruptly terminated by the financial crisis and by the Macondo incident.
So I think that's the first thing.
And the second thing as I've said forever a long long time ever since I took over to renew the production base when we're close to 90 million barrels a day is just going to take a lot more CapEx than it did -- and OpEx by the way than it did when the world was at even 80 million.
So to the extent that as you say if you exclude the macroeconomic risks which are not inconsiderable at this point in time I'm back to my sort of theme of stronger for longer.
LLC</strong> And then I would maybe just follow up on ultimately the pricing is going to be [indiscernible] maybe again in more detail but on the seismic front Paal you talked about 21% revenue growth in the U.S.
market on a sequential basis.
Is that just for the U.S.
land business or did that 21% also include the seismic? No that's the total.
But if you look at the impact of seismic this quarter it was not really significant.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer of Morgan Stanley.
So my first question though goes back to the U.S.
the Gulf of Mexico.
You sounded a little bit more upbeat than what I had expected when it comes to the near-term outlook for the Gulf.
Could you talk a little bit about what you expect in terms of just the permitting cycle? Well we're not -- I don't think we're really that different from what other people have been saying on the permitting cycle.
But the difference for us is going to be seismic Ole because I'm sure you saw [Michael] Bromwich's statement last week about oil -- firstly the western Gulf which is not great lease sale being held either at the very end of this year or the very beginning of next and central and eastern Gulf lease sale being held in the first half of next year.
And given the investment we've made in really leading-edge subsalt for multiclient surveys using a lot of our full [ph] technology that will be very positive for us.
So I think the difference is seismic.
Okay.
When it comes to the permitting do you expect a little bit of a lull here or do you see a recovery? How do you see it panning out? Paal? Yes.
Well if you look at the current rate it is relatively slow.
But I think as Andrew was alluding to I think if you linked the fact that there is indications from Washington that the lease sale is going to go ahead I think we are relatively optimistic that the permitting will speed up to make sure that the ramp-up of rig activity that we have or that we are seeing or at least we are seeing plans of is going to be or able to be sustained.
Okay.
Andrew on a prior call you made a reference to announcements of pricing strategies by certain market participants can you give us an update to what you're seeing right now? I think it's slowing down.
I also think that it's not -- the consequence is not as surprising as poor service quality.
And last quarter we gave a number of people that we replaced.
And this quarter in our Drilling segment we replaced our competition 47x.
We were replaced 10x and 8x out of 10x we were replaced because of lack of equipment not service quality.
So I think that the rhythm of nonsense pricing is slowing but it's not entirely over.
Well was it mainly your large global players that you replaced or was it situations we're let's say [indiscernible]? No.
It's mainly the large players.
Mainly the large global players.
Mainly the large global players Ole.
Okay then.
Finally my last question Andrew.
West Africa it seems that this year the Russia Europe West Africa is a little slower than what we might have expected almost difficult to gauge given the effect of the sale of the drilling rigs.
But West African exploration you highlighted many times that you're very optimistic about the outlook for West Africa in general and particularly on deepwater exploration.
Can you give us a little bit of an update on what you're seeing at the moment? Well we're fractionally more optimistic on Nigeria following the election.
Gulf of Guinea is still very strong.
We see Angola both exploration and development starting to increase in the second half year and East Africa will be quite slow in the third quarter where we can see it picking up quite a lot in the fourth quarter.
So it's coming.
I know we've said this before I think but deepwater West Africa and East Africa to a certain extent is coming.
And to what extent is this a function of whether there's success of results in the region or not? That's irrelevant at the moment.
There are 3 wells in the Kwanza this year.
If any of them hits a consequential quantity of oil then we will be revising the forecast upwards.
But we -- don't forget that mostly the activity in the next 18 months will be the seismic commitment on the blocks that are awarded.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Crédit Suisse.
Could we please spend a little bit more time on Russia? Maybe you can help us calibrate the impact of the asset swap.
And then perhaps more importantly how should we think about sort of the second half of the year and into 2012 as opportunities should start to present themselves with Eurasia? Paal? Yes so at this stage we are busy integrating the additional drilling and well construction services that we got as part of this transaction right? So there was a negative impact on revenue in the second quarter at the order of about $30 million or so a little bit less than that.
This is going to continue and gradually get lower over the second half and we believe that we'll be on par basically in Q1 of next year.
But these are not significant numbers in the overall ECA picture right? But that's basically that we sold off the rigs and then we have to basically get the services integrated before they start having an impact.
But we are very positive on the overall activity in Western Siberia and also the fact that we now have access with the preferred supplier agreement on one of the biggest rig contractors in the market.
It's going to give us a significant -- a bigger footprint for the products and services that we had at Schlumberger and they'll be added with Smith and that we also now add with the Eurasia deal.
So I think overall the outlook on Russia we are quite bullish on.
Fair enough.
Just to stick with the idea a couple of directions maybe.
First do you anticipate that a lot of it will be done -- a lot of the work won and then executed will be done on some sort of long-term contract basis? Does the nature of the work change even Western Siberia in some way? And then maybe the second question is how important is the idea of pulling through sort of higher-end services into the mix? Well the deal we have with Eurasia is the 5-year preferred supplier agreement.
And for these type of wells there's a general type of basic work that is the standard on everything.
I think it's going to be a significant opportunity to introduce and deploy higher-end technology that we use other places in the world into this as well with the type of rigs that Eurasia are drilling also has.
So I think there is an opportunity to use a very much tailor-made footprint to the Russian market and on top of that put our high-end technology that can significantly improve efficiency.
And if I might just add.
On the question of rigs rig contracts.
The model in Russia is of a general contractor.
And to the extent that Eurasia can do it I think that the contracts will be more and more denominated in numbers of wells.
So the average duration is likely to extend compared to what it's been in recent years.
That was sort of what I was trying to get out I just didn't ask the question very clearly.
I was trying to get at this idea of them owning and controlling a little bit more of the operations which I suppose feeds both longer work and technology.
The rig is the general contractor you're quite right Brad.
Right so might that become more visible or more public as a result if we're [indiscernible].
I very much doubt it.
I mean when you say more public you're referring to -- make sure that the rig count in Western Siberia is to say the least a difficult thing to account for.
Fair enough.
If I may an unrelated follow-up.
Smith integration has clearly gone consistently better than you were sort of forecasting prior right? But as we think about purely from a cost savings and a cost integration basis is there more to come on that score? If you look at the overall deal it was primarily a revenue synergy deal right? There were just some opportunity to reduce costs linked to corporate structure supply chain and some of the supporting infrastructure.
So we are on track with the costs during this year.
There's more cost to come obviously in the second half of the year into next year.
But I think the overshadowing part of the I would say overperformance here is down to the revenue synergies.
And that's partly down to the technical synergies of bringing together all parts of the BHA but also that we are able to relatively quickly transport a lot of the Smith portfolio into the international markets and gain share there relatively quickly.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson from JP Morgan.
Andrew I love asking a big picture question so I guess I'll take my last opportunity here.
I guess there's some debate out there just with the IEA oil release event activity levels in both the near term and the long term out there.
But I get the sense it hasn't really had any impact on Saudi's near-term plans.
I was just wondering if it gave any of your IOC customers any pause regarding the direction of oil prices or is this totally irrelevant and really the real message out there to the market is very bullish and that the developed countries really don't have the confidence that OPEC's true x [ph] has capacity there? I would go with your last analysis.
I think it was a meaningless exercise.
I heard some really strange explanations as to why it was actually done.
But the underlying signal that went to everybody was that the developed nations are worried about the availability of supply long term.
And to think that that quantity of product could really make a difference to the oil price I think was very -- a little bit of a panicky move.
So from your advantage was there any NOC reaction to this at all? Or is it just kind of business as usual and they effectively ignored it? I think they effectively ignored it.
Okay.
On a different subject the Reservoir Characterization group showed some very strong sequential margin improvement.
However North American region didn't.
And I get a good part of that was Canada.
But at the same time in WesternGeco was said that they're the big contributor from the Gulf.
Would have thought that Geco margins would have shown a fairly big margin improvement this quarter? Was that the case? Because we don't have the visibility there anymore.
Sorry let me get it.
The multiclient in the Gulf was better than what we'd normally expect in the second quarter of the year.
It was not a huge contributor to the sequential growth in North America.
But what was significant was multiclient was a significant contributor higher than normally in the second quarter in other parts of the world Australia North Sea West Africa.
So there was a much higher level of international multiclient than we normally would expect in the second quarter of the year.
But it was not a defining fact in North America progression.
It was just a nice to have.
Okay understood.
Your customer base on the multiclient internationally I think it's always been kind of a little bit more on the independent side on the U.S.
how does that change internationally in terms of kind of who that customer mix is? I think the larger players -- actually by the way I think that the argument that multiclient is purely an independent business is being somewhat weakened through the fact that a lot of the multiclient we do we employ totally unique technologies.
And therefore we have IOC buyers just as much as we have independent buyers.
Now generally overseas I would say that pretty much everyone buys multiclient.
It's not just the independent.
The question in the overseas is normally the block sizes are so big the number of players is much smaller and therefore it's much harder to choose a multiclient target survey that's going to have general appeal.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> On seismic Paal I guess a question for you.
If I think about the market getting tighter pricing getting better I guess 2 questions.
One within the context of pricing getting better how much of that do you think is really the technology versus just industry inflation and tightness of utilization.
And then I guess secondly is a follow-on to Andrew's comment that perhaps the multiclient outlook looks a little bit better than we thought 3 or 4 months ago.
Does it change anything on the capital side in terms of converting gunboats back into streamers or even adding vessels? Okay on the first question which is you're asking how much is done through technology and how much is just straight capacity? I think on the technology side we are obviously using a significant amount of our technology in the multiclient and that's how we can for sure deploy it.
So I would say that the main price driver at this stage in the market is going to be tight capacity.
But also we are seeing very good applications for our high-end technology both in the third-party market but even more so on the multiclient.
But generally it's the capacity constraint that's going to initially drive pricing.
On the capital plans I think the main thing for us is that in the Marine seismic gain utilization is everything.
So we are currently running at very good utilization and that's the key driver for our profitability.
So if we see opportunities to add or reconvert back streamer vessels that are currently used as source boats and maintain our utilization well into the 90s we will do that.
But we will be opportunistic on that and look at doing that at the right time.
But we have clearly the capacity to do that whenever we choose to.
LLC</strong> So it's premature relative to your thoughts back at the Analyst Meeting in February to say that the seismic market has gotten to the point where you would consider that? Well I think we are looking at this on a monthly or quarterly basis right? So I would say that the first thing now is that you need to get supply to meet demand and we are getting close to doing that in terms of 3D vessels.
When that is getting close we have built in capacity to our fleet to at least handle a capacity addition for another year before we need to look at new builds and so forth.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then last one for me.
Andrew if I think about international growth you mentioned exploration activity obviously and sort of simultaneous development.
A lot of exploration is offshore.
The onshore conventional side -- or rather the onshore side how much do you think the unconventional is going to contribute to growth over the next 2 to 3 years on the onshore side? Across the global international CapEx budget I think the contribution -- did you mean by unconventional shale? LLC</strong> Yes.
As opposed to tight...
LLC</strong> As opposed to well let's call it all unconventional because I know CBM is a big piece as well.
So tight CBM and shale...
Then I think the countries where it's going to happen are limited.
So China Poland Argentina Australia maybe a little bit of India I don't know.
It's not on the scale of the complete international CapEx budget enough to move the needle.
Now what it is Michael is what I tried to point out in the commentary is where it does happen it absorbs a huge amount of equipment.
So I mean I don't think in the next 2 or 3 years it's enough to shift the needle.
Particularly as overseas as Paal explained in his comments they cannot take a statistical approach to it.
They have to do some qualification of the reservoir because they don't have the same knowledge of the shale however poor that may be as you do in the U.S.
LLC</strong> So science first a lot of Reservoir Characterization work? Well I think they have to yes.
They have to do it.
They can't do it any other way.
I mean that's very obviously the case in Poland for example.
LLC</strong> Right.
So having about Schlumberger impact on Schlumberger the Reservoir Characterization side the geoscience side it's going to show up before really the rig volume starts to show up? Yes.
I shall be watching with interest as they implement the characterization workflow Michael.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Andrew on the international pricing.
For the inflection to truly be upon us or to be universal as you stated in your press release do you think that we need to see both the end of nonsense or nonsensical pricing and greater evidence of tangible activity growth in both West Africa and Southeast Asia? Angie as activity goes up customers become more and more concerned about the quality of service delivery and less and less concerned about the cost.
This is why technology sales are improving right now.
So I think that you don't have to wait for an inflection point to get rid of nonsense pricing.
I think it's going to go away quite naturally.
What was the second part of your question? And then do we need to see both West Africa growth -- I mean tangible activity growth in West Africa and Southeast Asia? It's not [indiscernible].
Don't forget the principal driver of deep water activity is still Brazil.
But if you get a combination of Brazil West Africa and a reasonable level of permits in the Gulf of Mexico and some of the projects in Australia getting sanctioned it's going to get very tight.
Yes.
Yes okay.
Fair enough.
And then also given the tax changes in the U.K.
North Sea what is your outlook in the region next year? Could activity be down modestly flat or potentially more material? And then also on that tax changes in Russia does it imply incremental activity next year? Well on Russia I think the answer is yes it does.
And in the North Sea this year we certainly haven't noticed any effect on activity of the tax change in the U.K.
And yes I think it could have an effect next year but I also think that there will be considerably more longer discussions between the transfer and this sector in the oil industry before next year comes around.
All right.
And then finally on the Framo acquisition and the purchasing of the remaining 47%.
I believe Framo is the only I guess true competitor of SMC in subsea boosting.
So what's the strategy for owning the company? And are there other complementary subsea businesses that you'd be interested in? I think if you look out to Framo we have been involved with them for over 10 years.
We previously held 52% of the shares of the company and we got the opportunity to buy the remaining part and we took the opportunity.
It's obviously a very well positioned company in terms of their leadership in subsea and boosting which we find interesting.
But beyond that we took the opportunity to buy out the other owners.
All right.
So no other business that you're interested in in conjunction on subsea? Not at this stage no.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Paal I'm a little bit unclear with regard to the pricing commentary on seismic.
You said pricing improving second half of this year does that mean for marine contract engagements commencing next year in terms of tendering activity taking place second half of this year or is it realized pricing? No it will be the contract that we are bidding for.
Now that could be for next season meaning 6 or 9 months away.
Or they could be 2 or 3 months away from the spot market as well.
So I think we are seeing early signs -- we saw early signs now in Q2 or in some isolated market and we believe that the bid pricing that we are submitting that's what's going to be giving us this pricing traction in the second half of the year.
And some of these bids are relatively short term which means they could be implemented in the second half and some of them could be spilling into 2012 as well.
And from a marine contract standpoint where are you seeing the most pronounced vigor and appetite and sort of potential pricing inflection? Which regions? We see strength in marine activity actually worldwide.
We just have to continue into 2012.
So that's the North Sea the Bering Sea Angola Brazil Asia Australia.
So it's obviously with the -- if the lease sale when the lease sale is announced in the Gulf of Mexico that's going to draw a significant amount of multiclient activity back into the Gulf which there is going to give some pricing traction.
But also that's going to have a spill-on effect back to the places that I just referred to.
Got it.
So we shouldn't read too much into the fact that WesternGeco's backlog was actually down quarter-on-quarter? No I wouldn't read anything into that.
Okay.
Secondly with regard to a couple of sort of regional markets.
Manifa Paal are you willing to share one what the well costs are there that you are drilling? And two where your current rig count is and what the targeted rig count is going to be? So in terms of the well cost I'm not able to share that.
I don't have the exact number of the rig count that we own now.
The main thing that is clear is that for the Manifa project the rig counts are going up.
They started to go up this quarter they will continue to go up in the second half of the year.
A significant part of the increase is going to be on the land rigs or the rigs on the causeway yes it's the contract that we hold.
And these are the high intensity or complex ERD wells.
So in that sense our activity outlook for Saudi Arabia is very positive on that basis.
Okay.
And then lastly for me Mexico any updated observations here with regard to the outlook there please? Yes so on the land side we shut down the Burgos project as planned in the second quarter.
The IPM project Mesozoic [indiscernible] continues with the recount that we have then are pretty stable.
The production management contracts or the production incentive contracts are currently out the 60s that are out for bid.
We're going to participate and the submissions are due there in September so that will be an interesting business model to try out in Mexico.
We saw a significant ramp-up in offshore activity during the second quarter.
And this is the shallow water offshore activity.
And that ramp-up of rigs is actually set to continue into H2.
So we're quite upbeat on the offshore part of Mexico as well it's going to be very interesting to see how these production incentive contracts pan out.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Just wanted to follow up as it relates to the revenue and margin improvement we saw sequentially in the Eastern Hemisphere 2Q.
Is that mostly just a snapback as you guys see it from the seasonal declines in the first quarter? Or have we started to see some of the improving operating fundamentals really creep into the results yet I guess my first question? And second given the pricing and mixing outlook I think expectation has been kind of a back half of '11 to be more of a volume-led margin expansion story.
I'm just curious if there's anything that you guys see in the Eastern Hemisphere as far as a sharper margin inflection in the back half of the year or is that still pretty much a 2012 story.
I think I was quite clear in the commentary that we -- it's not general yet but individually on small contracts pricing improvements have begun.
And I think that I don't see any reason why that would go away now Bill.
Now there is a snapback effect partly in EMEA of Australia and Egypt but it's not significant in the overall picture.
And yes you have definite activity pickup.
And what I would point out to you we pointed out at the beginning is that a lot of the pickup was in characterization and therefore that tells you that a lot of the pickup is beginning at some of these exploration campaigns that we've been waiting for.
And maybe just adding to that I agree with what Andrew is saying.
I think that if you look at the sequential margins overseas there's really 2 main components one is that the volume is actually going up.
And the way we are set up with our and our infrastructure we are actually able to leverage the volume and the fixed costs we have to generate good fall-through even on a relatively flat pricing right? That's #1.
And #2 as Andrew alluded to the part of the company that grew very well was the Reservoir Characterization where the average margins are obviously higher than for the other 2 product groups.
Sure.
My one follow-up would be given the pricing outlook here internationally typically it's been more of a longer-term contracting type market.
I'm just curious is there an opportunity as you saw in incremental contracts to structure these in more shorter term-type periods to generate more leverage for yourself in capturing this pricing inflection? Or is this still going to be a market dominated by longer-term contracts and that kind of uplifts based on up-selling and technology additions? It's more of the latter.
Yes it's more of the latter.
Generally these contracts have one fixed term and then options for our customers to take several right? So I think the way they bid it is basically up to them and that [indiscernible].
So I think there's going to be a major change to how the contracting is done.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandall from Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> Andrew I'm going to ask you to look backwards and look forwards what are you most proud of of your accomplishments over the last 9 years? And what do you think the biggest challenges for Paal are going forward? I don't think I can single out any particular achievement I'm more proud of that others.
I think if I am going to single out anything it's the quality of the management team and the depth of the management team not just the first and second level but even the third and fourth level that I'm leaving behind.
It's a people business.
And I think that Paal has -- Paal and I have been discussing this for a long time and it was quite conscious that we did the Smith acquisition 18 months before I retired so he didn't have to worry too much about a strategic M&amp;A for the first few years.
He can just execute.
And I think that given the state we're in in the cycle provided the economies hold together he can -- the capacity to execute will be fundamental to the company's growth and results for the next 2 or 3 years.
LLC</strong> In past cycles it seems to me as you look back Andrew one of the primary ways of improving international margins particularly in reservoir valuation was to introduce new technology at higher price points.
Do you expect that to be a driver at this cycle and do you think that over the next 12 months that there should be a heavy period of new tool upgrades and introductions into the markets? So as we pointed out in Boston in February this year is a better year than last year.
And so far the key introductions that we've made this year are going good.
But as we also pointed out in Boston 2012 should be a much stronger year for new introductions than 2011.
And a lot of the introductions not necessarily all in reservoir evaluation ought to do with drilling efficiencies and a lot of them are the results of the Smith acquisition.
And in a high activity market drilling efficiency is worth an awful lot of money to our customers so I'm quite confident that that will play a major part in the next cycle as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One final question many of your big competitors are adding frac equipment in North America as quickly as they can.
How would you say your equipment-adding strategy differs from them? I don't think it does but I'll let Paal comment on that.
No I think we well we generally believe that there is opportunity to bring service intensity down from this brute force approach we have to share development.
We are still pursuing both sides of the equation there.
And so while we continue to promote the workflow that I alluded to in my comment we are also adding significant horsepower this year into our Pressure Pumping business.
So as I mentioned in my commentary we added in the first half of this year more horsepower than we've done in any full year previously.
And I think that just basically signals that we are part of this thing as well.
LLC</strong> And Paal how significant do you think the whole sliding sleeve technology area will be in the business and what are Schlumberger's plans here? Well we are looking at this technology as well.
But I think that there's a few things that this sliding sleeve technology that I think needs to still be clarified right? I mean the main thing the sliding sleeve technology does is that it groups several frac stages into one larger stage.
It means that all the substages of this larger stage is one hydraulic system.
So what it means is that you will need more horsepower more peak horsepower to frac this mega-stage in one go.
So that's only significant for the pressure pumping company and you can also do more jobs within one unit over time.
But I think that the jury is out on how the economics are going to look for our customers on this and also what the impact on production is going to be like.
So we are looking at it but I think it is yet another thing that might add intensity to the whole equation.
But I think one of the things we need to look at as an industry is to see how we can get the intensity down and be more succinct in how we pursue these things.
And your final question today comes from the line of Jeff Keeberts [ph] from Whedon [ph].
A couple of questions.
Multiclient.
What percentage over the last 12 months -- what percentage of multiclient is revenues being generated outside of the U.S.? I don't know the answer off the top of my head Jeff.
Do you know it Simon? You mean over the last...
Outside over the last 12 months non-Gulf of Mexico.
Let me give you a choice.
25% 50% or 75%? It's more -- it's sub-50%.
For this quarter for your information it's more like 80%.
Compared to the North America yes? It will be 80% of the North America.
At last quarter sorry if you look at the last quarter just to add more information it was 60% of the North America.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Half the year we are about 70%.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay great.
In terms of bigger picture in the international market.
I think you were clear Andrew in regards to the tone.
It's gotten materially better.
Can you point to anything in particular that has caused that to happen over the last 3 months? In terms of the international market Jeff? Yes.
Well I think just the obvious ones like Iraq and Saudi.
And then there's the less obvious ones is North Sea which has done better I think than we originally thought.
And then I would say that the perhaps one of the biggest surprises is East Asia where an awful lot of activity has been directed towards improving production at higher oil prices.
And frankly it may not be the opinion of Paal but I'm surprised -- I knew Latin America would be strong but I'm quite surprised how strong it is because it's not just Brazil.
Okay.
And then just to clarify in Saudi and Iraq obviously they're strong but are they materially stronger than what you were expecting? Well obviously Saudi is.
And of course the other thing that's really nice in Saudi is when they go into production enhancement or work over to increase production it generates very high volumes very quickly.
Okay.
Well that was kind of my related question as you talk about pricing leverage a little bit of a variant on the question about seismic earlier.
Is that pricing leverage that's going -- that's being reflected in contracts you're signing right now that will appear to us 2 3 quarters from now? Or is it...
Yes the question is going to be whether or not to really allow you guys to see it.
In other words as I said earlier on it's on the small contracts at the moment that we get leverage not on the big ones.
Got you.
Okay.
And shifting to North America since I'm the last question I get to go for longer.
What percentage of your frac horsepower is on 24/7 operations in the U.S.
today? I don't have a number for you on that but I mean we are continuing to convert the 12-hour cruise into 24 hours.
But I don't have the number for you.
And maybe Malcolm can come back to you.
Do you think it's anywhere close to 50%? I don't think it's 50%.
It's sub-50% for sure.
And rising though? And rising yes.
And then in terms of your comment Paal about the pricing momentum in the North American market is now greater for D&amp;M and Wireline than pressure pumping.
Could you maybe just elaborate a little bit there that's I think somewhat surprising? Well I would just say I mean it still doesn't mean that we don't have pricing momentum on pressure pumping.
It's just that the other services which is actually quite a significant part of our portfolio in North America is starting to show some very nice contribution to the overall picture as well in terms of moving margin and also contributing to growth.
So we have a very strong position on both the drilling side and to a certain extent on Wireline on land but obviously very much offshore.
And these things are now starting to make significant contribution as well in terms of the quarter-to-quarter momentum.
If we were to just focus on the land market would that statement still be true? For drilling yes.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Greg will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:30 Central Time today through August 22.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 202491.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Malcolm Theobald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keely.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Today's call is being hosted from the Schlumberger-Doll Research Center in Cambridge Massachusetts.
Joining us on the call today are Andrew Gould Chairman; Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paul.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paul will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Third quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges was $0.98 per share.
This is an increase of $0.11 sequentially and $0.28 compared to the same quarter of last year.
During the quarter we recorded $0.02 of charges relating to the continuing integration of Smith and Geoservices.
Pretax operating income for Oilfield Services was $1.93 billion.
This represents a $182 million sequential increase.
Oilfield Services pretax operating income margin improved 77 basis points to 20.2%.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by product group were as follows: Third quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.5 billion and pretax operating income of $610 million were both flat sequentially.
Revenue increases in Wireline and Testing Services due to strong exploration activity were offset in large part by WesternGeco which was significantly impacted by lower marine vessel utilization on account of seasonal transits and higher docking time as well as the startup delays in land seismic activities in the Middle East and Asia.
Pretax margins were also flat at 24.5% as the improvements in Wireline and Testing Services due to an improved revenue mix were offset by the impact of the vessel transits and project delays in WesternGeco.
Drilling Group third quarter revenue of $3.6 billion were 6% higher sequentially while pretax operating income improved by almost 14% to $613 million.
The revenue increase was led by M-I SWACO on higher activities in U.S.
land unconventional plays combined with increases in deepwater activity in the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil for both M-I SWACO and Drilling &amp; Measurements.
Pathfinder revenue grew on U.S.
land while other technologies improved following last quarter's spring break-up in Canada.
Drilling Group pretax margin improved sequentially by 111 basis points to 16.7% as a result of the higher-margin offshore activities the seasonal rig count recovery in Canada and better pricing and operating efficiencies in IPM.
Third quarter Reservoir Production revenue of $3.37 billion increased 10.2% sequentially while pretax operating income improved by 15.5% to $707 million.
Revenue increased sequentially largely due to higher Well Services activities following the spring break-up in Canada.
Well Services also had a strong performances on land in the U.S.
as well as in Latin America and the Europe/CIS/Africa areas.
Reservoir Production pretax margin improved 1 percentage point to 21% primarily on Well Services increases in Canada and higher asset utilization in U.S.
land.
Revenue for the Distribution segment increased almost 10% sequentially to $698 million and the business contributed $31 million of pretax operating income.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
It's worth noting that the results in our Europe/CIS/Africa area continue to be burdened by cost relating to the Libya geo market.
These costs adversely impacted the quarter's results by just over $0.01 per share.
In addition we lost $0.02 per share on the revaluation of certain foreign currencies denominated assets and liabilities as a result of the significant strengthening of U.S.
dollar against many currencies at the very end of the quarter.
The impact of the revaluation process typically does not have a significant impact on us.
However this quarter the foreign exchange movements in September were quite extraordinary so I wanted to highlight this to you.
Schlumberger effective tax rate excluding charges was 23.7% as compared to 24.8% in the second quarter.
The ETR for the full year is still expected to be in the mid-20s.
We ended the quarter with $6.3 billion of cash and investments on hand and short-term debt of $2.7 billion.
Net debt was $5.2 billion at the end of the quarter compared to $4.3 billion at the end of last quarter.
During the quarter we took advantage of the low interest rate environment to issue $1.1 billion of 5-year notes that bear interest at 1.95% $1.6 billion of 10-year notes that bear interest at 3.3% and $300 million of 3-year floating rate notes.
Other significant liquidity events during the quarter included capital expenditure of $1 billion $811 million of stock repurchases as well as the acquisition of the remaining equity interest in Framo engineering.
During the quarter we repurchased 9.9 million shares at an average price of $81.86.
CapEx for the -- all of Schlumberger is still expected to approach $4.2 billion in 2011.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our overall third quarter results continue to show solid progress reflecting the trends we indicated in previous quarters.
In North America we saw strong growth on land and offshore supported by a sequential increase in rig count and with further pricing momentum building in our Wireline and Drilling-related product lines.
In the international markets deepwater and exploration activity continue to strengthen coinciding with a number of high-profile discoveries in several of the key basins around the world.
While the international rig count continued to grow we also saw early signs of pricing traction in our Wireline and Drilling &amp; Measurements product lines during the quarter.
In North America we had a strong quarter with 15% sequential growth and with margins up 179 basis points.
The results were driven by 3 things: first strong seasonal growth in Canada where the rig count currently is 31% higher than the same time last year; second by solid growth in deepwater Gulf of Mexico where we continue to lead the market in both share and technical performance; and third by continued growth in liquids-rich shale basins on land in the U.S.
The product line with the highest sequential revenue growth in North America was Wireline driven by land and deepwater activity and further supported by continued pricing traction.
Our Drilling product lines also saw strong revenue growth and pricing momentum during the quarter driven by Pathfinder Smith drill bits M-I SWACO and Drilling &amp; Measurements.
In pressure pumping our completed stage count grew by more than 20% during the quarter as we added a number of new frac fleets to the market and continue to convert crews from 12- to 24-hour operations.
During the quarter pressure pumping pricing began flattening in the liquids-rich basins while we saw modest downwards pricing pressure in the gas basins.
At WesternGeco we continued shooting the Dual Coil survey in the Western Gulf of Mexico.
We also started commercial trials of our new land seismic system UniQ in one of the U.S.
shale basins.
This was link to the Reservoir Characterization workflow we are introducing to the shale markets.
Multiclient sales in North America remained at normal levels for the quarter.
Following the strong second quarter performance in the international markets we saw a sequential growth in revenue of 2% in the third quarter while margins contracted by 56 basis points.
This is in line with a comment made in our second quarter earnings call where we stated that international growth would not follow a straight line.
Our Q3 results were also impacted by the sequential performance of WesternGeco particularly in the Middle East and Asia.
In the Middle East and Asia area revenue contracted by 4% sequentially and margins were down 276 basis points.
This was driven by WesternGeco where we experienced significant start-up delays on several of our large land seismic projects.
Multiclient sales were down sequentially and marine revenue was also down in the region due to dry docking of vessels and vessels transferring out of the regions as they completed their surveys.
Excluding WesternGeco we still saw a sequential revenue growth in MEA driven by Iraq Saudi Arabia and East Asia.
In Iraq we continued our strong performance in both revenue growth and margins.
During the quarter we won 3 new significant contracts that we have already started to mobilize.
We are also continuing to bring the Smith product lines into the country as well as further building our presence in Kurdistan.
In Saudi Arabia the ramp-up plans for new rigs remain in place with some limited slippage.
In addition rig-less activity in Saudi Arabia showed strong growth both in pressure pumping as well as in Wireline and intervention services.
In East Asia we saw strong growth in development activity in Malaysia as well as higher exploration activity in Vietnam.
Following the 14% sequential growth in Q2 Latin America posted 5% sequential growth in Q3 while margins contracted by 163 basis points due to changes in the revenue mix.
During the quarter Mexico posted the strongest growth driven by higher IPM activity as well as higher offshore activity.
Argentina also saw robust growth driven by shale gas activity where they conducted a number of frac jobs during the quarter and where we continue to build infrastructure and service capacity.
In Brazil activity remained strong driven by both land and offshore and we secured the main share or the multi-year Petrobras Wireline contract which was awarded during the quarter.
In Europe/CIS/Africa we continue to show good progress with 5% sequential revenue growth and margins up 236 basis points driven by increased demand for our high-end exploration services and further supported by good cost management.
During the quarter Russia reached a new oil production record in the post-Soviet era and activity levels in Western Siberia and Sakhalin continue to see strong growth as overall investment sentiment in our customer base remains positive.
We continued to strengthen our position in the Russian market with the award of all the services for the first project in the Russian Arctic while the integration of the new services from the Eurasia transaction continued to progress on plan.
In the North sea we saw strong growth driven by high-exploration activity in the U.K.
and Greenland partly offset by lower activity in Norway due to annual platform maintenance.
In Poland we performed several multistage frac jobs as part of the ongoing shale gas exploration and appraisal progress and we continue to build infrastructure and service capacity in the country.
Angola saw strong growth in both pre-sold exploration activity and development activity in the main projects.
Activity in North Africa East Africa and the Gulf of Guinea remained flat during the quarter but are currently expected to resume the growth trends in the fourth quarter.
Libya activity remained shut down for the quarter but we currently have people on the ground and expect to resume some activity during the fourth quarter.
Let me now turn to some of the technology highlights of the quarter.
In Reservoir Characterization we have over the past quarters seen the start of a new exploration cycle through the demand for high-end Wireline and well testing services.
Given the complexity and costs of these exploration campaigns the need to de-risk potential prospects is becoming ever more important.
While seismic technology advances have made significant contributions to better evaluate structural risks almost 3/4 of the dry exploration wells are due to lack of understanding of seal and charge risks.
These risks can be better addressed through petroleum system modeling which looks at the formation and movement of hydrocarbons over time.
We are the only provider of a fully software-enabled workflow built on Petrel that cover seismic and petrophysical interpretation as well as petroleum system modeling.
The sale of this workflow is showing very good growth as it allows us to better help our customers reevaluate the exploration potential of mature basins and also further de-risk prospects of frontier areas.
In the Drilling Group the Smith integration continues to progress well and cost and revenue synergies are set to exceed even our revised targets for the year.
The combination of Schlumberger and Smith drilling technologies continue to drive drilling performance for our customers as you can see from the press release.
The Smith transaction also continued to be accretive on an earnings per share basis in the third quarter.
Drilling &amp; Measurements continue to penetrate the market with their latest technologies including the PowerDrive Archer high build rate rotary steerable system the Scope service and the latest MicroScope formation imager.
During the quarter a number of high-profile jobs were conducted successfully with these technologies for customers throughout the world.
In the Reservoir Production group deployment of HiWAY technology in the pressure pumping market continues to grow.
In North America the number of customers using HiWAY had grown from 2 only a year ago to more than 20 today and we completed over 800 stages during the quarter in this market alone.
HiWAY continues to deliver higher gas and liquid production while using significantly less water and proppant compared to conventional fracturing systems.
This provides us with significant pricing and cost leverage versus our competitors a factor that will become even more important when the North America pressure pumping market eventually become saturated with hydraulic horsepower.
I would also add that HiWAY is starting to gain momentum in the international markets including Russia North Africa and the Middle East.
Turning now to the outlook.
The current financial turmoil has already resulted in a lower outlook for oil demand growth in 2012 although demand growth is still expected to exceed that of 2011.
However recent production data as well as forward projections indicate that there is a tight cushion of excess oil supply that will continue to support activity.
Therefore while the financial turmoil introduces some uncertainty over near-term activity it has yet to have an impact on the actual activity of our customers.
We also remain confident that any potential reductions will be short-lived and that the outlook for the service industry remains very positive.
We further believe that our customers' drive to renew reserves as evidenced by the recent string of exploration successes particularly in deepwater offshore areas favors our broad international footprint.
In addition the balance between our Reservoir Characterization Drilling and production technologies both in North America and overseas will enable us to weather any activity fluctuations.
Thank you very much.
I would now hand the call over for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the update on your outlook there and this is what I want to touch a little bit more in depth.
The service talks have hit really a rough patch over the last couple of months.
Investors are clearly concerned about the timing.
International is getting pushed out and North America markets kind of roll.
So I wonder if you could just kind of dig in a little bit more in terms of your outlook over the next 12 to 18 months.
In particular which regions or countries do you think are going to be big drivers? And I guess more specifically kind of what's the tone been like with your NOC customers? Are you getting any sense of their concern?  Are they just going to continue to move ahead with their projects? You mentioned a little slippage in Saudi but it didn't sound like you were all that concerned there.
No.
Just to answer the last part of your question first the feedback we have from our NOC customers is that they are continuing with the programs that they already have in place.
They are clearly long-term investors and the projects that they have is for the long term so we have really seen no change to their plans whatsoever.
Now if I look at the next 12 to 18 months or 2012 in particular firstly at the international market -- so provided that there is no major impact from the European debt crisis on our business and we haven't seen any impact yet we basically maintain quite a positive outlook on the international markets and this is really driven by our customers that have a long-term view in areas such as Saudi Arabia Brazil Russia Iraq and West Africa.
And this trend is also further supported by strong underlying trends in both exploration and deepwater.
I think in exploration there's a clear need to have reserves for our customers after the investment levels over the past 2 3 years have been severely cut.
And I think they are generally encouraged by the string of exploration successes globally that we've seen in the past couple of quarters.
And similarly on the deepwater side 2011 is going to see the highest number of newbuild arrivals ever.
The total number is going to be around 36 which obviously will have a positive impact on the deepwater activity in 2012.
And we also see quite positive trends for contracts for these newbuild arrivals and also for overall utilization and rig rates.
Now if we switch to North America we see basically higher level of uncertainty around North America.
Now in North America we're quite positive on Canada and Gulf of Mexico.
We think both of them are going to be quite strong for the next year and we have obviously very good market positions in both these markets.
So I would say that the main uncertainty we see in North America is around pressure pumping pricing.
And this is linked really to the amount of new horsepower capacity that is coming into the market and there's also some concern on the cost inflation that we are seeing currently.
So I think that's basically a high-level outlook of how I see it.
Andrew do you want to add something on the overall macro view? Yes.
I think we've said before and I'll say again that the thing our customers dislike most just like financial markets is uncertainty.
And I think that you have to assume that before 2012 starts the European Union will come to some sort of resolution on their sovereign debt crisis.
And if you couple that with the fact that actually the supply situation is probably the tightest it's been since 2006 it's certainly tighter now than it was in 2008.
And if you look at the U.S.
inventories yesterday they went below the 5-year average both for products and crude for the first time since 2008.
So absent a really deep cut in demand which would basically mean the developing economies going into recession there's no reason at this point in time to suppose that international activity is not going to remain pretty robust in the year to come.
And I totally subscribe to everything that Paal just said about deepwater exploration.
The rate of success over the last quarter -- 2 quarters and actually ongoing success is really quite remarkable and that's only going to encourage more of it.
Research Division</strong> So Paal as a follow-up on the exploration side you're talking about that picking up.
Is that in your numbers yet in terms of the growth? I mean is there a way to kind of help us understand how much of the growth internationally say over the last several quarter come from exploration? Or is that going to come in as we kind of go through 2012? Is that kind of the real kind of growth part that you're seeing? Some of the exploration activity is obviously in our numbers and if you look at all the discoveries that we've seen in particular over the past quarter.
But I would say there is still significant growth potential in this.
One discovery obviously creates a lot of additional activity around that discovery.
And I think there's also a strong inventory of prospects that our customers are going to pursue.
So I would say that while we have seen some increase in the high-end sales of services for both Wireline and testing and as well as in exploration software over the recent quarters I think there is still significant upside in exploration going into next year.
And we'll go next to the line of Brad Handler at Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'd like to follow-up on the outlook if I may but the first question actually pertains a little bit more to Q4 if we could bring in the time horizon.
I guess really the easy way to put it there's some pretty -- what seems like some pretty aggressive revenue growth outlooks embedded within current consensus thinking on Q4.
So maybe I could ask you to reach beyond what you would normally do with respect to sort of expectation setting and say is it reasonable to expect sort of double-digit growth globally in Q4 on the revenue side? Okay.
So normally we don't go into details of the coming quarter right? So I wouldn't comment specifically on how I see revenue growth going up.
But my general comment would be that there is -- provided there's no significant changes to the plans for Q4 that we see from our customers at this stage we firstly expect Q4 to show continued progress in line with the underlying trends that we have kind of outlined throughout the year.
Looking at the consensus for Q4 I would say though that the current estimates that we see I would say are somewhat on the optimistic side.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that.
I guess as a somewhat related follow-up but going back your commentary about the deepwater rigs coming in the numbers are very impressive.
You talk about floating rigs up.
You're looking at deepwater floaters up 16% year-on-year in terms of supply in '12 by our count.
Is that -- is it reasonable therefore for us to think about your offshore business in '12 as doing somewhat better than that? I mean assuming you're keeping market share and exploration weighted activity helping your relative position.
Is that how you're thinking about the '12 opportunity in the offshore that you could be approaching 20% revenue growth year-on-year? Well again I wouldn't comment straight on the percentage number.
But I would say that I share your positive view on the activity outlook for deepwater.
I think if you look at our market share position it is already quite good.
I would also say that the sell-off potential and the draw on high-end services that I would see going into 2012 for these type of operations is also quite good.
So I think we are very well placed in terms of being on the deepwater rigs and we have a very high I would say value outlook on the -- on our technology portfolio going into next year.
We'll go next to the line of Kurt Hallead at RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you can give us some indication on the Iraqi operations.
What kind of revenue run rate are you right now? And you mentioned that -- you mentioned something about profitability so I guess we can all assume that you are currently profitable and not waiting to be profitable like maybe some of your competitors.
So in that context can you just give us some general sense of kind of what the revenue run rate is in Iraq? And if you were to look at the profitability in Iraq is that above or below what your Middle East Far East margins are currently? Okay.
So looking at the Q3 performance we showed continued progress in terms of activity and we set new records in terms of revenue and margins.
So the numbers I gave you after the Q2 call -- broke [ph] $100 million for the quarter in Q2.
For Q3 we had double-digit revenue growth.
And if you look at the Schlumberger legacy business which makes up over 90% of our Iraqi revenue we have over 20% IBT for the full quarter.
Now for the Smith segments that we are bringing -- we're currently bringing into the country they are somewhat lower because we have significant startup costs as we bring them into the country.
Now during Q3 we also got extensions for several of our existing contracts and we were also awarded 3 new significant contracts that we are already mobilizing for.
So I would say that we are not waiting to be profitable in Iraq.
We are very profitable.
And if you look at that profitability number that I just gave you that is now getting very close to the average of MEA.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then follow-up would be getting a number of questions from varying investors about if you took the seismic impact away for the third quarter what would the international revenue growth rate and what would international margins look like if it were not for the impacts on seismic? And I was wondering if you could provide us with some more color on that.
Once again it is a topic of high interest for a lot that are listening to the call.
No I understand.
So like we said -- like I said in my prepared remarks most of the impact of WesternGeco seismic was -- we saw that in MEA.
There was some limited impact in LAM but not as significant as in MEA.
If you look at MEA and you take seismic out the growth in MEA was pretty much in line with the growth in the rig count and the profitability of MEA was more or less in line with the previous quarter.
Maybe slightly down but more or less in line with the previous quarter.
Our next question will come from the line of Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Andrew I presume this will be your last conference call so I will take the opportunity to kind of tap into your global perspective and backdrop.
And clearly the balance and development in the spare capacity in the oil market near term is of great interest to everybody right now.
And I wonder whether you could share your high-level thoughts there.
Libya is coming back.
Things are going on in Iraq.
North Sea might be coming back.
Should we be concerned about buildup of spare capacity in the global oil market on a say 6 months view? I don't think so.
I mean I don't think any of the single events you mentioned are significant enough to make a fundamental difference in an 85 million 86 million barrel-a-day scenario.
There's always going to be something else that goes down.
None of these are increments that are really going to change the overall balance.
The only thing that would change the overall balance will be a demand drop.
And actually so far the signs of a demand drop even in the OECD are not particularly powerful.
So I don't see it.
I don't see that supply could change the picture in the short term.
And by the way Ole if Paal invites me I will come and say goodbye to you in January.
We'll invite you Andrew.
Research Division</strong> We'd appreciate that.
Any other sort of thoughts Andrew on what you think the market vibe might be under-appreciating now given the amount of stress in your stock and...
Well I think it's not just our stock.
I think a lot of quality stocks there's a dislocation between market sentiment and the underlying realities.
And that dislocation as I sort of said earlier I think is likely due to uncertainty which everybody hates which is why some form of resolution to the European sovereign debt crisis which is going to come is likely to be an event that will settle people's nerves.
But a lot of industries not just ours the fundamentals are not nearly as bad as people seem to imagine.
They are anticipating the worst.
Research Division</strong> Good to hear.
And Paal you did comment on the fourth quarter so you did open that Pandora's box.
You did suggest it was somewhat optimistic.
But is it completely crazy? Or I mean you do have a fourth quarter which is going to be a seismic rebound.
I mean clearly what happened in the Middle East region on contract seismic should normalize.
There are other factors that are seasonally strong in the fourth quarter.
So I mean is it completely crazy? Or is it is slightly optimistic? And I do realize that as the incoming CEO you will not set the bar low so let's get that out of the way.
Well I think we've normally gone further than what we normally do on this.
So I'm not going to go further than what I already said.
I think the current consensus is somewhat on the optimistic side.
And we'll go next to the line of Bill Sanchez at Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Paal I just want to circle back on the Latin America margin performance.
I know you mentioned mix in the quarter here.
Just curious strong revenue quarter yet margins are down in total.
Brazil was mentioned on the Geco side.
You mentioned the IPM project in Mexico.
Can you talk a little bit more about the margin degradation you saw sequentially there and then just near-term outlook there going forward? Just focusing first on the margin I'm not really worried about the Latin America margins.
The reason why it dropped during Q3 is down to the revenue mix.
If you look at where we grew the most it was in Mexico and Argentina and that had some impact on the overall margins.
Brazil was still good.
We had some impact from Columbia as well on an IPM production incentive project there where we had some shortening of production.
But in addition to that the oil price obviously was down during the quarter as well which had some impact.
So when you said the overall underlying margin in Latin America I'm quite comfortable with.
In terms of the outlook I think that's quite positive.
Mexico continues to add rigs offshore and mainly on shallow water but also some in the deepwater.
We've seen a rebound in the IPM activity both on the Mesozoic Aliansan [ph] and Chicontepec which sort of bodes well for our Mexico outlook.
And we also got 1 out of the 3 first production incentive contracts awarded in Mexico as well.
So I would say generally our outlook for Mexico is good.
Brazil as you all know is obviously very strong.
There's a continued influx of deepwater rigs in Q4.
We're probably going to reach up to 64 rigs by year end in Brazil.
All customers are active both Petrobras the IOCs and the independents.
And we're also seeing a pickup in activity in Argentina related to shale gas as well as strong activity both in Colombia and to a certain extent in Venezuela.
So I think overall Latin America is looking strong.
Research Division</strong> And as my follow-up Paal you reiterated again this quarter -- or it was discussed again about North America pricing momentum led by Drilling and Wireline and you made commentary with regard to your pressure pumping outlook.
Do you see the Drilling and Wireline product lines pushing net pricing higher for you in the U.S.
and North America as a whole certainly given your outlook of a more challenging backdrop on the pressure pumping side? Well I think there's still more lag to pricing in both Drilling and Wireline.
I think we're seeing a flattening of pricing to a certain extent on pressure pumping.
I think what is also going to drive the mix of the pricing in North America is Gulf of Mexico which is -- we are now adding one deepwater rig per month.
We have a very strong market share position both on Drilling and on Wireline in the Gulf of Mexico.
So I think the overall pricing for -- both those market segments still have upside on the pricing side in NAM.
Research Division</strong> And enough as you see it given that mix to absorb the cost inflation that seems to be prevalent now in the industry in the U.S.? Well I think cost inflation is one.
But I think what is more interesting is what's going to happen to the pressure pumping pricing.
As at some stage we will approach more than equilibrium in terms of horsepower supply and demand.
And so we are obviously doing what we can to manage the cost inflation on the pressure pumping side.
I think what is going to be more dominant or more important is going to be what happens to the pricing going forward on pressure pumping.
We'll go next to the line of James West of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Paal the issues at WesternGeco this quarter seemed pretty transitory to me.
So I think one is that the case? And then what's the outlook on the seismic business for the rest of this year and into next year? And are we at the point now where you think we can get some real pricing traction on the Marine side? Okay.
So in general I would say that we are still quite positive when it comes our seismic outlook.
Now if you look at the Marine market Q4 and Q1 are normally softer quarters as the vessels finish off mainly the North sea season.
Now this year we were expecting higher activity in West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico and we also expected that this type of activity would offset the seasonal softness or weakness that I just referred to.
And the fact that we would have higher of activity in West Africa and Gulf of Mexico would present some opportunity to test pricing.
Now what we've seen in reality is that the ramp-up of activity in both places have been slower than expected but we don't see this as being structural.
There's basically delay in signing of contracts and also somewhat slower mobilization of additional vessels into the Gulf of Mexico.
So I think we would see the normal softness that we see every year in Q4 and Q1 on Marine.
But looking forward to Q2 and Q3 of 2012 the slate is already filling up quite nicely there.
There's very good tender activity for all the basins: North Sea Barents Sea Angola Brazil and so forth.
So the outlook for 2012 is I think still quite positive.
We were hoping to get some pricing traction at the end of this year.
I think this is now pushed out a couple of quarters.
But beyond that we remain still quite optimistic and positive on the seismic market.
Research Division</strong> And with respect to near-term quarters would the multiclient data library sales offset some of that vessel weakness? I mean would 4Q WesternGeco be weaker than 3Q? I mean 3Q seemed to have more one-off issues.
Yes absolutely.
So the third quarter had a number of one-off issue.
I think overall WesternGeco will be up in Q4 and that would in part be driven by higher multiclient sales.
But I think also some of the issues we had both on land and Marine are being rectified and we will have stronger performance I would say in all product lines of WesternGeco in Q4.
We'll go next to the line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to try to reconcile a little bit just this color on the international growth rates and your optimism.
One of the differences that I see in Schlumberger's portfolio is the mix of rig-less services excluding seismic.
And I was hoping Paal maybe you could contrast sort of growth rates in rig-less capabilities relative to rig count or just sort of general wellbore construction.
And maybe highlight some product and service lines and geographies where growth is perhaps a bit stronger.
Well I would say overall in the rig-less activity we have seen pretty good growth in recent quarters and I expect that to continue into 2012.
I think part of our portfolio that is probably somewhat underestimated is our abilities within rig-less from Wireline cased hole to coiled tubing and to slickline where we have #1 market positions in all of these product lines.
So I'm -- we are putting a lot of effort into growing this part of our business and I'm quite optimistic in terms of how these product lines are going to perform going into next year.
And I think where you'll probably see more on growth in these type of product lines is partly on land.
Now there's also opportunities offshoring it right? But generally I think we'll see strong growth in the rig-less activity going into next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Stronger than wellbore construction do you think? Well I think there's still some uncertainty around wellbore constructions when it comes overall rig count and so forth.
But I thought this is more independent to the rig count right? So it all depends on what happens on the rig count growth.
It's a bit difficult to say.
But the fact that it's going to represent strong growth I'm quite confident in.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Andrew maybe I could address the second one to you.
As it pertains to some of the technologies around completion I think that you sort of set the high bar of expectation in terms of the migration of moving from brute force to more intelligent drilling and completion activity.
But it strikes me as we move in that direction that -- with HiWAY and the reference to COPPERHEAD in the press release that there's a portfolio of capabilities call them incremental technologies that are moving us in that direction and sort of getting away from just pure horsepower more immediately than sort of waiting for the drill-perfect kind of solution.
Can you talk about that portfolio perhaps and put COPPERHEAD and HiWAY within that context? I think what -- it's perhaps important to start by saying is that when I said brute force and ignorance I never for a moment imagined that hydraulic fracturing is going to disappear.
But firstly proper characterization will reduce the necessity to geometrically frac in order to obtain a correct IP and therefore eliminate a large amount of waste.
And products like HiWAY or COPPERHEAD or other things that we're working on in Well Services in particular will serve to provide as HiWAY does a better frac but using less proppant sand chemical and all the rest of it.
So we don't -- we're not for a minute -- that we're going to apply the unconventional just to our Reservoir Characterization workflow.
It is also technology we're working on in both pressure pumping and in completions.
It's a suite.
But the big step forward and you may have noticed as well that Paal referred in his commentary to the fact that we now have a unique seismic spread in one of the unconventional basins on land in North America which is beginning to show that -- the appreciation that proper characterization before you start frac-ing is going to save you a lot of money.
LLC Research Division</strong> So is it fair to say that in effect the value creation comes from not just the application of more intelligence and characterization but also in the reduction of capital intensity? Absolutely absolutely.
I'm still convinced that long term the cost of producing unconventional gas is going to decline.
We'll go next to the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Paal and I guess Simon as well.
In light of your commentary Paal with regard to a transition in pressure pumping pricing in North America likely at hand how should we think about the 2012 capital spending budget at this juncture? Is it likely to be up year-over-year? Or what's the likely path on that front? So if you look at our original plans for 2012 we were looking to add from the 2011 levels.
We are maintaining our capacity to add both from a supplier and from a manufacturing standpoint.
I'm not talking about global CapEx.
To what extent we will add I think is going to be a function of what comes out of the budgeting cycle of our customers.
But generally we are maintaining our capacity to add CapEx going into 2012.
Research Division</strong> All right so capital spending translation is likely higher year-over-year.
I think it generally will be higher.
To what level higher I think we'll come back to you in a quarter's time.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then secondly you guys I think have been sensibly balanced if you will with regard to the evolution of the development of the international unconventional resource.
And yet you read through this release and you have more than a few wins here with regard to what's going on in Poland in Argentina and using HiWAY in North Africa and what have you.
Do you have an update with regard to what your expected timeline is with regard to the blossoming of the unconventional play? And is it evolving more quickly than what you thought maybe a couple of quarters ago? So I think we've always been I would say positive on the outlook for unconventional resources internationally.
If you look at some of the reports coming back the estimated resource base for unconventional gas overseas is 6x that of the U.S.
So I think we've always been positive on that.
I think the main thing we've been saying is firstly that we're going to have to go through a phase of exploration and appraisal to understand these resources internationally.
And I think also the approach to how they are going to be developed are going to be different than what we do in North America and more in line with what Andrew just described which is focused on a more scientific approach where there is more upfront investment in the characterization and also it's going to have to be focused on using less resources for the drilling and completions of these wells as well.
So we are actively pursuing all these exploration and appraisal projects in all parts of the world whether this is Argentina Colombia Canada Poland India and China and so forth right? So we are I think very well placed to play a strong role in the international shale market.
I think the volume of activity is still going to take some time before it gets there but I think there's been encouraging results from the exploration and appraisal projects.
So I think the outlook is positive but it's not going to be as significant as what we have seen in North America over the 4 -- in the past 4 or 5 years in the coming years at least.
Research Division</strong> Okay and if I could slip on in here with Simon.
Simon do you have handy what the sequential revenue increase was in U.S.
and Canada respectively? Of course I have them.
But we've seen the 15% overall NAM increase and we'll leave it at that.
I'm not going to separate it between Canada and the U.S.
but Canada had a significant increase obviously because of the spring break-up.
We'll go next to the line of Jim Crandell at Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Andrew and Paal you spoke very positively about the outlook for deepwater.
And one of your -- I believe one of your competitors said the most competitive pricing part of the market was in deepwater and on longer contracts and you talked about some improvement.
Are you actually seeing some improvement in the deepwater area in terms of pricing? Or is that an area that's not really shown improvement in pricing and you're getting it somewhere else? Well if you look at the deepwater pricing the -- I would say it's still generally competitive.
But I think what we see on the deepwater side is that there is a continued I would say value puts on our technology and the integrity that we have of our operations right? So in some cases we are able to get a pricing premium for the performance that we are able to offer up on these very highly expensive rigs.
There's also been an increase though on the high-end services that we offer up as part of the contracts on these rigs right? So I think overall pricing on deepwater we are -- I'm quite happy with.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Paal what -- different subject but what new or recent technology introduction with Schlumberger let's say over the last year to 18 months do you feel will have the biggest commercial impact on the company in 2012? Well I don't know.
If I single out one then I'm going to get a lot of my segments upset right so I'm going to have to be careful with that.
But I would say that if I look at some of the key introductions that we've done over the past year I would say for Wireline I have a lot of hope and faith in the Dielectric Scanner.
I think what this can offer up in terms of high-end petrophysical evaluations is going to be good.
I referenced in my prepared remarks several D&amp;M technologies: PowerDrive Archer MicroScope SonicScope.
These are all I think going to have -- they're going to create very good value for Drilling &amp; Measurement.
We've also introduced several new drill bits technologies in particular the spare bits which is focused in on unconventionals which I think is going to be good.
And obviously HiWAY without saying has a very significant impact today.
And I think as we continue to widen the customer base for HiWAY it's going to have a very significant impact on pressure pumping both in North America and overseas.
And then one other key technology which again Andrew referenced is the UniQ land seismic.
This is a single-sensor land seismic system where you can basically house up to 100 000 channels and it's going to give us a lot better quality images for both structure and also for endorsing the rest of our properties.
And then the last part which I also referenced in my prepared remarks is our abilities now in terms of exploration software and petroleum system modeling.
These are some of the key technologies that we have introduced which I have a lot of faith in going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and one quick one for Andrew.
Andrew after the elections in Mexico would you expect drilling in Chicontepec to come back significantly? And if so what sort of form do you think the contracts could take over there? Look I don't think that the elections have a huge impact on spending in Chicontepec.
What will have an impact on spending in Chicontepec and so far we don't seem to have a clear case is a method of improving their recovery from this reservoir which as you know is extremely difficult.
And while there are lots of different experiments going on I don't think there's a conclusion on it yet.
So I don't think the election will have any effect.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so you really would not expect at this point Chicontepec to come back to any meaningful extent in 2012.
Only if Pemex is satisfied that one of the technologies that they're applying to improve recovery is really working.
We'll go next to the line of Angie Sedita at UBS.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Clearly the international and deepwater recoveries is far and away the bigger story for Schlumberger.
But on North America you touched on the uncertainty in pressure pumping pricing.
Given the capacity that we're adding today and next year do you think in a flat rig market in the U.S.
that we could reach a balanced or oversupply scenario in 2012? And then your thoughts on your North American margins in a flat rig market in 2012.
So in terms of trying to predict when we're getting to horsepower balance in terms of supply and demand I'm not going to do that.
I -- obviously with a flatter rig count it's likely to happen sooner but I'm not going to venture out and say exactly when that's going to happen.
I think the impact on pricing will be a function of when it happens but it's also going to be a question of when we think it's going to happen.
So I think you will have impact on pricing even before you actually get to saturation right? If you look at our plans with that backdrop we are at this stage continuing to add horsepower and we will continue to add horsepower until we see an actual change in the market that being either change to our customer plans or change to the utilization of our assets.
And we haven't really seen anything in terms of these changes yet.
But we are continuing to add and the reason for this is that we are actually looking to gain pressure pumping market share.
And we are looking to gain share through our HiWAY technology and also by bundling our pressure pumping with the shale reservoir characterization workflow that we have highlighted right? So we are continuing to add the function of when the supply and demand is going to meet in horsepower.
I'm not going to make a prediction on when it's going to happen.
It will eventually happen.
I think that's what I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then a follow-up to that.
So the horsepower that you're adding are you -- are your plans only for the first 6 months of the year? Or is it so far for the full year? And then how much of your frac fleet is under term today? Well we have a relative flexible way of handling how we add the resources right? So we have a very good relationship with our suppliers here.
So we are looking out for -- in various time horizons.
So I'm not going to say exactly how we're going to add quarter-by-quarter.
But we are -- we have the capacity to add throughout next year if we choose to.
In terms of what part of contracts we have on terms there's still a good mix between our spot market and longer-term contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then touching back on the fourth quarter.
You touched on revenues but a little bit on margins.
Broadside on North America with the seasonality going into Q4 could you see some modest margin pressure just due to the holidays? And then thoughts on your international margins for Q4.
In Q3 you were at 18%.
With the seasonal jump in Q4 could you move to the 20% range? Well I'm going to have to give you the same answer I gave to Ole right.
We have already ventured further off than what we typically do in indicating what's going to happen to the next quarter.
So I would just reiterate that the EPS consensus estimate at this stage is probably on the optimistic side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally in the international markets is there any market that you're concerned that may be slow or sluggish versus the areas that you pointed out that should be quite strong in 2012? No I think in general not.
We've indicated in the Q2 call that the growth in international market is not going to be linear.
So you will always potentially have an off quarter in some of these markets.
But generally I don't have any particular concerns in any parts of the international market in terms of the growth potential.
Research Division</strong> The U.K.
North Sea should be...
I get it; I get it.
Cut her off.
Research Division</strong> The outlook for the U.K.
North Sea should be okay flat not down.
Angie it's Andrew.
Can I remind you our rules? It's one question and one follow-up.
And we do need to get our last question in.
Thank you Angie.
And our last question will come from the line of Geoff Kieburtz at Weeden &amp; Co.
LP Research Division</strong> Paal just to clarify a comment I think you made during your prepared comments that pressure pumping pricing has flattened in the liquids market and declined in the gas regions.
If that's right then pressure pumping prices fell in the third quarter.
Can you clarify what you said earlier? I was saying that the pressure pumping pricing in the liquids-rich basins was flattening during the quarter but we saw a modest drop in prices in the gas basin.
LP Research Division</strong> So overall pressure pumping prices still climbed in the third quarter.
Slightly.
They climbed slightly yes.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And not to be too cute Schlumberger has forecasted a rolling over of pressure pumping margins and pricing several times in the past.
What -- and I understand your point that it will happen at some point but are you seeing things -- and perhaps it's just what you just said the pricing -- that makes you more certain that it is going to happen and it's going to happen in a reasonably near future? So again I'm not saying that it's going to happen in the near future.
I'm just saying that during the third quarter we saw flattening of the liquids-rich basin pricing which we haven't seen in recent quarter -- quarters.
And I'm also saying that there is a significant amount of horsepower coming into the market as we speak and also going into next year.
So my concern on the North America outlook is what is going to happen to pressure pumping pricing.
LP Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And on HiWAY kind of a technical question I guess.
My recollection was at the analyst event this year that at that time HiWAY wasn't delivering a reduction in water usage but now clearly it is.
Is HiWAY -- should we be thinking about HiWAY as still an evolving and developing technology? I think absolutely.
So whether you reduce only proppant or whether you reduce proppant water and potentially horsepower is a function of how you design your jobs and it's also a function of what type of jobs -- what conventional type of jobs you are replacing right? So that's one thing.
But I think to your second point it is clearly an evolving technology.
We are putting a lot of effort into the application range of HiWAY and we are also putting a lot of effort into how we design the jobs to be -- to make it even more impactful in terms of how it can reduce resources and basically provide more production for less.
So yes it is clearly evolving.
And I'm actually very optimistic with the traction we are now getting with the customer base.
With any new technology and I would say also maybe in particular in North America land it takes time to break through and penetrate the market with a new technology.
And I think we are starting to get some good traction.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could squeeze a third one in here please.
On the international pricing the Texas early signs of pricing traction specifically for Wireline and D&amp;M.
This is -- it seems on the surface to be quite similar to the comments that have been made in prior quarters.
Can you point to something specific that's changed? Or is it just that we continue to be in this state that it looks imminent? No I think what we said in the earlier quarters is that we expected to see pricing traction towards the end of this year.
That's what we said earlier.
And what I'm saying this quarter is that we are actually seeing some signs of it.
There's really 2 signs I would highlight.
First of all higher demand and higher sales of our high-end technology.
So there's a lot more salable technology from basic technology to high end.
And secondly we are also testing pricing on specific contracts typically smaller contracts with reasonable success.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Keely will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
Central Time today running through November 21 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 211522.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Malcolm Theobald.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Results Conference Call.
Joining us on the call are Andrew Gould Chairman; Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared statements will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.11 per share.
This is an increase of $0.13 sequentially and $0.26 compared to the same quarter last year.
We recorded $0.06 of charges relating to asset write-offs in Libya and the continuing integration of Smith.
During the quarter we were able to physically assess the status of our assets in Libya.
This assessment resulted in us recording a pretax and after-tax charge of $60 million relating to certain assets that are no longer recoverable as a result of the political unrest.
Pursuant to our integration plan the Smith integration team which has done an excellent job will remain in place throughout 2012.
As a result we will continue to incur merger and integration charges during 2012 that we will continue to highlight separately.
Oilfield Services fourth quarter revenue of $10.3 billion increased 8% sequentially.
Of this $755 million sequential increase approximately 20% of this growth came from the traditional year-end surge in product and software sales and 19% came from the significant sequential increase in WesternGeco multiclient sales.
Oilfield Services pretax income of $2.2 billion increased 12.3% sequentially while pretax operating margins improved 82 basis points.
Notably revenue pretax income and margins all improved on a sequential basis across each of the 3 product groups and the 4 geographical areas.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by group -- by product group were as follows.
Fourth quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.8 billion increased 12% sequentially and margins improved 340 basis points to 27.9%.
These increases were due to very strong WesternGeco multiclient sales robust end-of-year SIS software sales and the strong exploration activity at Wireline.
Drilling Group fourth quarter revenue of $3.9 billion increased 6.3% sequentially while margins remained essentially flat at 16.8%.
Revenue growth was led by M-I SWACO with strong performances in North America and Latin America.
IPM had a very strong quarter particularly in Mexico and Iraq while D&amp;M posted strong results in U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and Europe/CIS/Africa area.
Fourth quarter Reservoir production revenue of $3.6 billion increased 6.7% sequentially while pretax margin improved 36 basis points to 21.3%.
These increases were primarily attributable to the strong Completion and Artificial Lift product sales across all areas.
Well Services revenue continued to grow as a result of capacity additions.
The Distribution segment contributed $685 million of revenue and $26 million of pretax operating income.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 23.8% as compared to 23.7% in the third quarter.
We expect the ETR for the full year 2012 to be in the mid-20s.
However this can vary on a quarterly basis due to the geographical mix of earnings.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $4.85 billion as compared to $5.16 billion at the end of Q3 representing $314 million improvement.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.25 billion of CapEx $636 million of stock repurchases and $242 million of pension and retiree medical contributions.
CapEx is expected to approach $4.5 billion in 2012 as compared to the $4 billion we spent in 2011.
Yesterday our board of directors approved a 10% increase in our annual dividend to $1.10 per share.
This follows last year's 19% increase and reflects our commitment to return excess cash to our shareholders.
During the full year 2011 we repurchased 36.9 million shares at an average price of $81.15 for a total of $3 billion.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our overall fourth quarter results showed solid sequential growth driven by stronger activity for most of our service product lines and by stronger product sales for Completions Artificial Lift SIS and WesternGeco multiclient seismic.
In North America we had a strong quarter with 6% sequential revenue growth and margins up 163 basis points.
This was led by continued growth in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico where market share momentum remained strong for our high-value technology offering and where operational performance was extremely solid.
During the quarter we moved a second wide-azimuth seismic fleet into the Gulf of Mexico and we saw strong multiclient sales.
In North America land revenue grew in line with rig count while margins increased moderately driven in part by internal efficiencies and active cost management.
Pricing in our Wireline and Drilling product lines continued to show an upward trend although slowing somewhat compared to previous quarters.
In pressure pumping downwards pricing pressure in the gas basins continued in the fourth quarter while pricing in the liquids and liquids-rich basins remained more or less flat excluding the impact of continued conversion to 24-hour operations.
In the international markets revenue grew almost 9% sequentially while margins were up by 91 basis points.
Growth was driven by deepwater and exploration activity in East and West Africa and by strong land activity in the Middle East and North Africa.
During the quarter we secured a number of key contracts that further strengthens our international position.
This includes a shale gas contract covering stimulation and project management for a pilot well campaign in the Middle East.
We have already deployed a team of shale explorers to the country and we have started to mobilize assets and prepare the project infrastructure.
In terms of pricing bidding remained competitive on large tenders for standard technology while we saw positive pricing signs in selected smaller tenders in Wireline and Drilling &amp; Measurements.
Our pricing upside continues to be driven mainly by technology and operational performance.
In Marine seismic we saw the predicted seasonal drop in vessel utilization during the quarter.
However utilization for the coming quarters is already looking strong driven by higher activity in West Africa the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico.
WesternGeco backlog grew to $1 billion in the quarter.
In Middle East and Asia revenue grew by 7% sequentially while margins were up 124 basis points driven mainly by the land business in the Middle East.
In Saudi Arabia the ramp-up of rigs progressed in line with plans during the quarter and we saw strong growth in both rig-related and rigless activity.
In Iraq sequential growth was again solid led by further startup of rigs and strong activity on both ongoing IPM projects and on individual product line contracts.
Oman also showed very good sequential growth driven by Artificial Lift and Wireline.
In Latin America revenue grew by 11% sequentially while margins were up by 15 basis points.
Sequential growth was led by Mexico where offshore activity increased and where land activity on IPM projects was strong.
During the quarter we signed our first production incentive contract with Pemex covering the Carrizo Field with operations expected to start at the end of the second quarter.
In Argentina we have established a very strong position in the emerging shale plays.
So far we have conducted a large part of the shale fracturing jobs in the country.
And during the quarter we secured a number of new service contracts in this market.
In Brazil another 4 deepwater rigs were added during the quarter with a total now standing at 64.
There continues to be active bidding for Petrobras.
And during the quarter we were awarded the largest share of the new mud logging contract.
On land activity remained strong driven by IPM projects for OGX and Petro.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue grew 8% sequentially and margins were up 125 basis points.
During the quarter we saw strong growth in activity in Angola Nigeria and East Africa driven by both deepwater exploration and the major development projects.
Based on the positive results on the first pre-salt exploration wells in Angola we expect strong growth in West Africa going forward.
In Russia we saw solid offshore activity in Sakhalin although this was partly offset by the start of the winter slowdown in Russia land.
The integration of services from the Eurasia transaction is progressing well and our preferred vendor agreement with Eurasia Drilling offers a strong growth platform in the active Western Siberia market.
In Libya activity restarted early in the quarter with the initial focus on Wireline coiled tubing and Artificial Lift services.
Our infrastructure field assets and workforce are fully operational and we expect to see steady activity growth over the coming year.
Let me now turn to some of the technology highlights of the quarter.
In the Reservoir Characterization Group we completed the purchase of ThruBit during the quarter.
ThruBit's technology offers a novel way of obtaining wireline logs in horizontal shale wells and is based on the deploying a slim tool through the drill pipe during the final wiper trip before starting the well completion.
Today more than 90% of the horizontal shale wells in North America are not logged due to the total cost of operations and the lack of a wellsite answer product that can guide operators in selecting the optimal completion intervals.
Building on the ThruBit technology we believe we can offer a cost-effective solution as an integral part of our shale reservoir characterization workflow to help open up this market.
In the Drilling Group the integration work continued to progress very well.
Synergies with Smith in 2011 surpassed even our revised targets and the transaction was again accretive on an earnings-per-share basis in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Within our operations we continue our efforts to drive drilling performance to the next level.
One area of focus is the streamlining of our drilling engineering workflows supported by the creation of integrated drilling engineering centers in our field locations.
In these centers we co-locate the members from our technical drilling community allowing them to jointly drive the planning design and support of our drilling operations using real-time wellsite links.
So far we have established 10 of these centers worldwide and we have plans to double this number in the coming year.
In the Reservoir Production Group HiWAY activity continued to expand with operations conducted for more than 35 clients during the quarter.
The number of HiWAY fracturing stages grew by more than 50% sequentially.
The expansion was particularly strong in North America but international deployment also continued with operations so far conducted in 9 countries.
In well intervention we continue to build our new technology offering both on land and offshore.
ACTive coiled tubing technology which provides real-time down-hole data during stimulation and intervention operations gained further tractions particularly in the Middle East.
In addition we have started deploying the new LIVE slickline platform which offers real-time telemetry for mechanical and basic production services.
The largest uptake of LIVE has so far been in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico where the combined capability of mechanical and production services in one compact and light unit is being leveraged for plug-back and recompletion operations.
Let's now turn to the outlook where GDP growth for 2012 continued to be revised downwards during the fourth quarter and where positive signs from the U.S.
and Japan were offset by continued concerns over the euro zone.
In spite of the political efforts to resolve the issues we expect the uncertainties surrounding the global financial markets to continue in the coming quarters.
And although the chance of a global double-dip recession remains a possibility we do not believe this to be the most likely scenario.
In line with lower GDP growth oil demand outlook was also revised downwards during the fourth quarter.
However the increasing rate of the emerging markets the weakness in non-OPEC supply and a number of geopolitical concerns have supported oil prices.
And absent a global recession we do not expect prices to weaken significantly.
For natural gas the continued increase in unconventional gas production modest demand growth and mild weather at the beginning of the heating season contributed to very high storage levels and low natural gas prices in North America.
In Asia on the other hand the need for alternative energy sources following the Fukushima incident along with fast-growing demand in the non-OECD countries is maintaining high prices and significantly increasing LNG demand.
Looking at our industry the general feedback from our customers and the findings from the recent spending surveys indicate that E&amp;P investment in 2012 will be up although the predicted levels vary.
The surveys also suggest that exploration spending will continue to increase.
Against this backdrop we are planning for growth in 2012 although we are building significant flexibility into our plans given the uncertainties.
In North America we expect land rig count to remain flat with Q4 2011 provided the ongoing drop in gas activity will be counted by increasing activity in the liquids and liquids-rich basins.
We anticipate a continued recovery in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico with strong demand for high-value technologies.
In the international markets we expect 2012 rig count to be up around 10% versus 2011 driven by strong offshore activity in West Africa the North Sea and Brazil and by land activity in the Middle East North Africa and Western Siberia.
Overall we remain confident that any potential reductions in activity will be short-lived due to limited spare oil capacity and to growing international demand for natural gas.
Furthermore the breadth of our technology offering the strength of our international footprint and contract portfolio and the balance we have established between our Reservoir Characterization Drilling and Production Services in the North America market would allow us to continue to grow.
Growth in worldwide deepwater and exploration activity will also favor Schlumberger.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call over to Malcolm for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paal.
We will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Greg? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate your outlook comments as always Paal but given this dramatic falloff in natural gas prices in the U.S.
and subsequent concerns about E&amp;P cash flows if I could ask you to start in focusing on North American land.
You've been clear about your strategy of re-establishing yourselves here and you've just given your outlook for a flat rig count but does this very quickly deteriorating outlook for gas -- is it influencing recent contracting behavior in U.S.
land? And then I'll just give you my follow-up now which is that is it influencing your behavior whether it's from a contracting link standpoint or a CapEx standpoint? Are there any changes that you're making now? Well if you look at pressure pumping pricing levels as I said we continue to see downwards pressure on pricing in gas in Q4.
The liquid basins we saw pricing basically being flat some contracts being up and some contacts being down.
Now how this is going to evolve I think is still uncertain at this stage right? There is obviously a chance that the continued flux of capacity from the gas basins into the liquid basins is going to have an impact on liquids pricing as well.
We haven't really seen any downwards trend yet.
But clearly over the past quarter the pricing has been flat so that's basically where we stand on that.
In terms of our view on North America land like we said before we remain committed to the markets.
We have a build plan for 2012 which is obviously flexible.
But we will remain committed to the market in terms of adding capacity provided that we can get the utilization that we are looking for right? And so -- in addition to how we see the North America land market for pressure pumping we have also significant demand for horsepower international.
We won a lot of contracts in the international markets requiring fracturing capacity.
So in the event that we have the opportunity or basically decide to ship capacity internationally I think that will be welcomed by our international operations.
Research Division</strong> So that's still an "if" condition.
You're -- so far there will be plans for the U.S.
It is still an "if" condition.
We have basically decided on a build plan for total pressure pumping with a certain allocation to North America and we haven't changed that at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify from a contracting behavior with your customers are they -- are contracts getting longer? Are they -- are you seeking to make them longer or contract -- are your operator customers seeking to make them shorter now? How is that timing dynamic work? Well I would say that over the past quarter we have -- over the past couple of quarters we have shifted more towards term contracts.
We now stand at around 80% term contracts for one year plus.
And really the only plays we play in the spot market at this stage is in the liquids plays right so I think there's been a shift in the market towards term contracts and I think we are quite well positioned in that sense.
Your next question comes from the line of John David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So you’d mentioned that North -- your outlook for North American rig count is flat this year.
And you also said in your release that basically revenue is in line with the rig count so -- which seemed to me that the upside here for you guys is really going to be in the Gulf of Mexico.
And I was just wondering if we strip out kind of the strength of kind of the seismic side I'm curious as to where you are in your deepwater operations in the Gulf.
Are you back to the kind of the pre-Macondo levels? Are costs now fully absorbed in that market? And I guess I'm just kind of wondering are your margins now in the Gulf higher than in your U.S.
land business? Yes.
The simple answer to that is yes.
This quarter I think was the first quarter where our Gulf of Mexico margins were accretive to North America.
So obviously there's been a lot of focus in on the multiclient sales for Q4 which was quite strong.
But I think it's also important to point out the strength we have on the deepwater side for well operations right both Wireline and on the Drilling segments.
So we're quite optimistic in terms of the outlook for the Gulf of Mexico firstly in terms of our market share position and in addition to how well we can leverage our high-end technology and operational performance in this type of market right so we see steady growth in deepwater drilling rig count during 2012 roughly about 1 rig a month.
So we would be at pre-Macondo levels for drilling rigs in the deepwater by the latter part of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And as a follow-up I was wondering can you just give us a sense as to kind of what's different now than before? I'm curious.
We're seeing this on the rig equipment side that operators are clearly taking a much more conservative approach there.
How has your business changed? Are you spending more time on the rigs that you're seeing now? Is it increasing testing? Is it more conservative operations? I was just wondering if you could just kind of give us a little insight in the how your operators are going about their business differently now.
Well I think all the operators are obviously even more thorough than that they were in the past right but we haven't seen a dramatic change in how operations are conducted.
I think there was always a lot of focus on this.
But yes there's probably somewhat more testing and maybe double and triple checking of things.
But generally our position in the Gulf of Mexico at this stage given the focus that we had now for what 4 years in our excellence in execution program is even stronger than what it was pre-Macondo.
So we are very well positioned and that's why we are obviously quite optimistic in terms of the outlook for the market and also how this is going to weigh in on our North America performance.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
But according to kind of what your comments are this is probably where you'd see all your growth in North America or that most of your growth would come from the deepwater side? Well we don't know yet that.
I mean that's going be a large function of 2 things: what's going to happen to the rig count in terms of the reductions in gas versus potential increases in liquids; and even more so what's going to happen to pressure pumping pricing.
Your next question comes from line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Paal I wanted to ask you a little bit with regard to the comment in the press release as it relates to competitive bidding on the large tenders for standard technology.
I was just curious as to what do you need to see happen here? What are you expecting to happen over the course of 2012 to change that dynamic number one? And I guess secondly we’ve talked in the past certainly on Schlumberger's calls about the leverage to the exploration cycle.
And clearly people are encouraged where they continue to see deepwater adds here in the market globally.
I was wondering if you could spend a little bit of time talking about the pricing outlook on the deepwater market globally here as well.
Okay.
So like you say I mean we still see competitive pricing for basic technology on large contracts while we see some positive signs on the smaller contracts.
On the large contracts our unique high-end technology is obviously priced higher and we always have significant seller potential as the contracts unfold over the years.
If you look at the international service pricing typically there is a lag between the moves and the rig rates which we have been seeing over the last couple of quarters and our service pricing right so there is a potential upside on that.
But I think one reason why pricing hasn't moved so much in the international market is the market share plays that have been going on.
And I think these are potentially coming to an end.
Partly that's going to come down to the activity increase that we potentially will see.
But I think also another key factor to this is that there is a growing customer emphasis on operational performance.
I think they are fully realizing that very low service pricing typically gives very low service quality.
And I think one example of this is the rate that we continue to replace competition within our Drilling &amp; Measurements segments.
In Q4 alone the ratio of we replacing competition and they -- and them replacing also us was 31:5 and this is basically coming down to quality and technology.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Is it still prudent to think of a pricing inflection internationally as being more of a positive for your kind of 2013 margin outlook? Or is this something that we potentially start to see having an impact in the second half of this year? Well I think it's still too early to say.
Like I said we continue to test pricing on smaller bids.
For the big bids and there's not really that many big bids coming up in the coming year we'd obviously be a little bit more conservative to make sure that we protect and potentially gain market share.
But I think it's too early to call it.
The only thing I would say is that there was a growing focus on operational performance and that plays very well into our strength in terms of our quality and our technology.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> And Paal I just wonder whether you could help us a little bit of how to think about the first quarter.
It's always sequentially a difficult one to get our heads around.
This product sales in the fourth quarter there is multiclient that doesn't necessarily repeat.
You have seasonality in North Sea Russia.
Could you give us a little bit on how you would think about the first quarter and how it's shaping up? It just strikes me that expectations might be just a little bit on the high side of a natural range.
Yes.
I would agree with you Ole that the current consensus is probably somewhat on the optimistic side or on the high side.
Just to comment on how we see the quarter from this point I think the underlying activity continues to be strong and it's driven by steady growth in the international markets and also strong activity in North America shale liquids.
Like you say we are going to see the normal seasonal slowdown in the North Sea and Russia and I think also the sequential drop in product sales and multiclient sales.
I think also there is some added uncertainty going into Q1 now in terms of the impact of the accelerating drop in North America shale gas activity right so generally I would say that the current consensus is somewhat on the optimistic… Research Division</strong> Okay.
And from then on it clearly becomes more of a standard pattern.
But second thing back to this international pricing again I mean rig rates after deepwater rigs are becoming again very very scarce you highlighted what's going on in Angola pre-salt and the potential demand there.
Rig rates may be pushing back to $600 000 again.
I mean historically those have been levels where oil companies really start paying attention to technology that can improve reliability or technology that can shorten cycle time.
And yes you don't really talk about pricing so could you help us a little bit with how you view the tightness in the rig market and the higher rates impacting either whether it's service quality for pricing or whether it's the standard technology or whether it's new technology? Yes.
Like I said in the previous question I think there is typically a lag between the moves in the rig rate and the moves in our service pricing.
So I think that's the first point.
But to your point in terms of what our customers are looking for I think like I said there's a growing focus on operational performance.
Obviously that is even more where the rig rates are high like in deepwater but we also see that in more conventional offshore operations as well.
So I think that international capacity is obviously one driver that's going to support pricing going forward because we don't see significant overcapacity in the international market.
I think the main reason why there hasn't been more pricing movement is the market share plays that's been going on right so with the growing focus on operational performance I think that is going to help drive pricing going forward.
And again that's what we are seeing on selected contracts even in Q4.
Research Division</strong> And these market share gains are they offshore or are they on big onshore contracts today? Well I think we've seen them basically in -- all over.
So I mean I think they are reducing in intensity as the 2011 was unfolding and potentially coming to an end right given this growing focus from our customers on operational performance.
Your next question comes from the line of James West from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Paal I have a question about seismic.
Obviously good finish to the year for the multiclient business and I think your original expectations for the Marine side of the business which we could see pricing power materialize around the middle of 2012.
Given the Gulf coming back and your strong market share position there given Angola pre-salt opening up in a big way here is there the potential that -- one that the pricing could move -- moves could be moved forward a little bit; and two that the magnitude could actually be higher than perhaps you had originally expected? Well I mean I would answer the question along the lines that we do see the seismic market -- or the Marine seismic market tightening.
So Q4 saw the expected drop in utilization but that utilization kept growing during the quarter.
Q1 is already looking up in utilization and Q2 and Q3 it’s actually looking quite strong.
So the Angola seismic commitments around the Kwanza block awards are going to draw several new vessels into that area.
But Angola alone is not going to be able to create a global undersupply but I think it's going to contribute significantly.
So in addition to Angola we see the North Sea and the Arctic looking quite strong for Q2 and Q3.
And also there's going to be likely stronger activity in the Gulf of Mexico in this coming year right so basically we see the potential to drive pricing up as being a kind of a mid-year to a second half of this year event.
The amplitude I am not going to be able to comment on at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how do you think about capacity additions at this point both your capacity additions and industry capacity additions? Well there were -- I think 2011 capacity additions to the 3D market I think was in the range of 6 vessels.
What seems to be on the slate for this year is 3.
So I don't think these capacity additions are going to have any material impact to the -- to when the pricing inflection point is going to become.
In terms of our capacity we -- the first thing we would do is to convert some of the source vessels we have back to acquisition vessels but we will only do this when we can assure that we get the utilization that we are looking for.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal my initial question here is on the CapEx outlook that you got.
I think it's $4.4 billion or so for 2012.
I wonder if you could give us some general indication on how that might be weighted between international and North America.
And then if you can within that context just give us some indication on how much you may have kind of put aside for your pressure pumping investment.
Obviously you don't -- I don't expect you to give us explicit numbers but if you just give us some relative size it would be really helpful.
Okay.
So for the overall number just to kind of let you know how we are planning the year so we're going to look at the year in 2 halves basically.
So in H1 we are going to continue to invest probably around the levels of the -- the average levels of 2011.
And then we have secured capacity that's going to allow us to increase capacity with about 25% in the second half of the year.
That's going to -- that can take us up to the $4.5 billion level.
Whether we go ahead and spend all of the $4.5 billion is also going to be a function of how we see 2013 because a lot of the additions that we're going to be making in the second half of the year are going to be obviously coming into play and into real capacity in 2013.
In terms of how we are planning to add numbers in international this is obviously going to be fluid all depending on how the 2 markets evolve right but we are -- we have capacity and we are ready to add as much CapEx in North America in 2012 as we did in 2011.
But we're going to be looking at this on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then once again is it kind of 60% international 40% North America? How would you think about the split? Well I'm not going to be able to give you that number.
I'm sorry.
LLC Research Division</strong> No worries all right.
Okay.
And just quick follow-up on -- I think it was Ole's question a little bit earlier.
You kind of referenced the I think Street consensus numbers being too high.
I think you were referencing the first quarter specifically.
Would you've been -- if that is true how would you assess the full year consensus number as well? Well I think commenting on the full year I would refrain from at this stage.
I think we -- again we are looking at the year-end in 2 halves in that sense right so I think it's -- I wouldn't care to comment on the overall number.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Paal with regard to getting back to seismic Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale seems to be highly anticipated again on the part of E&amp;Ps that I have spoken to.
I believe that takes place this summer.
Normally multiclient spending patterns are very back-end weighted as we saw in this fourth quarter.
What do you expect will be the pattern of spending this year given the fact that such a big lease sale is coming this summer? Would we expect to see strong sales in Q1 and Q2? How should that unfold? Well first of all the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale has not been confirmed yet.
It's likely to happen around midyear.
We still believe it's going to happen around midyear.
It hasn't been confirmed yet.
If it goes ahead and if it is announced we expect there to be multiclient sales prior to that lease sale right so exactly what levels they're going to be it's a bit difficult to predict.
But if there's a mid-year lease sale I think our H1 multiclient sales in North America could be stronger than what they've been in the last couple of years.
We are also in a very good position in terms of the multiclient library we have in the Central Gulf which also plays strongly into this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Secondly and the follow-up here your North American land margins in the first quarter what did they do sequentially? Were they flat up or down? Excuse me? Our North America land margins? Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
Yes our North America land margins were up.
Your next question comes from line of Scott Gruber from Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Paal you highlighted your forecast for about 10% international rig count growth but clearly activity growth is going to be biased to the offshore.
So do you think customer spending could come any closer to 15% growth abroad? It's difficult to say.
I mean if you look at the surveys they range a lot right so -- but I think with the additions of deepwater rigs happening this year which is going to come into full fruition next year and with continued spend in exploration we are optimistic on our outlook for the international markets.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I hate to continue to focus on offshore service pricing but it's clearly a key point of controversy.
Assuming that offshore spending -- that the bias in spending is toward the offshore some of the guidance we're looking at suggests that spending could be up closer to 20% offshore and I know that the industry has a fair amount of clarity on when that's going to hit and so therefore can be prepared for.
But are they -- are the plans of your customers coming in above expectations? I mean if the industry hits something close to 20% spending growth offshore is the industry going be able to keep up from a supply standpoint based upon your own CapEx guidance and what you're seeing in the marketplace? Yes.
I think looking at what is going to drive part of the spending in the coming year again is deepwater and exploration.
There's been a lot of exploration successes in the last year which again makes us optimistic in terms of our view of next year.
Looking at where we see most rig count growth I think the -- in percentage terms there's also a bias like you indicate in our view towards the offshore versus the land and the international market.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Are the spending plans of your customers coming in ahead of your expectations particularly offshore? Well like I said there's a range in what the spending plans for the customers are right so I think generally when we say that we expect the 10% rig count in the international market I think that is based on what we have seen from our customers and I think that is -- whether that is ahead or behind what we are expecting I think that is what we're expecting.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal my question has to do with the workflow around international shale activity and in particular referring to the comment in the press release on the Vaca Muerta shale work in Argentina.
Sort of 2 parts to it.
One if we dial back 6 or 9 months ago where would you say that workload is today relative to the expectation then i.e.
are we seeing sort of an acceleration or are we tracking on plan? And then the second part of the question is with respect to the work that you're doing around resource evaluation how that might translate into sort of market share and the contract differences in international shale versus a U.S.
shale like the Eagle Ford? Okay.
So just generally first on the international and conventional market we are -- I'm very comfortable with our position there.
So we won a number of contracts in all the 3 international areas and these contracts typically entail both studies based on this shale reservoir characterization model as well as the wellsite operations for drilling and completing and stimulating these wells.
The -- what we see in the international market is that there's typically no work done on unconventional or shale without first starting up with these studies when it comes to the reservoir.
And obviously we are barely leading in the ability to do that and that puts us in a very strong position in winning these initial study bids and then building on that into the wellsite operations right.
So like I said in the script we won a number of these contracts in all parts of the world and I would say that the increase in activity for us in international and conventionals over this year and going into next year is probably somewhat higher than where I thought it would be going back 2 or 3 quarters right.
So we expect to see strong growth in all the international shale plays for us in 2012.
The work is still going to be around evaluation and pilot projects in general.
But I mean it's still going to represent very good growth for us.
And I think the 2 markets that is going to take off the fastest I would say would be Argentina and China.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
And just to clarify then Paal that when you mentioned -- I think you said significant capacity wins overseas you were specifically addressing Poland China and Argentina? When I say that we would move significant capacity overseas? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well we added significant capacity in 2011 and we are prepared to continue to add it to the international market based on the activity that's coming up right but I would say that the countries that you mentioned Poland Argentina and China are probably some of the key ones.
But I would say that there is a growing focus on unconventional and shale also in the Middle East and we are ready to add significantly more capacity there as well as we continue to expand operations there.
Your next question comes from line of Jim Crandell from Dahlman Rose.
Well we lost Mr.
Crandell.
We'll move on to Robin Shoemaker from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Paal going back to your comments about large tenders with standard technology and the market share intense competition going on there is that confined to the 3 large service companies you normally compete with? Or are there new entrants disrupting that kind of IPM work in terms of the pricing structure? No.
For the high-end technologies I would say the companies that we generally compete with are Halliburton and Baker.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But on the -- what you called the standard technologies is that you what you -- is that also the case? Yes.
I mean on standard technologies and I would say on land contracts and so forth it's Halliburton and Baker and then also to an extent Weatherford.
Those are the main competitors.
We don't see any other kind of new entrants into the market space that we are competing with at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask you -- just if you could comment on this joint venture you signed with Petrofac and what kind of projects specifically that's targeting.
Yes so first of all it's not a joint venture.
It's a corporation agreement.
And the kind of contract that we are looking to work with them on are these production incentive contracts à la the one we signed in Mexico during the last quarter right.
So these production incentive contracts are contracts -- they are service contracts but they are contracts where we are going to be paid and compensated based on the fee per barrel over an agreed baseline for the asset that we are managing.
So the background for the agreement is that both Petrofac and ourselves we have very complementary capabilities and we also see this market in between a traditional service company model and the oil company model to do this incentive contract as a very interesting growth opportunity having complementary capabilities where we are very strong on the subsurface production engineering well construction and product management while Petrofac has all the surface facility design capability and also operational fee management.
These are quite complementary and it's going to help us basically to bid on projects of a scale that we probably wouldn't do independently and we can also develop these at a much faster pace.
So it is not a joint venture.
It is a corporation agreement where we're going to be bidding jointly on these type of contracts around the globe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to clarify on those kind of contracts the fee per barrel would you expect your margins to be comparable to the kind of margins you generally achieve in that region? Well we've been doing these type of contracts for almost 10 years.
And this was actually -- the original intent of IPM was to get into these type of contracts.
So we've been holding a portfolio of contracts for in between 5 and 10 years.
Not many but the ones that we've had and where we have actually developed our skill sets which makes us confident to go for bigger projects now.
For that portfolio the margins on these contracts are highly accretive to our average margins.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Paal I appreciate your color and your thoughts on North America.
Certainly still at least in the liquid plays a tight market or a relatively solid market and margins are still obviously attractive around the 30% 35% level.
In your belief in your thoughts when you think about North America in 2012 2013 if pricing starts to decline more on a widespread basis and we're now in the margins at the 20% to 25% level do you think the market will start to pull back on capacity additions? Or is that still attractive enough margins that we still could see capacity adds at the margin or even more so? Well it's a bit difficult for me to predict what all the other ones are going to do right but I would say that we will continue to invest into this market provided that we can get decent utilizations on the assets and as long as the pricing and the margins are still attractive enough.
What that level is I can't really give you a number on Angie but we also have like I said significant demand for this horsepower internationally so we're going to have to be balancing off -- if something was to happen in North America to the extent of what you're saying we will look at basically balancing off how we add capacity into the global market and based on the returns that we can get.
But at the same time I would just want to stress that we remain committed to the North America market and we are looking to gain share at the back end of the Reservoir workflow that we have established and also HiWAY.
And HiWAY -- in a market that is going towards equilibrium HiWAY is going to give us both pricing and cost leverage into the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's very very helpful.
And then one more just as a follow-up on the margin side.
Obviously we're still seeing some competitive behavior for large projects but strength in some of the areas that you can add technology.
I would assume that it's fair to assume a measured and moderate progression in margins internationally? And is there any regions that could be stronger or weaker than another? Well I would agree with your first statement that some measured improvement in 2012 margins internationally is reasonable to expect.
I wouldn't care to comment on exactly where that would be.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell from Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal can you comment about how you see your business under the Petrofac joint venture growing the types of projects that you're undertaking and maybe the risks associated with that? Well if you look at the projects we're taking on it's generally focused in on managing payout production in mature assets.
We are looking at opportunities in various parts of the world.
Obviously there's upcoming bids in Mexico.
There is other opportunities in South America but also in the other areas there are opportunities.
And part of the opportunities are linked to a shortage of I would say operator capacity to handle this type of work where they’d rather prioritize focusing in on high-end and new developments right.
So I think this is a growing market and something that we are looking to pursue.
But maybe Simon do want to comment a little bit on how we handle these things from an accounting standpoint? Yes okay sure.
As Paal mentioned earlier we do have several of these projects although at the smaller scale.
And basically this project require a -- some investment upfront which we -- basically we will capitalize.
And then as we go we amortize it against the profile of the production or the enhanced production that we are compensated against.
Normally we have a very very clear plan on the production profile and the baseline and the decline of the baseline.
And we anticipate very well the type of compensation where we amortize the investment against.
So as you all know we do follow a pretty good balance sheet and to some extent I would say on the conservative side when it comes to things like this so this will continue to be the style.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-up question Paal being a couple of your major competitors have either strongly urged or almost required customers to take a number of their product lines if they're going to get their frac equipment how does your strategy in terms of trying to package different Schlumberger product lines along with fracturing sort of compare with theirs? I missed the first part of your question.
Repeat it please.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well the first part I think is that your 2 largest competitors in North America in fracturing seem to be if anything requiring companies to take many of their other product lines if they're going to give them their frac equipment all the way from requiring to maybe strongly suggesting.
I'm wondering how your strategy in North American pressure pumping compares with that in terms of trying to convince companies to take different Schlumberger product lines along with the frac equipment on new builds.
Well generally we are -- when we work with our customers they ultimately decide what they want to buy from us.
When we have product lines that together can bring more value we promote that to our customers.
And if they see the value the same as us then typically they will buy it.
Now in terms of forcing them to do something we never do that.
And I think the forcing is going to go away because -- whenever the horsepower supply and demand reaches equilibrium.
And your final question today comes from the line of Mike Urban from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Paal I wanted to follow up on a couple of the comments you've made on HiWAY.
It sounds like you have made some pretty good progress from kind of a volume standpoint in stages run and also some headway internationally.
And I think you suggested this but just wanted to confirm that you do feel like you're at least beginning to get some of the pricing and I guess cost savings as well from that product.
In other words are you able to get the kind of benefits that you envisioned when you rolled out the technology just given that you are seeing a broader maturation of the pressure pumping market and things stabilizing and as you said in some cases declining.
Yes I think we are still very upbeat in terms of the performance of HiWAY and also the future potential that HiWAY brings right.
As I mentioned we served over 35 customers in Q4 predominantly in the U.S.
And while you introduce a new technology like this it takes -- it basically takes some time from the initial jobs you do for one customer until you can broaden the application for a number of customers right.
So we had 50% growth in stages sequentially between Q3 and Q4 and I think this is a testament now to the customer base that we have established.
And we continue to expand the customer base and I think that's really what's going to help us further grow the service going forward.
In terms of the jobs that we pumped or the stages we pumped in North America in Q4 probably only about 15% of the total stages we pumped were HiWAY while we are really starting to expand in terms of the customer base right.
So I think there is significant potential as we go forward for HiWAY.
And we also continue engineering efforts to extend the operating envelope in terms of lower temperatures and higher temperatures for HiWAY.
Research Division</strong> And then more broadly on the pumping market globally you’ve talked about some of the flexibility that you hopefully have with respect to adapting the market and allocating capacity.
Is that primarily with respect to the new capacity that you're building? And how much flexibility does that give you? And are you doing things like skid mounting? I mean just trying to understand how much capacity could potentially move around relative to a pretty fluid and dynamic market.
No.
I would say a significant amount of our North America existing capacity can also be moved internationally if we want to.
We have standardized the type of equipment that we are operating and that can be moved internationally as well.
I don't foresee that happening.
I think the main thing we're talking about now is how do we allocate additions from this point onwards.
But again we have a standardized fleet which is mobile to any part of the world.
Okay so before we close I have one last thing to add.
This is the last call that Andrew will be attending.
So having spent 37 years with Schlumberger he steps down as Chairman in April of this year.
So I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the entire company for his outstanding contribution and I wish him all the best in the future.
I am sure that as a shareholder he will listen to our future earnings calls but I hope that Malcolm will not let him ask any questions.
So Andrew thank you again.
And I now will hand the call back to Greg.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 a.m.
Central Time today through February 20.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference Replay System at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 222324.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Malcolm Theobald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keeley.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Joining us on the call from Paris today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
First quarter earnings per share excluding charges and credits was $0.98.
This is a decrease of $0.13 sequentially and an increase of $0.27 compared to the same quarter last year.
Oilfield Services first quarter revenue of $9.9 billion decreased 4% sequentially.
This decrease is largely attributable to the effect of the traditional year-end surge in product software and multiclient sales that we experienced in the Q4 as well as the previously announced lower reutilization and downward pricing trend in our North America hydraulic fracturing business.
Oilfield Services pretax income of $1.9 billion decreased 10.4% sequentially while pretax operating margins declined 147 basis points.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by product group were as follows: First quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.6 billion decreased 7% sequentially and margin declined 189 basis points to 26%.
These decreases were due to the seasonally strong WesternGeco market client sales robust year -- end of year SIS software sales that we experienced in the Q4.
Drilling Group first quarter revenue of $3.8 billion was flat sequentially while margins improved 28 basis points to 17.4%.
First quarter Production Group revenue of $3.5 billion decreased 4.4% sequentially while pretax margin fell 338 basis points to 17.6%.
These decreases were primarily attributable to the pricing pressure lower utilization and cost inflation in Well Services North America as well as the effect of the seasonally strong completion and Artificial Lift Q4 product sales.
From a geographic perspective North America margins declined 409 basis points to 22.8% while international margins were essentially flat at 19.1% despite the significant impact of the Q4 product and software sales and the seasonal drop in activity in Russia China and the North Sea during Q1.
The Distribution segment contributed $713 million in revenue and $35 million in pretax operating income.
Last week we announced that we reached an agreement to sell Wilson.
We will therefore report our entire Distribution segment as a discontinued operation in the second quarter.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 23.8% in the first quarter consistent with the previous quarter.
We still expect the effective tax rate for the full year 2012 to be in the mid-20s.
However this can vary on a quarterly basis due to the geographical mix of earnings.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $5.8 billion as compared to $4.85 billion at the end of Q4 representing a $951 million increase resulting from the seasonal deterioration in working capital we typically see during Q1.
Other significant liquidity events during the quarter included $961 million of CapEx and $324 million of stock repurchases.
During the quarter we repurchased 4.38 million shares at an average price of $74.
CapEx is still expected to be approximately $4.5 billion in 2012 as compared to the $4 billion we spent in 2011.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our first quarter results showed good progress as we continued our strong focus on execution and operational excellence.
In terms of activity we saw growth in exploration and deepwater markets in line with our outlook for the year while we experienced the normal seasonal slowdown in multiclient and product sales as well as in activity levels in some areas of the northern hemisphere.
In North America we executed well in all parts of the business during the quarter.
Sequential revenue was down 3.5% and margins were down 409 basis points driven by lower multiclient sales and the dynamics in the hydraulic fracturing market.
We have over the past 2 quarters signaled that hydraulic fracturing pricing is starting to come under pressure.
And during the first quarter the downwards pricing trend seen in the gas basins also reached the liquids-rich basins.
So far the pricing impact varies by basin as excess capacity is moved around but we expect to see lower pricing reaching all basins in the coming quarters.
In addition the continued movement of rigs and frac capacity adds costs and lowers utilization which together with the pricing impact puts pressure on margins.
Elsewhere in North America land our wireline logging coiled tubing and some drilling product lines saw revenue growth while pricing remained flat to slightly up.
In the Gulf of Mexico deepwater activity grew in line with our outlook for the year and was further supported by a number of new drilling permits granted during the quarter.
Our deepwater market share and operational performance remains very strong and are reflected in our operating margins which are now back to pre-moratorium levels.
In the international markets revenue was down 4% sequentially due to lower product sales and the seasonal slowdown in Russia China and the North Sea.
At the same time sequential margins were essentially flat driven by very strong execution in all areas.
During the quarter international activity progressed in line with our outlook for the year driven by the deepwater and exploration markets in particular in East and West Africa and also by strong land activity in the Middle East and North Africa.
In terms of pricing bidding remained competitive on large tenders for standard technology.
However we see pricing sentiments are starting to move upwards as most of the large international contracts have now been rebid and our service capacity is getting tighter.
Before discussing the quarter's results by area I have a few comments on Marine seismic where vessel utilization was strong during the first quarter.
At this stage we are already fully booked for Q2 while Q3 capacity is filling up quickly driven by higher activity in West Africa the North Sea the Arctic regions and Brazil.
While some of the upcoming work was bid last year current bid pricing is up around 10% and we expect pricing to continue to go up as the year progresses.
The WesternGeco backlog increased by 16% during the quarter.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue was down by 4% sequentially while margins were down 40 basis points.
During the quarter we saw strong activity growth in both Saudi Arabia and Oman and this trend is set to continue for both countries in the coming quarters.
In Iraq the steep growth trends took a pause in the first quarter as a number of our customers postponed awards and startups of new contracts due to uncertainties around the security situation and infrastructure capacity.
Towards the end of the quarter sentiments were again turning positive.
And following award of the outstanding bids in the second quarter we expect to see strong growth in the second half of the year.
In Latin America revenue was down 4% sequentially while margins were up by 182 basis points.
In Mexico offshore activity continued to grow during the quarter and we also saw a moderate increase in IPM activity on land.
We are currently mobilizing for the Carrizo production incentive contract with operation scheduled to start around midyear.
In Brazil the deepwater rig count remained flat during the quarter while we saw solid activity in our IPM projects.
There continues to be active bidding for Petrobras with award of the main outstanding contracts likely taking place over the next quarters.
In Ecuador we signed a production incentive contract for the Shushufindi field during the quarter with planned start-up around midyear.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue decreased by 3% sequentially while margins were down by 109 basis points.
During the quarter we saw strong growth in activity in Nigeria Angola and East Africa driven by both deepwater exploration and the major development projects.
And the activity outlook for seismic and rig-related services in this region remains very positive.
In Russia and the North Sea we experienced a normal seasonal slowdown due to winter weather but both markets are on track for solid activity growth for the year.
In Libya activity continued to grow during the quarter and we're also back to profitability in March.
Activity will continue to ramp up during the year as additional rigs become available and is set to reach pre-conflict levels in early 2013.
Let me now turn to some of the technology highlights.
The Reservoir Characterization group saw continuing strength in exploration and deepwater activity during the quarter as witnessed by the number of high-technology logging and Testing Services deployed in projects around the world.
In addition we previewed our new generation seismic streamer during the quarter which uses a novel 4-component sensor to measure the reflected wave in much more detail including its direction.
This is a major step forward for marine seismic similar to the medical industry moving from a 2D x-ray to a full 3D CAT scan and it will further widen our technology lead in Marine seismic.
In land seismic we continue to deploy our new unique technology which offers a step change in land seismic imaging quality.
In addition to operating UniQ on our own land seismic crews WesternGeco recently created a new division to sell and lease the UniQ technology to other service companies as well as to energy companies who maintain their own crews.
The decision to sell and lease the UniQ technology will open up an additional $1.3 billion market for our WesternGeco product line.
In the Drilling Group new technologies introduced during the quarter included the MicroScope high resolution resistivity and imaging service which will further support our customers in estimating reserves placing horizontal wells and optimizing completion design.
In addition the Pathfinder iPZIG at-bit inclination and imaging service helps optimize well placement in target zones and is developed for unconventional oil and gas markets.
The iPZIG service has already been successfully field tested in coalbed methane heavy oil and shale plays in North America and Australia.
In the Production Group HiWAY activity continued to grow rapidly with operations conducted for more than 45 clients during the quarter and with a number of fracturing stages growing by more than 25% sequentially.
In addition to deploying HiWAY through our traditional business model we also introduced the Spark [ph] business model in the past quarter to expand the market uptake of HiWAY.
Here we provide HiWAY job engineering and monitoring proponent chemicals as well as blending services while the hydraulic horsepower which often makes up 2/3 of the well-side CapEx is provided by a third party.
To date we have pumped around 70 HiWAY stages in North America with the Spark [ph] model and we will start conducting jobs in key international markets in the coming quarters.
Also during the quarter Framo Engineering was awarded the Gullfaks subsea wet gas compression project for Statoil.
This represents the first subsea project of this nature in the world and builds on the unique technology position of Framo Engineering.
Let's now turn to the outlook where the main risk of a global double-dip recession appears to be behind us although there are still uncertainties linked to the global financial markets and potential geopolitical events.
In terms of oil demand the 2012 outlook has also stabilized after a series of downward revisions in recent quarters.
Based on the weakness of non-OPEC supply OPEC spare capacity being at the 3-year low and supply risks from a number of sources we do not expect oil prices to weaken significantly in the coming quarters.
In the U.S.
the production growth from unconventional gas coupled with very mild winter weather has driven storage to record levels.
This has sent natural gas prices to a 10-year low and has led to a subsequent drop in gas activity which is unlikely to recover in the near term.
In the international markets natural gas and LNG prices remain solid and based on the demand outlook are unlikely to weaken significantly in the near term.
In terms of our activity outlook for the year we maintain our positive view on the international markets with rig count growth north of 10% driven by the exploration and deepwater markets as well as key land markets.
With our strong focus in execution a very solid contract base and a rich new technology portfolio we are well prepared to capitalize on these trends.
In North America the transition from gas to liquids-based activity will continue in the coming quarter and the outlook for dry gas drilling activity remains uncertain.
We still expect U.S.
land rig activity to be in line with Q4 2011 levels provided the ongoing drop in gas rig activity continues to be offset by increasing activity in the liquids-rich basins.
The other main uncertainty in North America is the evolution of pressure pumping pricing which based on the ongoing transition is set to continue down in the coming quarter.
Still our well-balanced service portfolio on land and our strong leverage towards the Gulf of Mexico puts us in a good position to outperform in the North America market going forward.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call over to Malcolm for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paal.
We’ll now open the call for questions.
Keeley? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of James West at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Paal I thought the change in your prepared commentary about international pricing was interesting especially since you highlighted sentiments.
Is this sentiment changes from your competitors who are now out of capacity and need to raise pricing? Or is it your customers who are pushing back less on price increases as technology and expertise becomes more important with rig rates moving up as quickly as they are? Or is it a combination of both? I think it's a combination of both James.
So if you want my perspective bidding is always very competitive whether we are at the peak or the trough of the cycle.
Now the key to pricing trends is the sentiment which is again driven by the view of activity outlook.
And if you look at the activity outlook going back a couple of years it's been under a constant cloud of uncertainty whether it's natural disasters geopolitics or the global economy right? So even though there has not been too much overcapacity or a lot of overcapacity there's still been a constant negative pricing sentiment.
Now I think the industry is starting to realize and we are certainly starting to realize that in spite of the ongoing macro uncertainties the tight supply and demand fundamentals gives a very solid basis for activity growth as we have seen consistently in 2010 2011 and also now in 2012.
So when you couple this fact with stabilizing GDP growth and also oil demand outlook as well as tight service capacity in the industry it really creates that positive pricing sentiments that I'm referring to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's extremely helpful.
And one of the offshore drillers mentioned yesterday there's been a big change in the last kind of 6 to 12 months around their customers' views of capacity.
I assume that you're seeing that similar trend that your customers are now becoming -- I guess that sentiment would argue that the customers are becoming a little bit more concerned about the oil service industry's ability to provide the services they need for their programs.
Yes.
I think that's fair.
I think there are more concerns over capacity now.
And like I said there was never that much overcapacity.
And I think whatever overcapacity was there I think it’s dwindling quite fast.
We are actually quite tight in several of our product lines already.
And I think it's also worthwhile to note is that over the past 2 years most of the major international contracts have now been rebid.
So there is now an opportunity to start raising prices on the smaller upcoming contracts which we are in the process of doing right? And then if you look at what's happening in rigs and seismic typically there the contract size is smaller.
And that's why you can see them move quicker in terms of testing prices.
With big multisegment multiyear and multi-rig contracts like some of the big ones we are -- we have been bidding on over the past 2 years you really don't want to be shut out.
And I think that's where pricing on the large contracts has been very competitive and with that kind of slightly negative pricing sentiment.
But I think most of those contracts are now either bid or even awarded and there is now an opportunity to start raising prices on the smaller upcoming contracts without any significant risk.
And our next question will come from the line of David Anderson of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I thought it was very interesting in your release that you noted a number of reservoir enhancement projects highlighting ESPs and Framo a number of projects and then again on the production management contract in Ecuador.
Now investors typically associate Schlumberger with exploration but you seem to really be gaining ground on the other end of the production curve.
I was just wondering if you could help us understand how big a part of this business -- of this is your business now.
And is this something we could potentially double over the next couple of years considering all the mature production coming out of the IOCs? You're referring to these production incentive contracts specifically? Research Division</strong> Yes.
But also to talk -- a lot of talk about Framo in there.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> That's obviously a different kind of part of your business that we don't -- that seems to be getting highlighted more these days.
No.
That's a fair question.
So if I just take one step back.
We have for a long long time been very very strong when it comes to Reservoir Characterization.
And with these transactions we've done over the past couple of years we’ve also built a very similar position of strength in drilling.
And our focus now from a portfolio standpoint in terms of further building portfolio is very much focused on the production side.
So you are quite perceptive in picking that up.
When it comes to the production incentive contracts we see this as quite a strong growth vehicle for us going forward.
This is why we created a separate product line focusing entirely on this.
This part of our business was previously managed then under IPM and basically was a subset of IPM.
So today it is not a significant part of our business but it's probably one of the fastest-growing parts of our business.
It is a new business model where some of the award -- some of the contracts are awarded but quite a few of them are actually just negotiated straight without bidding in many cases.
So it is one of the areas where we as a company can get the highest multiple on our services due to our strength in characterization due to our strength in drilling and also due to our strength which is now becoming even stronger in production right.
So if that business can double over the next 3 4 years it can.
It is still a relatively small part but I would say it's one of the fastest-growing parts of our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
As a follow-up I guess it's not quite related.
But I just want to ask you about Argentina.
Obviously everybody's got a lot of questions down there in Argentina.
You guys have staked out a big position down there.
I think you've talked about doing 80% of frac stages.
Can you just help us kind of walk through kind of some of the political risk and how you guys are navigating that? Does this -- what's happened in recent days how does this change kind of your philosophy in terms of that market? Does it change your views on putting capital on the market? How are you thinking about this kind of new risk paradigm I guess? It's a fair question.
So we have moved a fair bit of capacity into Argentina over the past 12 months which actually I'm quite happy that we've done because if you try to move capacity into the country now you might be spending 12 months in customs or whatever.
And so I think the key now is that we have a very strong position there.
We haven't really changed our view on the potential or the resource base.
That's absolutely there.
Now with the government repealing the Oil Plus program [Oil and Refining Plus program] and also making import and export somewhat more challenging there is some more short-term uncertainty.
But we are still quite positive on the medium to long term of Argentina.
And I think whatever way they are going to develop these resources and they will there's going to be a strong need for our expertise and for our products and services there.
So I think at this stage we continue to operate as we have been doing but we have observed some of these political changes right.
But as of today it hasn't really impacted our business.
Research Division</strong> In other words the work is still there.
It's just you're going to be working for a different operator essentially.
Potentially yes.
We'll go next to the line of Kurt Hallead at RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal my question is going to be focused -- I'll get it off the table here on North America and your outlook for the remainder of the year.
And if you can maybe parse that between -- I know you mentioned pricing pressures in the frac market.
Can you give us some color on what's going on in some of the other product and service lines? And can you also just help us understand maybe the margin progression in North America as it relates to if you will the frac and service components? Contrast that to Gulf of Mexico and contrast that to seismic.
That would be very helpful.
Okay.
I'll have a go at that.
So I think -- if we start off with North America land the way I see it we are facing 2 main uncertainties going forward right.
So the first one is the outlook for gas rig activity.
Now with the record storage levels and natural gas pricing below $2 the drop in gas rig activities have to continue down from the current levels in the low 600.
How low it's going to go? It is unclear at this stage.
As the activity flow are supported by the lease commitment drilling in Paris [ph] is actually not that significant.
Now on the other hand the other main uncertainty is pressure pumping margins which are under attack from several fronts.
Firstly utilization is likely to remain challenged because the lower well inventory leaves the frac fleets chasing the rigs much much more than what we used to do 6 or 12 months ago.
If you look at the bid pricing it continued to drop in both gas and liquids during the quarter.
On average towards the end of the quarter in gas we were bidding about 20% down sequentially and in liquids about 10% down sequentially on average between the liquids basins.
Now in the first quarter the new pricing started to significantly impact margins in the gas basins and in some of the liquids basins while the rest of the liquids basins I see being impacted of the new pricing in the coming quarters.
Now there's another key thing to realize as well and that is that in the liquids there are more stages per well.
But the horsepower required per stage is actually much lower because we pump at lower pressures and lower rates.
So while you need the fleet in liquids you actually need fewer pumps or less horsepower -- or actually fewer pumps per fleet and less horsepower per fleet in the liquids which again is going to contribute to the oversupply of horsepower.
So if you add to these factors the fact that there is significant horsepower and order for the industry we believe there is considerable uncertainty around the outlook for pressure pumping pricing and the margin.
So the fact that it's coming down in Q2 I think is a given.
And I think there's also significant uncertainty around H2 and it might come down further in H2.
Now if you look at our side we obviously are in the pressure pumping business but we have the least exposure to this business if you compare us to our main competitors.
And some of the other mitigating factors that we have done is that we have HiWAY within pressure pumping and the off-take of HiWAY is going very well.
We had another 25% sequential growth in the number of stages during the quarter.
And we also introduced the Spark [ph] business model which is then focused on the blending or lower pressure part of frac-ing.
And obviously as I said we have significantly higher leverage towards wireline logging and coiled tubing and drilling of land and also towards the Gulf.
So I think overall there are issues around pressure pumping which is going to have an impact on the business but we are quite well-leveraged towards other things which should give us an advantage going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And maybe just as a follow-up to that and sticking just to the North America at this juncture would you expect that when you take seismic in your Gulf of Mexico and what's going on with the frac market when you roll that all together margins coming down in aggregate for North America in the second quarter do you expect the low point for margins potentially to be second third quarter? Or do you think that given the negative momentum in the frac market it’s just going to drag margins down throughout the course of the year? What would be your best guess right now? Well I think like I said what is clear is that Q2 is coming down.
And that's due to the fact that the -- there'll be more impact on the pressure pumping pricing and also we have the Canada breakup.
Now what is going to happen in the second half of the year? I think that pressure pumping margins are going to continue to be under further pressure.
Now to what extent we can offset this from seismic from deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and from the other part of our land offering which actually is holding up well in activity and actually holding up very well in margins obviously we have the ambition of trying to offset as much as possible of this.
And now whether we're going to be able to do that is going to be a function of how severe the pressure pumping pricing and margin decline is going to be.
And at this stage I simply don't know.
We'll go next to the line of Scott Gruber at Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I want to inquire about the impact of contract role internationally.
Paal you mentioned that the majority of the large contracts have been repriced.
But are all of these contracts in force today such that the negative role has passed assuming probably static pricing on future contracts? Well I mean there are still some contracts that are being evaluated and are going to be awarded.
And I think the main of these are centered around Brazil and Petrobras.
But I would say the majority of the large international contracts have been awarded and they are already in effect right.
So most of the pricing concessions that have been given in the large contracts I would say are in our operations today.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you provide some color on the revenue split internationally between these long-term contracts whether it's for bundled or discrete services the full IPM contracts and the shorter-cycle work? What's the broad split between those 3 buckets? It's very difficult to give a number.
But I would say that the large multisegment multi-rig even multiclient type of contract is I mean is centered in the certain parts of the world.
You have -- obviously you have Brazil.
You have part of it in the Far East around the Pan-Malaysian contract and you have some of them around the North Sea right.
So it is -- they are significant contracts for the markets that I was referring to but it is only a part of our international operation right.
So we have -- there's a lot of other contracts.
And if you look at the volume of work we have for instance for other NOCs and for independents and even other IOCs that's still quite significant.
So I can't give you a number.
We put a lot of focus on it in our commentary because they are key kind of battlegrounds for pricing but they’re only a subset of our total contract portfolio internationally.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's fair to say that given that there's few awards coming out this year -- I think there's only 2 big tenders to be signed -- the shorter cycle work the seismic activity they're going to be a much more significant drivers in '12 versus repricing on big tenders? I think that's fair to say yes.
Our next question will come from the line of Bill Sanchez at Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Paal I see that you all are keeping your CapEx guidance flat at $4.5 billion for the full year.
You've outlined here I think a modest bump in terms of your international rig count growth expectation for the year and I know you're keeping a close eye in terms of North America pressure pumping capacity additions.
Where do we stand right now in terms of maybe -- have we already seen the reallocation of capital from the North America markets to the international markets to start funding those opportunities you have there more fully? Or is that something we could still expect going forward? Well first of all Bill there is no change to the rig count outlook for international.
So I believe we said it's north of 10% in Q4 and we're saying north of 10% at this stage.
So really no change to the activity outlook.
International is coming in basically exactly the way we were foreseeing it right.
But when it comes to our CapEx yes we are upholding the $4.5 billion outlook.
So in the Q4 call what I said was that the budget or the plan was $4.5 billion but we would look at the year in 2 halves.
So in the first half we would invest at 2011 levels which is around $1 billion per quarter and then potentially ramp up of another 20% to 25% in H2 based on how things were going and also based on our view in 2013 right.
So if you look at where we stand at the end of Q1 Q1 was at the planned rate of around $1 billion and Q2 is going to be quite similar.
The main change was that we halted the NAM pressure pumping additions and we redirected this pressure pumping capacity or CapEx to the international markets giving them their pressure pumping capacity earlier in the year.
Now for the rest of the year we're going to make a call on H2.
Whether we actually go for this 25% ramp or not we will make that call during the coming quarter.
If I was going to do a preview I would say that the NAM pressure pumping CapEx will likely be lower than planned.
And any CapEx additions in North America for pressure pumping is likely to be more focused on the low-pressure blending part rather than on pumps based on what I was referring to in my North American comments.
While internationally I think you could see a ramp further from the spending level now in H2 but within the envelope that we've already given.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you do go ahead and make the adjustments on the pressure pumping side in North America Paal would that be outright cancellations of capacity? Or would you just shift that in -- those deliveries into 2013? Well we’re already cutting in North America for pressure pumping right.
So we will see how much international wants to pick up from that.
And the balance we will then either work with our suppliers.
We'll see what we will potentially keep in inventory and basically manage that.
But we have a very good dialogue and setup with our suppliers there.
And I'm very convinced that we can manage that in a good way.
Research Division</strong> One follow-up for you.
As we look at certainly very good performance in margins in the first quarter and everything I think you've outlined from a pricing and activity standpoint suggests margins just continue to improve here.
I'm just curious of your thoughts as we continue to see mobilization of people and tools for you into these incremental opportunities in the deepwater contracts.
Is there any expected margin drag you anticipate on your international businesses as a result? No.
I mean there's always additional costs when you mobilize and start up new projects.
But I mean this is an ongoing business expense and we have these type of costs on an ongoing basis right? So we are focused on delivering steady international margin growth throughout 2012 right.
And the starting point of this is really our focus on very strong execution.
And I'm very pleased with what each part of the business has done so far this year in terms of very good cost and resource management.
I'm also very pleased with the program that Smith and M-I is having in particular internationally.
They're doing very well both in terms of growth and in terms of margins.
And then we have a very strong portfolio of new technology that we're introducing as well right.
So I think overall there are always added costs when you start up new projects but this is part of ongoing business expenses and not something that should really impact our results.
The next question will come from the line of Bill Herbert at Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Continuing with the margin question internationally here.
I mean clearly first quarter margins at least for most of us were better than expected.
Flat quarter-on-quarter given the extreme seasonality in Northern Europe and Eurasia was impressive.
Starting from a higher base than you did last year for sure but with regard to the road map for international margins over the course of 2012 you said steady improvement.
Does that sort of convey the same order of magnitude of improvement that we witnessed last year Q1 to Q4? Or do you expect better than that? I don't even remember what the -- what's really...
Research Division</strong> You were up 250 basis points from Q1 to Q4 of last year.
You went from 16 to 19-and-change.
You’re starting at 19.
I'm sure you know that I'm probably not going to give you a number right.
But I would just go back to say that there is opportunity within how we execute with getting at least slight pricing -- I would say slight -- effective pricing traction maybe in the second half of the year for more of the activity mix as well as from the sell-up of new or high-tech technology.
So we have margin expansion potential during this year.
Whether it's going to be 250 basis points or not I'm not going to give you a number on that other than we are working very hard both through how we execute and also how we position ourselves for the new and upcoming contracts to drive margins up.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on seismic for you.
Very positive commentary with regard to the outlook for pricing.
On your bidding you're up 10%.
Do we actually start to get pull-through from that pricing improvement on your P&amp;L second half of this year? Yes.
So what you have is for our upcoming work in Q2 and Q3 some of the work was bid last season which is obviously on last season's pricing right.
But there is a part which is bid now.
And more of that in Q3 than Q2 which is going to be at that higher pricing and then will have the pull-through that you're looking for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question on multiclient.
Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale coming up here this summer.
Did we see the benefit of that in the fourth quarter? Or do we expect to see the benefit of that in the second quarter predominantly? Well so first of all we did not see it in the first quarter.
I think we saw some of it in the fourth quarter.
I think there is still some uncertainty around how much of a boost we're going to have in Q2 because the IOCs and the large players many of them have already purchased data either to pre-commit to the service that we've done over the past 18 months and also from late sales that they did back in Q4.
So in order for it to be significant in Q2 I think we need a lot more interest and activity or participation from the independents which we so far haven't seen yet.
Our next question will come from the line of Michael LaMotte at Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal I'm really kind of intrigued by the Spark [ph] model.
And in particular if I think about the contrast of bundling as a means of trying to create value you’re essentially dislocating the most commoditized and the horsepower.
I'm wondering what -- 2 things one what that means for your margins kind of unlocking the big capital component and two sort of how far you think this model can go.
Could we ultimately see horsepower in your view sort of going the way of even a rig market being completely disassociated? I think it's a bit early to stretch it out that far now right.
I think we -- first of all margin-wise for the Spark [ph] model these margins are accretive to our pressure pumping business and it’s also quite attractive from a return on assets or return on capital standpoint right.
And that makes it quite interesting.
Part of the reason for doing this is that we have seen a trend where some of our customers have started to vertically integrate on the pressure pumping side with quite limited ability to do any kind of sophisticated higher-end blending type and pumping more sophisticated fluid systems right.
So we through HiWAY have really the only significantly differentiated fluid system in the market at this stage.
And that's why we see that as a very good fit with some of these more -- with some of these pressure pumping companies that are owned by our customers.
So that's the starting point.
How far it can go? I don't know.
I think the main view I have or we have is that the pump itself is not a significant part of the pressure pumping operation.
It's going to be much more the fluid or the engineered fluid system that is going to create -- that basically creates the conductivity downhole that drives the value proposition going forward right.
And I think this is why you see as soon as there is enough supply of pumps the pricing goes down very very quickly right.
So I think there is a chance to get a lot more sustainable pricing and performance in the pressure pumping business if your business is more centered around what really generates the value and that -- as far as we see it that is much more the fluid system than the actual pump.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
Totally unrelated follow-up on the international gas side.
Our view is that LNG prices are going to remain very strong for a very long time which has obviously set off a scramble for exploitation of stranded gas as well as redevelopment of more matured gas in places like Indonesia.
I'm curious within the context of the 10% rig count growth if you could give us a bit of a sneak peek into '13 what the bigger constraints are to seeing faster growth on the international gas front? Is it a rig constraint? Or is it at this point just about getting operators sort of focused on projects and queuing them up? Well I think it's a bit early for me to make a firm comment on that.
We haven't looked at it in that much detail.
But I would say that if it's conventional offshore I think that there is no immediate I think shortcoming of rigs at this stage.
I think it's more getting the projects lined up right.
But if you go more towards higher-end rigs that might be constraint.
But it's a bit early for me to comment on it in terms of 2013 I would say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe as a follow-up then do you see more work coming from new basins such as a Mozambique or the sort of redevelopment of more mature provinces like Indonesia? Well I think we see both.
I think the Far East with Indonesia with Malaysia and Thailand is looking to be quite busy this year and going into next year.
And obviously there is significant focus on East Africa from an exploration standpoint.
So I would say that both those regions and those type of developments in mature more mature basins as well as the newer basins are seeing good growth.
Our next question will come from the line of Jim Crandell of Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal first question is in seismic.
Given how pricing is improving and giving the contract outlook do you think it's possible at this point for you to reach last cycle’s peak margins at WesternGeco in 2013? Again I think it's too early to say.
We are starting to see the signs of pricing traction which we have been looking for for the past 12 or 18 months right.
So capacity has tightened.
If I look at the number of 3D vessels coming into the market scheduled for this year which I think for the total market is only around 3 I don't see any issues with further capacity additions in terms of how it will impact pricing.
So I think there are good chances of getting sustained pricing traction at least through this year and then it's going to be a function of I think how much capacity is being added to the market right.
But the fact that margins are coming up is clear but I think it's too early to say yes whether we’re going to see the peak margins of the previous cycle.
And I think multiclient activity is also going to play into that equation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up internationally particularly offshore it seems to me as if one of your big competitors wants to have a higher market share in LWD particularly in deepwater particularly offshore.
And I would argue that your other competitor wants to have a higher market share in wireline.
You're a company that measures market share very closely.
With pricing coming up do you think you’ve at least maintained your market share in both of those 2 businesses over the last year? Yes I do.
And I would say that international market share is really a function of the number of good contracts that you have not the number of bad contracts.
Also international market is a function of how many contracts you retain and not necessarily how many contracts you win.
So our contract portfolio today is very strong.
There is significant upside potentially in terms of new technology and this whole aspect of operational integrity and quality of service is still key market share drivers right.
And I've been quoting numbers about D&amp;M replacement ratios in previous quarters.
I think in Q4 this number was 31:5 that we replaced our competitors on rigs or wells or contracts 31:5.
And that number for Q1 is 30:3.
So we continue to take work that our competitors might have previously won in terms of bidding but they can't perform it whether it's quality or capacity.
And I think the other thing I would say is on -- that there is also an ongoing discussion about competitive pricing on deepwater and the margins we have there.
I think the key -- if you want to look at how we have managed to maintain market share and maintain profitability you need to look at our margin gap towards our closest competitor which has expanded in the past year.
Our next question comes from the line of Douglas Becker at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> In the past we've seen the share repurchase program characterized as aggressive and opportunistic.
During the first quarter it looks like the pace slowed considerably from what we saw last year.
As we go through 2012 should we expect a less aggressive share repurchase program compared to 2011? Simon you want to answer that? Yes.
Okay.
Well thanks for asking the question.
We obviously slowed down the repurchase program in Q1.
Now I want to take advantage of this question to highlight our strategy on how we consume our liquidity.
So after dividend the cash is used for -- our first priority for the cash is really the business needs and this is CapEx the working capital when we have expansion and the small acquisition.
And any excess cash we will spend it on buyback.
Last year we did expand if you want beyond the excess cash because of following the acquisition of Smith and the number of shares we issued in that transaction.
So we decided to be more aggressive in the buyback.
You're going to see it more in our traditional way which is basically avoiding the increase in the number of share due to the stock-based compensation schemes that we have.
So it will be slower yes.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
And then Paal recently you announced an expansion of the core analysis capability in Houston.
And I appreciate it's a pretty small part of the business but can also generate very high returns.
What role do you see core analysis playing in your business as you go forward? Well it's a key part of the Reservoir Characterization workflow right.
And we have over the past 5 6 7 years gotten further into that business.
We have a great company up in Utah called TerraTek which is leading in really high-end core analysis.
And we've combined this with other parts of the company as well as with our fluid analysis and some of the companies we bought there.
And this is a key part of the characterization workflow.
It is not a significant volume in terms of revenue but like you say it is higher-margin and it's also a critical part of putting together that entire workflow and the entire I would say answer product to our customers.
Our next question will come from the line of Mike Urban of Deutsche.
Research Division</strong> Obviously a lot of focus on the international pricing comments that you made.
I wanted to take a little bit of different approach and talk about some of the other potential drivers of margin in the international business.
In particular I would think of things like mix of business as being a potential driver of margin and then also the volume.
Now you've talked about rig count but are you also able to expand out of scope work and things like that as you grow into some of the infrastructure investments and some of the projects that are out there maturing? Just wondering if you can comment on those 2 items.
Yes.
I think all those items that you're listing are key contributors to how we will drive margins right in addition to when we get pricing -- more pricing power.
But the starting point for driving margins is very strong execution with respect to cost and resource management.
We have a lot of focus within the company around leveraging our size and our footprint even in a better way than what we have done in the past.
We have a very strong international setup.
And the way we run and conduct our business from a support standpoint from asset management from maintenance and regional distribution of support activities we have upside in terms of how that's run.
And we are in the process of streamlining and upgrading how that's done.
In other words we will have a benefit to the bottom line right.
In addition to that as I alluded to earlier Smith and M-I is performing very well and continuing to improve margins under our international structure.
We managed to lighten their support cost base.
And also as they continue to grow the flow through we can get on their business even without pricing improvements is actually quite good as well.
And then like you say the activity mix is favorable to us.
Deepwater activity and exploration activity is highly accretive to our margins.
And we also have a very strong portfolio in new technology.
So I'm not going beyond what I said earlier in terms of how fast we can expand international margins but we have potential to expand them and we're working hard on getting that done.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then in terms of some of the pricing improvements that you've talked about.
Not so much on the large projects which again is still kind of competitive.
But the shorter cycle stuff smaller projects how quickly will that flow through just given some of the lead times that we typically see internationally? Is that something that could still materialize in 2012? Or is that a more material move next year? Well I think you will have contracts where we will test pricing and likely win during this year.
And we also -- when I refer to the wells or the projects or the contracts where we are replacing competition we are obviously not replacing our competition on the same price as they bid at right.
So there will be some opportunities for smaller contracts with higher pricing.
How quickly that's going to be material to the overall results it's yet to be seen right.
But the fact that that trend is starting it will be a positive contribution.
And our next question will come from the line of Angie Sedita at UBS.
Research Division</strong> Paal I mean we discussed here with international pricing and a change of sentiment one of your largest peers said that they are "pushing for pricing" on small to midsize projects.
I mean obviously it's not only sentiment.
It's what your competitors are doing.
So are also seeing this in the marketplace? And if so are you seeing this specifically in certain regions and product lines? Well I wouldn't go into what regions we are seeing it.
We are also testing pricing on smaller contracts.
The main segments that we are seeing this in are the ones that are the tightest in capacity.
Obviously seismic we already talked about.
But then I would say wireline and drilling and measurements are the other ones where we are basically seeing this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given that North America is obviously flattening out and weakening and yourself and your peers are moving CapEx from the U.S.
markets the North American markets abroad.
Do you think there is -- or is there any risk that the international markets don't tighten further in 2013 if this CapEx moves abroad? I don't really think so.
I think the main shift of capacity or CapEx would be around pressure pumping.
And to what extent I'm sure the other main or big integrated services companies is going to look at making sure that international operations get the right amount of pressure pumping capacity as well right.
Which over the past couple of years at least we have been in many cases given priority to North America with [indiscernible].
So we are now getting back in and making sure we are properly set up in all the key basins where we need pressure pumping capacity.
And I would say today we are almost there.
So in terms of how the international market is tightening I don't think a shift from North America to international is going to be a significant problem because the activity level in North America is not really going down.
The main issue you have is that there is oversupply of pumps.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Fair enough.
And then finally you also mentioned you are halting your capacity additions and pressure pumping here in 2012.
What does that imply as far as when you'd stop seeing new capacity additions from Schlumberger? Is that Q3? Or is it still coming into Q4? Can you give us a little color there? Yes.
I can't give you the time because we will add back capacity when we can get utilization.
I see really no point of adding capacity or pressure pumping capacity into the market now if I can't get the utilization right.
So it will be a function of when we can get that.
And also what I was saying is that the demand of pumps or horsepower in the liquids is going to be lower than what we had in the gas.
So what we also can do is by investing and blending in low-pressure equipment you can in many cases create more fleets out of the same horsepower in liquids than what you actually had in the gas right.
So our focus on CapEx in North America if we need to add fleets will be to add the low pressure part of a fleet and then basically use the existing horsepower first until we run out of that.
We have time for one more question.
That will come from the line of Robin Shoemaker at Citi.
Research Division</strong> Paal I wanted to ask you -- going back to international side in terms of the specific regional markets that may be holding back some of your margin progress I’d just like to highlight -- or ask you to highlight maybe a couple of those.
I mean I would start actually the first question with regard to Russia and how you see the evolution of that market including potentially using higher-end technologies.
Well I would say -- first of all to your question about the overall margins.
I would say that all parts of the business I think are doing a very good job in terms of how they execute and how they focus on both market share and margins in parallel.
So that's the first point.
But in Russia specifically we see very good growth in the Russian market for this year in particular in Western Siberia.
And just picking up on your point in terms of how higher-end technology can apply more there I think what we're seeing in Russia is a continuous upgrade on the rig capability more towards western standard and more towards higher-capacity rigs.
And as you upgrade the rig base the need for higher-end technologies that can drive efficiency will obviously and go up right.
So we are seeing a continuous I would say high-grading or upgrading of the rigs in Western Siberia.
And with that we will have a wider market for higher-end technologies.
And what we have done over the past decade in Russia is that we have established a very solid footprint from the Russian companies that we have bought.
And we have been continuing to use their locally made technology to have a deployment mechanism for higher-end technology when that becomes a requirement.
So I would say that we are very well set up in terms of our footprint in Western Siberia in particular through the Eurasia partnership and deal that we made last year.
And with the continuous upgrade of the rig capabilities the demand for higher-end technology is going to grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your earlier comments you mentioned an improvement in sentiment in Iraq right just quite recently.
And so is the profitability level in Iraq likely to rise through the year as we get more -- as more rigs go back to work? Well I would say that our overall profitability in Iraq I think for the past 2 3 quarters has not really been an issue and we continue to see that's not an issue.
So we had a pause in the growth rate and that was more down to uncertainty around the security situation as the U.S.
Army left towards the end of last year.
And also some concerns around the rate of new infrastructure in particular offloading capacity in the Gulf for Iraq production.
So those were the sentiments that I was referring to that was turning positive towards the end of the quarter.
And there is a number of contracts to be awarded and also started up which I think a lot of it is going to take place during the second quarter.
And beyond that we see very strong growth going forward and also we see profitability being quite reasonable for us there.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Keeley will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be available for replay after 10 a.m.
Central Time today running through May 20 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 239412.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Malcolm Theobald Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Kathy.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited Second Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Joining us on the call from Paris today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.05.
This is an increase of $0.09 sequentially and $0.19 compared to the same quarter last year.
All prior period amounts have been restated as the Distribution segment has been reclassified to discontinued operations following the sale of Wilson and the sale of our investment in CE Franklin.
Oilfield Services second quarter revenue of $10.4 billion increased 5.3% sequentially.
Pretax income of $2.1 billion increased 8% sequentially while pretax operating margins improved by 50 basis points.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by product group were as follows: Second quarter Reservoir Characterization Group revenue of $2.8 billion increased 7.4% sequentially and margins grew 223 basis points to 28.2%.
These improvements were driven by a seasonal rebound in SIS combined with strong performances in Testing Services and Wireline.
In fact every technology in the group experienced sequential revenue growth and margin expansion.
Drilling group second quarter revenue of $4 billion increased 5.7% while margin improved 107 basis points to 18.4%.
These increases were largely attributable to the Drilling &amp; Measurements and M-I SWACO on robust international activity.
Second quarter Production Group revenue of $3.7 billion increased 5.6% sequentially while pretax margin fell 117 basis points to 16.4%.
The revenue growth was led by Artificial Lift Completions and Schlumberger Production Management.
The margin decline was largely attributable to our North America hydraulic fracturing business as a result of the spring break-up in Canada and continued cost inflation and pricing pressure in U.S.
land.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 24% in the second quarter compared to 23.6% in the previous quarter.
We continue to expect the effective tax rate for a full year of 2012 to be in the mid-20s.
However this can vary on a quarterly basis due to the geographic mix of business.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $6.7 billion as compared to $5.8 billion at the end of Q1.
This reflected an increase in working capital requirements to support the current and anticipated business growth.
Other significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.1 billion of CapEx $681 million of acquisitions $906 million of proceeds from the sale of the Wilson business and $499 million of stock repurchases.
During the quarter we repurchased 7.52 million shares at an average price of $66.30.
CapEx is still expected to be approximately $4.5 billion in 2012 as compared to the $4 billion we spent in 2011.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Second quarter results continue to strengthen driven by a solid growth in activity and by consistent focus on the quality and efficiency of our execution.
In the international markets overall revenue grew by 9% sequentially while margins were up by 161 basis points.
Activity showed strong sequential growth both offshore and in key land markets while service capacity tightened further in particular in the areas of seismic wireline and drilling services.
We continued to test pricing on smaller contracts during the second quarter with good success and for some customers we also secured work at pricing premiums due to the quality and consistency of our performance.
In Latin America revenue grew by 5% sequentially while margins were up by 79 basis points.
We experienced strong growth in Mexico driven by IPM activity on land and by our Wireline and Drilling product lines offshore.
During the quarter the second round of production incentive contracts were awarded where we in partnership with Petrofrac won the contract for the Panuco block covering 4 oilfields in the north of Mexico.
In Ecuador equity -- activity was up significantly as we started operations on the production incentive contract for the Shushufindi field.
The project mobilization has been flawless and the work program is progressing on schedule.
In Brazil activity remained flat during the quarter.
However a number of new rigs are being commissioned and we are ready for activity to ramp up in the second half of the year as the rigs become operational.
There are still a number of large bids outstanding which will likely be awarded in the coming quarters.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue grew by 7% sequentially while margins were essentially flat.
During the quarter we saw further growth in rig and rig-less activity in Saudi Arabia and we also saw a noticeable pickup in activity in the United Arab Emirates.
In Iraq activity growth in the second quarter was limited as predicted while we went through a very active bidding period.
Building on the execution track record we have established in Iraq over the past 18 months we secured most of the key new contracts awarded.
Resources for the new contracts were successfully mobilized during the quarter and we are positioned for good growth in Iraq in the second half of the year.
In Asia China posted strong sequential growth on land driven in part by seasonal pickup in activity.
We are also seeing increased demand for our high-end services as well as for IPM as our Chinese customers embark on more complex land projects for both conventional and unconventional resources.
In Australia we saw strong seasonal pickup in offshore activity in the second quarter.
The offshore growth is set to continue in the second half of the year and be further complemented by additional land activity in Queensland and start-up of a new project in Papua New Guinea.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue grew by 14% sequentially while margins were up 356 basis points driven by strong activity and execution.
The North Sea posted significant sequential growth both on the U.K.
and Norway side with continued good exploration activity and strong growth in development.
In Libya activity continued to ramp up as new rigs became available and we returned to double-digit profitability during the quarter.
Sub-Sahara Africa growth was driven by high exploration activity in Mozambique and Tanzania as well as strong exploration and development work in Nigeria and the Gulf of Guinea.
In Angola activity remained more or less flat this quarter but we expect both exploration and development projects to continue to ramp up during the second half of the year.
In Russia we saw seasonal pickup in activity both in Sakhalin the Caspian and Western Siberia.
And based in the current outlook Russia remains on track to be one of our fastest growing markets this year.
In North America sequential revenue was down 2% and margins were down 208 basis points.
The results were impacted by the Canadian break-up and the U.S.
land hydraulic fracturing market but were partly offset by our other U.S.
land businesses and by our activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
In U.S.
land the overall rig count remained more or less flat while rig moves from the gas basins to the liquids-rich basins continued.
Pricing and activity for our Wireline coiled tubing and Drilling businesses in U.S.
land remained stable.
The impact of the Canadian break-up was in line with expectations and the Canadian rig count was at the end of the quarter at the same level as last year.
In the Gulf of Mexico deepwater activity grew in line with our outlook for the year and our operational performance remained strong and consistent while multiclient sales were flat sequentially.
As we predicted the downward pricing trend in the hydraulic fracturing market continued in the second quarter and also spread to other liquids basins.
During the quarter hydraulic fracturing margins declined further as a function of lower pricing and higher product costs.
Let me now turn to some of the technology highlights for the quarter.
In the Reservoir Characterization Group WesternGeco introduced the IsoMetrix technology a new class of marine services that measures the wavefield in 4 components using a new streamer called Nessie-6.
The output data corresponds to towing conventional streamers less than 10 meters apart turning a 12-streamer vessel into the equivalent of 144.
The result is the industry's first real 3D seismic measurement and the resolution of the data is like moving from a 2D X-ray to a 3D CAT scan.
IsoMetrix will be able to extend the role of time-lapse 3D surveys enable wider tow patterns that record superior data for exploration as well as eliminating the need for dense streamer spreads.
This summer we will also release the latest version of our new reservoir simulation software INTERSECT.
Schlumberger has collaborated with Chevron for over a decade to build test and deploy INTERSECT and Total has recently joined the collaboration as a full partner.
INTERSECT represents significant advances in physics modeling and use of parallel computing to better represent complex subsurface structures.
It also includes a more advanced and comprehensive field management framework.
In the Drilling Group we introduced the NeoScope logging-while-drilling service which eliminates the need for chemical sources by using pulsed neutron generator technology.
The NeoScope service offers a full suite of sourceless formation evaluation measurements as well as well placement and drilling measurements that help optimize the drilling process.
During the quarter we also bought the remaining shares of the Russian company Radius Service after having been a minority shareholder for the past 7 years.
Radius Service is the market leader in engineering manufacturing and service of downhole motors and drilling tools in the Russian land markets employing around 1 000 people and operating in all major oil and gas producing regions of Russia.
In the Production Group we introduced the Mangrove stimulation design software that enables better decision making for well completion and fracturing programs.
The software helps optimize perforation and stage design for horizontal wells using reservoir measurements and also includes fracture network predictive models.
Developed on the Petrel software platform Mangrove users can access the shared earth model to facilitate program designs for all types of reservoirs including unconventional resources.
During the quarter Framo Engineering secured another major contract this time for the Shell Draugen Field in the North Sea.
As the clear leader in subsea boosting and metering Framo now represents one of our fastest growing business units with around 75% annual growth in 2012 and with a backlog at record levels.
Let's then turn to the macro-environment where the continuing Eurozone crisis coupled with the disappointing numbers from China and the U.S.
has led to downward revisions of the outlook for GDP growth and oil demand.
High production output from OPEC also led to a period of crude inventory buildup during the quarter which together with fares [ph] or lower demand brought Brent crude prices briefly below $90 before recovering.
At the same time global spare capacity for oil is at the lowest level for 5 years and there continued to be risks of potential production disruption from geopolitical events.
The situation in the global economy remains unsettled and it seems increasingly clear that the present macro uncertainties will remain for a considerable period of time.
In this environment we believe Brent crude prices in general will be supported around current levels although they could be subject to periods of considerable volatility.
Continued macro uncertainty coupled with price volatility could make customers more cautious in terms of future activity plans.
However in the international markets we have seen no signs of this so far.
We maintain absent a future significant setback to the world economy our stated view that international activity will grow in excess of 10% this year.
In North America land liquids-based activity continues to grow offsetting the drop in natural gas activity and keeping the overall U.S.
land rig count more or less flat so far this year.
However a WTI oil price in the low 80s with continued market uncertainty could impact the rate of growth in liquids activity in the second half of the year although we have not seen any signs of this so far.
In terms of natural gas we expect the U.S.
dry gas rig count to level off around 500 rigs until the current production overcapacity is consumed.
In the midst of the uncertainty we maintain our focus on what we control which is the planning and execution of our work.
To further extend our leadership in execution we are currently undertaking a number of multiyear programs that cover a wide range of internal and external activities.
These together with our international strength and our balanced portfolio in North America should enable strong relative performance going forward.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call over to Malcolm for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paal.
And we'll now open the call for questions.
Kathy? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So my question here really relates to very good sequential improvement in North America despite the significant headwinds in the frac market as well as the seasonal downtick in Canada.
Gulf of Mexico was flat.
Seismic didn't really contribute much.
So really I was surprised by the strength of your other businesses in U.S.
land.
And given your outlook for the second half of the year do you think it's reasonable even in a flat rig-count environment that Schlumberger can continue to show sequential improvement in the back half of the year both in revenues and margins in U.S.
land? And can you give us a little bit more color around what's really driving that improvement? Well just to clarify the Q2 performance we had very good performance in the Gulf of Mexico the rig-related businesses while the multiclient sales were more or less flat with Q1.
So I would say that the Gulf of Mexico had a positive impact on the overall results while multiclient sales were basically flat.
Now we also had steady activity in pricing in the Wireline and Drilling businesses on U.S.
land while the Canada break-up impact came in as expected.
So the main downwards pressure we saw in addition was the continued pricing and cost challenges in hydraulic fracturing.
So whether the nonperformance from our side on U.S.
land is sustainable I think it's too early to say.
I think it's going to be mainly a function around what the rig count is going to be.
I think it's very clear that the hydraulic fracturing margins are going to continue down in Q3.
We are still bidding lower in the liquids basins as of today.
So if you look at it both liquids and gas pricing is now about 20% down from the peak and quite a few of these contracts have not yet been implemented.
So I would say the liquid -- the margins in hydraulic fracturing is coming down.
And to what extent we can offset that will obviously be a function of continued activity in the Gulf of Mexico and we are heading into the hurricane season which also brings some uncertainty.
So we're obviously well positioned to offset the hydraulic fracturing but to what extent we can do it is still a bit uncertain.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you had some significant great performance in Europe Russia and Africa.
It seems like it was pretty evenly distributed.
In the second half of the year you've mentioned that Russia is going to be your fastest growing market.
How would you characterize the North Sea and Africa relative to Russia as you head into the back half of the year? Well I said that Russia -- as we indicated at the beginning of the year we had identified Russia to be one of our fastest growing markets.
What we said was that within ECA sub-Sahara Africa offshore and the North Sea offshore would be significant growth drivers.
We continue to see them as strong growth drivers in the second half of the year.
And at the same time in ECA we had North Africa land and Russia land generally as strong growth drivers as well and we maintain those views.
Now all these growth outlooks and expectations we have to tie in this whole overall macro uncertainty as I mentioned in my prepared notes.
But overall the market progressed in Q2 as we were expecting in the international market and ECA I think did slightly better than what we were expecting.
Our next question comes from James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Well I wanted to ask you a question about one of the comments you made towards the end of your prepared statements.
You were talking about I guess in the press release and your comments about the solid execution for the quarter which was pretty obvious in the numbers.
And you highlighted additional actions to really extend this leadership position.
You already have of course industry-leading margins in North America it looks like now and of course internationally.
And I'd like I guess if you could perhaps elaborate on what these both internal and external actions may be and if possible what kind of additional leadership that could add to your margin profile.
I'll give you a brief outline of what they are.
So generally they are focusing on both operational quality and operational efficiency.
So I think we mentioned earlier that we've had a strong focus on the quality of operations now for a number of years.
Actually we started this Excellence in Execution initiative back in 2008 driving quality.
And if you look at our nonproductive time in our worldwide operations at this stage we are now about 50% down compared to where we were when we started off back in 2008.
And this is driven by the engineering and manufacturing of our products and making these more reliable.
It's also driven around the investment in training and competency management and also a very strong focus on project preparation and process discipline.
What we have augmented this Excellence in Execution drive with recently or more recently is the initiatives around operational efficiency or cost management right? So this revolves around global supply chain and category management.
We have a significant part of our organization occupied with shared services and transactional activities and also things around asset utilization and global distribution.
So all these elements given our size and our footprint and our reach represent a significant part of our cost base.
And by driving efficiency even in small percentages with such a sizable organization has a direct -- quite a meaningful impact to the bottom line right? So -- but I would say that most of these or all these projects are multiyear projects and you will see gradual impact over time.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's very helpful.
And then just one follow-up on the pricing side.
You elaborated on gaining some pricing traction in the market and getting a premium for some of your services.
Did we see the benefits of that in the second quarter? Is that going to be second half and '13? So I guess what I'm asking is is there more margin uplift from pricing coming? Well we saw some impact of I would say international pricing in the quarter right? So I indicated in the Q1 call that we saw pricing sentiment starting to turn more positive.
And I think that trend continued during the second quarter also driven by strong growth in activity which leads to further tightening of capacity.
We continue to test pricing on these smaller contracts with actually quite good success rate during the second quarter.
And also we saw more technology sell-up within the existing contracts which has a quick fall-through to the bottom line within the current quarter right? I would say the other key thing that we observed during this quarter is that the high offshore rig rates and in projects with tight project schedules we see our customers elevating their focus on operational excellence and willingness to actually pay for it right? And this enabled us in some cases to win contracts at very good pricing premiums due to the quality of our performance.
So Q2 was a step in the right direction provided that the macro uncertainty doesn't have a negative impact going forward.
I think it's reasonable to believe that this could continue into the second half of the year.
We'll go next to Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Paal I have to just get a little bit more color on that very last thing you said there win contracts with -- despite considerable pricing premium.
Could you just elaborate a little bit? Is this -- how wide and what technologies? And where do you see this ability? Well in the contracts where we manage to secure a contract at pricing premiums a lot of this has -- revolves around I would say Wireline and the Drilling segments.
So this is -- in terms of the number of them I mean it's not prolific around the world yet.
But at least we see a correlation between higher rig rates and more focus on operational excellence from our customers where the actual pricing they pay for our services versus the negative impact of poor performance from the services they buy they put a lot more focus on that.
Research Division</strong> Whereabouts -- any geographic nature to this? Any area where this is more common? Now you would typically see this in highly complex offshore type of operations around the world...
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] your competitors make some very aggressive claims with respect to market share gains whatever.
Are we seeing certain competitors not being able to perform? Is that it people are out of capacity and not able to execute what they have taken? Or are there other reasons? Well I don't know what the drivers behind their results but I would just say that we continue to replace our competitors on key projects and on key rigs.
So this whole focus around operational integrity and quality is I would say is now become quite a significant market share driver.
So we've been quoting this D&amp;M replacement ratio number over the past couple of quarters.
And that number again this quarter was 39 to 6.
So we replaced our competitors 39 times.
We were replaced 6 times.
So that ratio is maintained.
And I would say that the driver behind that is being able to perform within the contracts that you initially win.
So the key is to win the contract on reasonable pricing to allow you to invest and perform.
That's really the only way to maintain the contracts in the international market.
Research Division</strong> And you're doing that with incremental pricing power? Oh yes we are not going in to replace our competitors at their pricing or at the average pricing.
We need a premium to do that.
Research Division</strong> Just then to my real question which was actually more about North America.
Did you get helped sequentially by multiclient sales or any other kind of factor that artificially -- not artificially but more one-off type kind of goosed up your North America margins? No multiclient sales in North America were flat sequentially.
So we had strong performance in the Gulf of Mexico in terms of the deepwater operations overall.
And that obviously helped but it wasn't -- there wasn't a significant boost.
We were hoping to see a significant boost around the June lease sales.
That did not really materialize.
So multiclient sales were flat sequentially.
So there weren't really anything exceptional in North America this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then finally on IsoMetrix I mean you're creating quite a stir in the industry now with this technology.
Can you talk a little bit about the testing phase implementation of this technology adoption? I presume given this is I think the biggest R&amp;D project in the history of Schlumberger you want a big -- you want to be paid for it.
So what do you think the customer willingness will be to pay up for something that is traditionally viewed as a commodity? Well it's a bit early to say what they're willing to pay for.
You're right in saying that this is one of the biggest engineering projects we have undertaken as a company.
And with those kinds of investments and with the value that this technology is going to bring we obviously want to be paid a fair price for that in relation to what value it brings.
So our plan for this year is that we are going to run one vessel with the IsoMetrix streamers on -- or the Nessie-6 streamers on and then we will do a ramp-up next year.
We haven't really finalized the plan for CapEx investment in this for next year but I'm quite confident that we are going to be able to get a good pricing premium on this technology in the market.
Your next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons Company.
Research Division</strong> Continuing with the seismic theme Paal positive outlook extolled by everybody and yet the WesternGeco backlog was flat quarter-on-quarter.
How do we reconcile those 2? I don't think our backlog was flat.
Research Division</strong> It was flat to up.
It wasn't up markedly I don't think I mean perhaps -- yes.
Okay.
Well I don't really have any specific comment on the backlog other than we maintain quite a positive view on the outlook for the market.
If you look at the Q2 results they were pretty much in line with what we were expecting.
We took the opportunity to reposition some of our vessels and also to do some dry dock maintenance of them.
But beyond that utilization was quite good.
Looking forward to Q3 we are now fully sold out and we're actually also already 60% booked for Q4.
So the main question mark this year has actually been "Are we going to avoid the seasonal lull that we typically get in Q4?" And at this stage I think we have a reasonable chance of avoiding that with being so much booked already.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then were -- was seismic in the second quarter internationally was it additive to margins to overall international margins in Q2? We don't really give details of this right? So I would just say that the -- there was a good progression of seismic performance between Q1 and Q2.
But in terms of specifics on margin and percentages we don't disclose that.
Research Division</strong> But that should continue in the third quarter especially with a strong North Sea season and also beginning to get traction on your P&amp;L with regard to pricing.
I mean is that fair? I think that's fair yes.
We now have a question from Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal I'd like to ask a different question about the seismic business.
Is -- how far out can you see now for tightness in marine seismic supply demand? What is this meaning to pricing currently? And then -- so the last piece of that is what are your plans in terms of adding new marine vessel capacity to the market? Okay.
Well if you look at our visibility in terms of bookings beyond Q4 we don't really have any clear visibility on how the quarters are going to shape up.
But I would say this year looks strong.
If you look at the total market of high-capacity vessels today total market is around 62 out of which WesternGeco has 16.
So we are seeing that there is overall new-build from several of the players of which we have 2 new-build vessels coming online in 2014.
So our view on new-builds is twofold.
We will add capacity if we can get the needed utilization.
But we also have a vessel replacement program which is basically retiring some of our older vessels and replacing them by new higher capacity ones right? So depending on where we are in 2014 when the these new vessels are becoming available we will make a call on actually whether we extend the life of the ones that we have or we actually retire them and maintain capacity flat.
So it's all about ensuring utilization in marine seismic.
And beyond that we obviously want to make sure that we capture some of the upside of activity if that was to materialize.
But at this stage I would say that we have a positive view on this year and provided that there's no dramatic change to the overall market that should spill into 2013 as well most likely.
LLC Research Division</strong> How is pricing on new contracts Paal for -- that you've been able to sign for start-up in Q3 and Q4? Pricing is similar to what I said in the Q1 call.
We are bidding more or less 10% up year-on-year.
You will still find in Q3 that you'll have a mix of contracts bid last year and contracts bid this year right? So you won't have that full 10% impact on the P&amp;L but overall again positive sentiments on seismic.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my follow-up question Paal is you and particularly others have mentioned the price competitiveness of the deepwater LWD and Wireline markets.
And I mean it's ironic to me in a way that the segment offering the highest technology should be among the most price competitive parts of the market.
Can you see this changing over the second half of the year with even more new rigs starting up? Or do you think that this I don't know could be the new norm for the couple years that this segment is just going to be highly price competitive because maybe of the desire of some of your competitors to maintain/increase market share? Well I wouldn't generalize competitive pricing in the overall deepwater market.
If you look at our position in the deepwater market whether it's for Drilling &amp; Measurements or Wireline this is where we have the highest pricing and the highest margins of these type of businesses.
So in some of the large contracts revolving around this there might be quite competitive bidding.
But overall our deepwater business for both of these segments is highly accretive to our margins.
We now have a question from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Paal I just want to circle back again on the -- to see if you could put some context around the small contracts comment internationally and maybe just for us what that means for Schlumberger as we think about these contracts kind of as a percentage of your revenue internationally because I think the market really focuses a lot on the large competitive bid tenders.
But my understanding for you is that really that's a relatively small part of kind of the international global picture if you will in terms of from a revenue contribution.
So I was hoping maybe you could talk a little bit about the smaller contracts and how that affects your revenue stream.
And also just talk about within this pricing comment do the contracts typically on these smaller contracts -- are they shorter term in nature internationally than what is typically believed as being 2 3-year type contract terms in the international market in general so you get quicker terms on these smaller contracts as we think about pricing escalation opportunities in future quarters? Well if we start off with the first part of the question.
The large contracts as you say or the ones that have been quoted in previous quarters they make up I would say less than 20% of our overall contract volumes.
So they are significant in terms of their size and duration and they're often very strategic to secure.
But as an overall part of the volume it is not that big so -- which means that it's the smaller contracts that make up more of a significant part of our international portfolio.
The duration of these contracts vary a fair bit.
It could be one well; it could be one project.
So it's a bit difficult to quantify exactly what the average here is right? But generally they will be multiyear typically unless you're just bidding for one particular exploration well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess maybe this question is for Simon just is a question on Geco.
It's been for several quarters since you all have broken out what the revenue contribution is in absolute terms from Geco.
I think the last time you guys were reporting on a quarterly basis it was running on an annual basis somewhere in that $2-billion to $2.5-billion range.
I mean still given just the tailwinds in that business and the optimism around it are you all able to size for us Simon where that revenue stream kind of stands right now for Schlumberger as a whole? Well you can assume that it is growing slightly.
It is more or less what you mentioned but the growth is reflective of the rest of the business yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you'd say it's probably growing at a higher rate -- a higher top line rate than maybe some of the other businesses.
It is higher than some of the other businesses but overall it's reflective of what we are experiencing with the Oilfield Services.
And we'll go next to Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Paal I wanted to follow up on your -- you've mentioned uncertainty a few times with respect to outlook and yet when I think about the volume of business in the second half and even into early '13 that's offshore you've got pretty long-term commitments in terms of operator commitments to the rigs.
Can you perhaps clarify what you mean by uncertainty? Are you really speaking to black swan event something like we saw in '08 or something more -- a more marginal degradation? Well I think it's all relative right? I would just say that the -- in the event there is a significant event in the global economy whether that is linked to China or Europe or it could be geopolitical that could have an impact on -- even on shorter term activity if cash flow comes into question.
But I agree with you.
In international markets a significant part of the contract base is longer term and generally should be robust.
But we saw significant volatility in the second quarter in terms of the global markets.
And that volatility could bring some more caution into some of the -- some of how the operators how they plan to go forward with activity.
Now we have not seen any signs of change or any difference in plans versus what we had a quarter ago.
But I think there is significant market uncertainties in the global market and I think it's just prudent to point that out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And the Excellence in Execution help me delineate down 3 tracks in terms of what you're doing on internal processes with respect to procurement and supply chain management.
There's also the focus on field efficiencies through the asset-light model and even selling and leasing queue as opposed to using your own crews.
And then the technology route like the highway or if we go back in time something more like Platform Express where I'm going with this is perhaps if you could maybe allocate what you think in terms of contribution by each of those 3 buckets and give us a sense as to whether this is really something that can continue over time or whether it's something that's going to be quite lumpy and dramatic in one period and then stabilize and stair-step.
Well I would say all 3 elements whether this is like you say technology -- I mean technology has always been a key part of how we generate value and how we [indiscernible].
And the 2 other ones which are more the shared services and supply chain part as well as the field operation and utilization the latter 2 has I would say still significant upside given the size of our global operations.
So these multiyear programs I'm referring to I believe they will be meaningful over time.
But they're not going to have any dramatic quarter impact this quarter or next quarter or so forth right? It's going to be part of a continuous improvement process where we put a lot more focus and I would say scientific approaches into some of the other parts of the company rather than just the technology that we develop and that we deploy for our customers.
So there is significant upside in terms of how we run as a company for those internal aspects.
And these are initiatives and programs that we are going to be carrying forward for the next 3 4 5 years and they would have a gradual impact in terms of our results.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it sounds pretty uniform across all 3 if I could sort of rephrase it.
And the kind of trend that we've seen which suggests 150 plus or minus basis points per annum is reasonable to assume going forward.
Well I'm not going to give you any margin other [ph] than [indiscernible].
You knew that didn't you? But I would say that we are continuously focused on driving our margins up whether that is pricing technology or these other efficiency programs.
We have a question from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A question on Latin America.
Paal you guys seem to be in a really great position relative to your competitors down there.
Just hoping you could help me understand a little bit more about the growth opportunities you see evolving over the next 12 to 24 months.
I guess there's 3 areas in particular -- and correct me if I'm wrong but it seems like there's 3 main areas for you guys.
First is production management contracts.
You just announced another one starting up in Ecuador and the Mexico contract.
Second would be Brazil kind of how the pre-salt is evolving and all the contracts letting out.
And the third would be Argentina.
Obviously what's going on with YPF and kind of the uncertainty around there.
Could you just kind of address those 3 areas for us and how you see them evolving please? Yes sure.
So I can take you quickly around the main countries there right? So if you look at Mexico I think Mexico has so far this year been one of the main drivers for Latin America for us.
And going forward we see further rig additions on land and shallow offshore in the second half of the year.
Pemex is evaluating the Eagle Ford south extension as well and there are some both shale gas and shale oil pilots upcoming there and we are engaged there with our shale workflow.
As we mentioned in the prepared remarks we also won the Panuco block together with Petrofrac in the second round of production incentive contracts.
So overall Mexico with both the IPM activity the individual products and services we do with Pemex as well as these production incentive contracts provides a very strong basis for growth and performance going forward.
If we jump to Brazil we see deepwater rig counts growing in the second half of the year.
It's been relatively flat-ish in both Q1 and Q2 as a number of new rigs were arriving and being commissioned.
So there's still I would say strong growth likely to take place in Brazil in the second part of the year.
And a key again in Brazil is going to be linked to the outcome of these significant bids that are still under evaluation from Petrobras.
In Argentina we also maintain I would say a good activity outlook driven by both the shale gas and shale oil as well as on the conventional.
There's some short-term uncertainty as the situation around YPF settles but I would say that medium to longer term our view on Argentina is still positive.
And then the other one that we -- I think you referred to is Ecuador where we are very pleased with how the start-up of the Shushufindi SPM project has progressed.
And the activity in Ecuador both on this project Shushufindi as well in the general market there is going to continue to ramp up in the second half.
Research Division</strong> If I could just go back to Brazil.
Have you seen much of a change in how Petrobras is going about their business with a new CEO Graças Foster in place? I mean is there a sense that pricing might be getting a little bit better? Is there a sense that maybe technology is going to be more of a focus? What are you seeing out of them kind of late -- over the last 6 months or so? Well I wouldn't say that there has been a significant change in how they go about doing their contracting.
I would say that is generally because most of these bids have been in process throughout that period right? So if there's going to be any change I would expect that to maybe be in the next round of things although they haven't really indicated anything.
So I think the way they're going about their business in this bidding round is similar to what they've done in the past.
Research Division</strong> So really no change in pricing.
Pricing still kind of challenged right now.
You're hoping to get in there show them -- show you can do the performance and hopefully the next round you get better pricing.
Is that the strategy? Well we always in any bid that we submit we will bid it at the level that we can make the contract into a productive contract for Schlumberger and our shareholders.
So there's a plan of how we can perform within the contract in terms of execution.
And also we have a very rich technology portfolio in terms of what we will introduce over the next coming years.
And some of these Petrobras contracts could be off to what 6 to 8 years right? So there's a significant new technology component of these contracts as well going forward.
Research Division</strong> And these bids you're expecting to be awarded -- is it third quarter time frame for some of these bids? Well Petrobras hasn't really given us any timeline so we will await when they announce.
We now have a question from Nigel Browne with Macquarie.
I just had one question more product related.
I wanted to know in terms of North America and internationally how impactful was your Artificial Lift and rotary steerable product line? And then following on that what is your estimation about the penetration of rotary steerable drilling systems in North America versus some of the more conventional techniques? Well we don't really provide details of -- by segments.
If you look at Artificial Lift that is part of the Production Group.
So really the only detail I can refer you to is the Production Group results.
And furthermore we don't provide specific details around technologies as well and rotary steerable being one of them.
I would say though on rotary steerable in North America our new PowerDrive Archer technology which we have introduced recently has been I would say tailor-made for the North America land market with the high build rate that it can provide.
So I would say that the penetration of rotary steerable in the North America land market at the back end of that technology should go up from our side.
But beyond that I won't be able to provide you with any more details.
Okay.
But even anecdotally are you seeing any sort of leading indicators or queries around electric submersible pumps in North America at all? On land? Yes on land.
On land generally there are other type of pumps employed in the North America land market if you're referring to unconventional not really ESPs.
Okay so it's still a rodless market predominantly.
Predominantly yes.
We now have a question from Doug Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Paul you reiterated your expectation that international activity would grow in excess of 10%.
If we take a look at the Baker Hughes rig count it's implying a first half increase of around 5% year-over-year.
Just trying to get a sense is this consistent with a very aggressive ramp in the second half of the year? And is that Schlumberger's expectation? Or is there just a measurement difference in what you're looking at versus the Baker Hughes rig count? I think it might be a slight measurement difference.
I think you'll see that the offshore rig rate will be at least the way we see it will be up more than what the land rig rate -- sorry land rig count is right? So you will have more growth in offshore versus land.
And the impact of the offshore is obviously significantly higher to our -- both our revenue and our margins right? So I think you need to break it down to offshore and land.
Research Division</strong> Makes sense.
And since we have pretty good visibility into the offshore rigs I mean is there a potential that this significant ramp in the offshore rigs we finally see the scales tipping in favor of the service companies for pricing power? Or is it because this growth is pretty well anticipated still the slow grind higher? Well as I was referring to earlier there is a tie between higher rig rates and more focus on operational excellence in the way our customers select their providers.
So I would say that higher rig rates tied to utilization will potentially create more potential for us to raise prices and to get some of the value back for the strong performance that we deliver.
Research Division</strong> And then switching to Europe Africa CIS.
I just want to get some sense for the sustainability of revenue and margins there.
A very strong quarter.
I haven't heard anything that would suggest that we should see any type of pullback in the third quarter.
I guess execution is always an issue.
But is there anything that would suggest the second quarter revenue and margins aren't a good base to be thinking about going forward in Europe Africa CIS? No I would just say with the exception of the overall macro caveat that I've referred to a couple of times there is nothing exceptional in the results of ECA this quarter.
So if the activity remains on track the way we have predicted it during the year this should potentially continue in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Are there still synergies associated with the Eurasia I guess I'll call swap? Or have those largely been realized at this point? Well the overall integration of what we received versus what we sold is more or less done so that part of synergies and the transaction is done.
The other part of this is that this has given us access to significantly more land rigs in Western Siberia to the point that we are extremely busy on land in Western Siberia and we are actually struggling at this stage to have enough capacity to serve all the rigs.
So there is still I would say performance upside surrounding the transaction we did with Eurasia as we continue to ramp up to cover all of their rigs.
We have a question from Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask about the investment you made recently in Anton Oilfield Services as a strategy for China.
But more broadly in what countries or markets you think that having stake in a local service company is the route that -- one of the major routes that you'll use to grow in that market? Well if I attack the second part of the question first.
I think in the high-volume markets the key high-volume markets around the world there is often a benefit of owning or having interests in local companies mainly because they know the local conditions and in some cases they have technologies that are more custom made for the local environment right? And we have some of these companies in North America.
We got them with the Smith transaction.
We have over time acquired a number of these types of companies in Russia.
And we have now taken a stake in this company in China.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So let me just switch my other question back to North America.
In terms of -- I think most of your fleets are -- your fracturing fleets are working in the term market as opposed to spot contracts.
But is there a tendency over time for fewer term contracts to be signed more fleets working in the spot market? And is there a level of pricing at which you would idle -- have -- prefer to have your fleets idle as opposed to working in -- at very low spot market rates? Yes so today we operate roughly around 80% in terms of term contracts.
The remaining 20% will generally be fleets that are in between I would say in between work.
So generally at this stage we'll be happy to go more or less to 100% term contracts the way it is set up.
Is there a limit as to what pricing we would take on? I would say that we are not really in the business of taking on loss-making contracts.
So that's where generally we would draw the line at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have any idle fracturing fleets in North America now or purposely or due to market conditions? Well if you look at what we've done in North America we have completed the repositioning of our fleet and we have stopped further CapEx additions.
And what we have done in addition to that we have parked the excess pumps that we have at this stage.
And the reason why we have excess pumps we're not running fewer crews than what we did 3 or 6 months ago.
But with the continued transition of activity from the dry gas basins to the liquids the number of horsepower needed on a liquids job is significantly lower than what you need on a dry gas job.
And that's why you -- while you run the same number of crews you will have actually excess horsepower.
And that's really what's driving the oversupply in the markets.
So we have parked those pumps because we have no need for them.
And our final question will come from Michael Urban with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the international side good rundown of a lot of the markets and it seems like most international markets are strong if not accelerating.
Are there any markets out there that are still weak or underperforming or maybe not where you'd like them to be? In the international market? Research Division</strong> Yes.
No not really nothing that stands out.
I think we have -- we see good performance versus the overall plan that we put in for this year throughout more or less.
So no there's nothing that really stands out.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally on Russia specifically you've highlighted it as a very good market for you and it seems like you're continuing to invest in the market.
Are you -- is that more a function of just the higher volumes and the higher activity levels you're seeing? Or are you beginning to see better technology uptake there? I kind of think of Russia as maybe a little bit more volume driven lower technology perhaps with exception of things like Sakhalin.
I think historically you're right.
And largely in the Western Siberia land market it is relatively low technology or local technology still today.
But there is -- I would say there is a continued drive to upgrade some of these land rigs to higher capacity.
And this provides a lot more opportunity to deploy more high-end technology right so -- which for instance the transaction with Eurasia where we have significantly opened up the rig footprint that we have available to us as the technology needs grows on these rigs that they over time get upgraded that is again a significant opportunity for us to drive [indiscernible] deployment on the I would say the basic footprint of Russian technology that we have acquired over the past decade.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I'd like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Kathy will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
today through midnight August 20.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 246811.
International callers dial (320) 365-3844 using the same access code 246811.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Malcolm Theobald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Julie.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited Third Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Joining us on the call from New York City today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the frequently-asked-questions document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
[Operator Instructions] And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Third quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.08.
This is an increase of $0.03 sequentially and $0.12 compared to the same quarter last year.
As a reminder all prior-period amounts have been restated as the Distribution segment has been reclassified to discontinued operations following the sale of Wilson in the second quarter and the sale of our investments in CE Franklin during the third quarter.
Third quarter revenue of $10.6 billion increased 1.5% sequentially.
This increase was driven by international revenue growth of 3.1%.
The international growth was offset in part by 2.3% decline in North America.
Oilfield Services pretax income of $2.1 billion increased 2% sequentially while pretax operating margins were essentially flat.
Sequential revenue and pretax margins highlights by products groups were as follows.
Third quarter Reservoir Characterization Group revenue of $2.9 billion increased by 4.8 percentage points sequentially and margins improved 58 basis points to 28.8%.
These increases were driven by improved reservoir utilization at WesternGeco following last quarter's transits and dry docks as well as a strong international performance in Testing Services.
Drilling Group third quarter revenue of $4 billion increased 1.2% while margins declined slightly by 34 basis points to 18.1%.
The revenue increase was largely attributable to Drilling &amp; Measurement on robust activity in the Middle East and Asia.
Third quarter Production Group revenue of $3.7 billion decreased 1.7% sequentially while pretax margin fell 148 basis points to 14.9%.
These declines were largely attributable to our North America hydraulic fracturing business as we continue to experience pricing pressure in U.S.
land as a result of excess hydraulic horsepower capacity in the market.
From a geographical perspective North America margins declined by 209 basis points to 18.6% while international margins improved 73 basis points to 21.5%.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 23.6% in the third quarter compared to 24% in the previous quarter.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $6.2 billion as compared to $6.7 billion at the end of Q2.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.1 billion of CapEx $121 million of proceeds from the divestiture of our investments in CE Franklin and $149 million of stock repurchases.
During the quarter we repurchased 2.2 million shares at an average price of $68.19.
In addition during the quarter we took advantage of the low interest rate environment by issuing $1 billion of 1.25% of 5-year notes due in 2017 and $1 billion of 2.40% 10-year note due in 2022.
CapEx is still expected to be approximately $4.5 billion in 2012 as compared to the $4 billion we spent in 2011.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our third quarter results continue to show steady improvement in both revenue and margin performance as seen in the overall pretax operating income which was up 2% sequentially and 11% compared to the same quarter last year.
In the international markets total revenue grew by 3% sequentially in line with the rig count while margins were up by 73 basis points reaching a 3-year high.
Activity was solid driven by both key land and offshore markets.
However regional growth rates continue to vary driven by changes to activity mix and project schedules.
Service capacity remained tight in our Seismic Drilling &amp; Measurements and Wireline product lines and we also saw signs of capacity tightening in our Well Testing business.
Pricing continued a steady upwards trend during the quarter driven by higher new technology sales strong operational performance and further supported by proactive bidding on small- to medium-sized contracts.
In Latin America revenue was flat sequentially while margins were down 113 basis points driven by a shift in activity mix operational delays and heavy mobilization costs linked to new contract startups.
In Mexico activity remained steady during the quarter with continued focus on deepwater exploration conventional offshore development and mature fields on land.
We start operations on our -- in our first Schlumberger production management or SPM project covering the Carrizo Field and we also began to mobilize for the second SPM project covering the Panuco block.
In Brazil activity was also flat during the third quarter with growth on land being offset by less offshore drilling as rigs were redirected towards work-over activities.
Still the growth outlook for Q4 is positive with 3 additional deepwater rigs scheduled to start operations together with higher forecasted stimulation vessel activity.
Ecuador saw strong sequential growth as we completed the mobilization of the Shushufindi SPM project.
The project is now fully operational and activity and results are progressing in line with our plans.
During the quarter we experienced operational delays in Argentina and Colombia due to a range of local factors but we are expecting to see solid sequential growth in these countries in the fourth quarter.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue grew by 7% sequentially while margins were up 126 basis points.
During the quarter Saudi Arabia again posted strong sequential performance driven by work-over development and exploration activity.
These results were further supported by solar activity growth in Oman the United Arab Emirates as well as Kuwait.
In Iraq we completed our resource mobilization following the second quarter contract wins effectively doubling our drilling activity in the country during the quarter.
With this market share gain and our well-established execution track record we have over the past 2 years established our traditional international market position also in Iraq.
In China we continue to see strong sequential growth on land driven by higher drilling and stimulation activity as our Chinese customers embark on more complex conventional and unconventional projects.
Still the GeoMarket with the fastest sequential growth in the third quarter was Australia where offshore activity increased and where our strong contracts position in the Queensland unconventionals is starting to have an impact.
Following a very strong second quarter revenue in Europe/CIS and Africa grew by 2% sequentially while margins were up by a further 138 basis points.
In the North Sea we saw strong activity at WesternGeco which was offset by startup delays on several smaller projects for other product lines as well as extended summer maintenance shutdowns in both Norway and Denmark.
In North Africa delays negatively impacted results in Algeria while issues related to the security situations slowed the activity ramp-up in Libya.
Activity in Sub-Sahara Africa remained strong during the third quarter with significant sequential growth in East Africa.
Russia and Central Asia also saw strong sequential performance driven by activity growth in Western Siberia while offshore activity remains flat for the quarter.
In North America sequential revenue was down 2% and margins were down 209 basis points.
In terms of activity the results were negatively impacted by a slower-than-expected seasonal pickup in Canada a 3% sequential drop in the U.S.
land rig count as well as the activity shutdown in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico linked to Hurricane Isaac.
The negative pricing impact on our hydraulic fracturing business in U.S.
land continued in the third quarter as the new pricing levels further penetrated our contract base.
Furthermore in U.S.
land we also saw the first signs of pricing weakness in our coiled-tubing business towards the back end of the quarter.
In the Gulf of Mexico excluding the Hurricane Isaac impact deepwater activity grew in line with our earlier outlook and the number of deepwater drilling rigs is set to reach pre-Macondo levels by the end of the year.
We continue to show strong operational performance and our Gulf of Mexico business is becoming increasingly accretive to our North American markets.
In WesternGeco we operated one dual coil fleet in the central Gulf while multiclient sales were flat with the previous quarter.
Let me now turn to some of the technology highlights for the quarter.
In the Reservoir Characterization Group we opened the Schlumberger China Petroleum Institute in Beijing.
The institute houses more than 100 of our petro-technical experts which together with domain experts for most Schlumberger product lines offer a full range of reservoir services to the various players in the Chinese oil and gas industry.
To further strengthen our position in the emerging shale market in China we also signed a joint venture with the Chongqing Institute of Geology &amp; Mineral Resources to provide basin studies subservice data integration and optimize well and completion planning for the new players coming into the Chinese shale market.
Elsewhere we continue to expand our presence and capacity for core and fluid analysis with the opening of our latest lab in Houston which joins our network of over 25 labs around the world.
We are also continuing with our strategy of combining our downhole fluid and core-sampling technologies with our lab capabilities to provide a seamless integrated service.
In the Drilling Group we continue to execute our strategy focused on creating the next step-change in drilling performance through total system integration and we are progressing well with this work as can be seen by the improvement in the Drilling Group financial results over the past 2 years.
During the quarter we reached a significant milestone where Smith Bits for the first time in their history captured the #1 market share spot according to the latest Spear's survey.
This achievement is another testament to what the Smith segments can achieve through their unique technology and as part of Schlumberger both with respect to the overall drilling workflow and our global infrastructure.
Another very interesting drilling technology being introduced by Geoservices is the advanced couplings characterization.
Here we performed continuous petrophysical measurements of the couplings as they come off the shakers.
And through novel data processing we can establish the reservoir quality of the rock and also tie it back to the specific well depth.
This will offer a very effective way of optimizing well placement and completion intervals for instance in horizontal shale wells.
In the Production Group we performed close to 2 100 stages with HiWAY way during the quarter which represents record activity and a sequential growth of around 60%.
In addition to the established HiWAY markets in North America such as the Eagle Ford we also saw meaningful penetration into several other basins including the Bakken and in Canada.
HiWAY's production results and completion cost savings have been the main driver for its penetration into these basins.
We also completed a study of public production data covering the Eagle Ford that show that average production from the HiWAY wells was 65% higher than non-HiWAY completed wells.
In the international markets HiWAY saw continued growth with a near doubling in stage count versus the prior quarter.
Let's then turn to the macro environment where both the U.S.
and European Central banks announced interventions to support growth in their respective economies.
China continued to show signs of slowing growth but so far the slowdown appears to be actively managed and for the time being kept under control.
Altogether these developments have left the GDP growth outlook for 2012 and 2013 more or less unchanged from the previous quarter.
At the same time the supply and demand balance of the oil market remains tight with continued production challenges in the non-OPEC countries and with OPEC spare capacities staying close to a 5-year low.
Based on this environment we continue to see Brent crude prices reported around current levels although there could still be periods of volatility.
In the international market we have seen no material change to overall customer activity plans or sentiments during the quarter and we still expect our activity to grow in excess of 10% this year.
In North America the activity sentiments are currently more negative both in Canada and U.S.
land with liquids activity no longer able to offset the drops in dry gas drilling.
This coupled with ongoing pricing pressure in hydraulic fracturing as well as early signs of pricing weakness in coil tubing in U.S.
land indicates no immediate change to the North American headwinds.
As we continue to navigate the overall macro uncertainty manage the North American headwinds and capitalize on the steady international growth we maintain relentless focus on the quality and efficiency of our execution.
This execution capability together with our balanced technology portfolio and unmatched international strength will allow us to deliver double-digit growth in earnings per share in 2012 as well as solid margin progress in what remains quite a changing business environment.
This position and these capabilities also put us in the driver seat for continued outperformance in 2013 which remains the collective ambition of the entire Schlumberger team.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call over to Malcolm for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paal.
We'll now open up the call for questions.
Julie? [Operator Instructions] With that we'll go to line of David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Paal question international performance particularly out of Eastern Hemisphere is very impressive this quarter particularly how it has progressed over the last year or so.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the drivers behind that.
How much of this would you attribute to say execution activity levels pricing? And I guess what I'm really trying to understand is how much of this momentum do you see continue into 2013 in other words is it sustainable now and we continue to build from here.
Okay.
So if I started with the Q3 performance I would just say that I'm overall pleased with the progress.
We are keeping very strong focus on execution as we have been talking about in earlier quarters and we also are doing quite well when it comes to cost and resource management.
We also continue to work on our internal improvement programs which by the way is included in our normal operating cost.
So in terms of margins we saw further progression in Q3 and we had very good incrementals.
And as I said in my prepared remarks our international margins is now at a 3-year high.
Some of the drivers behind this is slow but steady pricing increase driven by new technology sales as well as strong operational performance.
But I would also say that the quality of service is still a market share driver for us right? The D&amp;M Q3 replacement ratio was again 34:3.
So we're maintaining this 10:1 ratio and this is actually starting to become meaningful for D&amp;M now which have shown significant improvement in financial performance during this year.
So if you then take that performance and try to look forward we maintain our positive view on international markets and also our performance there right? We have a very strong international contract portfolio and this portfolio has solid upside when it comes to both technology and the performance.
And the other thing I would like to highlight as well is that we continue to expand the international presence of our smaller product lines.
If you look at operations internationally today we operate in over 80 countries and we have 17 product lines.
But in 50% of these countries we only have 50% of our product lines present.
So I would say that we still have a lot of runway in terms of growth and as per market penetration.
So in terms of margins going forward I would just say that we will continue to leverage the size and the infrastructure and the execution capabilities to drive both the top line and further margin expansion.
So as overall -- I mean our view on the international market remains positive and I'm pleased with the progress in terms of how we're executing.
And I would expect us to continue to improve going forward.
Research Division</strong> More specific questions just Saudi if you don't mind.
How do you see Saudi market develop in the next several years and how much of their growth is going to come from gas? I mean I know we're not going to see the huge massive ramp-up we saw last cycle but we're hearing more and more talk about gas being one of their focuses up there.
So I'm just kind of curious how much of gas do you see that big -- as a contributor there? And can you give us a sense as to how much that gas market in Saudi has grown over the last year? I don't have the breakdown of the rig increases that we've seen over the past year right? But Saudi today is on track to reach 134 rigs by year end which they more or less indicated.
In terms of the outlook beyond year end we don't expect this -- a dramatic increase in rig count I would say in the first half of next year.
But rigless activity remains strong and is also a key growth driver for us in Saudi.
But like you said gas is important.
Saudi Aramco recently announced a gas discovery in the Red Sea which -- there's no firm plans beyond this.
But with the gas discovery I think it's reasonable to assume that there'll be more exploration activity around that.
And there's also a lot of gas-related activity in the Northwest linked to both tight gas and shale.
So you're right to point out that gas is important and I would say that gas in terms of future growth in Saudi is probably going to be one of the key drivers.
The next question comes from Kurt Hallead with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal I was just wondering if you might be able to provide us some perspective on -- you guys put out some very strong performance here relative to your peer group over the last couple of quarters.
Maybe provide some perspective on how you plan on maintaining that performance differential going forward.
And then in addition some of your -- some commentary we've recently heard for some land drillers and from some of your competitors are calling for an uptick in activity in the U.S.
market U.S.
land drilling market going out into 2013.
If you could give us some perspective on the outlook there that'd be helpful appreciate it.
Okay.
So the first part to your question was related to North America as well? LLC Research Division</strong> Just globally really.
It looks like your performance overall for revenue growth margin performance et cetera has been exceeding your peers over the last couple of quarters.
Okay.
So if I -- if you go back to the first question I answered that.
I think a lot of the elements of our international performance I covered there.
So maybe I just focus in a little bit more on North America.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
So if you look at Q3 overall again solid performance for us in Q3.
I'm pleased with the progress.
Since we restructured our business about 2 years ago we now have a very lean and focused North American organization.
We have invested quite strongly in infrastructure over the past couple of years.
So we are now able to leverage that.
And we also -- after the Smith merger we now have a very broad technology and workflow offering in the North America land marketplace which we are also able to leverage.
And finally what I would say on the means we have to succeed we probably have one of the best supply chain organizations in the North American market as well.
They have done a really great job in particular together with our pressure pumping organization this year.
So -- further on performance in North America if you look at how we have been addressing the fracturing market more or less from the beginning of this year we have kept focus on what we call minimum effective margins.
This is basically the product of our bid price times the utilization.
So if these effective margins go below a certain level we are prepared to lay down crews.
So we laid down crews in Q2.
We also laid down crews in Q3 and this is how we are able to protect better I would say the margins in our pressure pumping business.
Now in terms of the other product lines on land we continue to have solid performance both from Drilling and Wireline.
Obviously the Gulf of Mexico remained strong for us and was in Q3 highly accretive again even with the Hurricane Isaac impact and this is with flat seismic sales quarter-on-quarter.
Now if you look at the North America market going forward from our standpoint the -- on the plus side we expect to see continued strong performance in the Gulf of Mexico from us both when it comes to drilling activities as well as seismic.
And we also see Canada having a positive impact for us in Q4 and Q1 although not to the same level it had in the previous year.
Now on the negative side fracturing margins are going to come down further in Q4 and likely also in Q1 as the new pricing levels work its way through our contract volume.
But -- and also -- as I also mentioned we also see some margin pressure in coiled tubing.
Now what's going to happen beyond Q4 or Q1 I would say there's really 3 main questions in my mind.
Firstly will there be a Q1 recovery in liquids rig count after Q4? This is key to maintain the current land pricing overall both for frac-ing as well as for the other product lines.
The second question is will there be a share place in the frac markets and a new pricing floor given the fact that there are significant excess capacity in the market and also when the guar leaf comes is this going to be another source of market share place.
And then the third question in my mind is in terms of how North America overall is going to perform what are really the normalized frac margins.
The way I see it or we see it the frac market in North America today is largely a commodity market with a very low barrier to entry where capacity is really driving the pricing.
And we peaked at around 30% margins and the trough is now in low single digits.
And I would say in my mind that the normalized margins are more in the middle of this.
They're certainly not towards the upside.
So I think these 3 elements obviously are going to be important to sort of guide us in how the North America market is going to continue to evolve.
But I would say I'm very optimistic though in terms of our ability to outperform on a relative basis in North America.
We'll go to the line of James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Paal as we think about 2013 I want to dig in a little more on Dave's earlier question.
Given the large number of startups and staging for contracts it's underway now which I guess first off makes your margins look even more impressive but there's a lot of work that's been awarded to yourself and the industry that's getting underway now.
That should lead to significant growth in '13.
I'm talking more on the international side of course.
Do you see international growth in '13 consistent with '12 or could it be above or below? I think in terms of the activity like our outlook for international it's still a little bit early to kind of pin it down in detail right? We are just entering our planning process and our customers are doing the same thing here.
So I would just say that we maintain a positive view in international markets.
We see growth in 2013 and I think the rate of growth I think is going to be much clearer by year end.
But again we have not seen any major shift in customer sentiments over the past quarter.
So unless there's a dramatic change in their view of the market and their spend at the commodity planning cycle we are optimistic that it's going to be more of the same for next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then on seismic which has been an area of strength this year.
It seems like the fourth quarter is mostly -- or close to sold out at this point on the marine side and that would set up for a good 2013.
Are you continuing to see good pricing gains on the Seismic side? And am I correct that the fourth quarter is mostly sold out that that should lead to a very strong '13? Yes.
I think that's correct.
Q4 is more or less booked as you say largely driven by South Atlantic activity both West Africa and for us Uruguay.
So our view hasn't changed.
We were indicating that we didn't think that Q4 would see the normal seasonal low and that's actually transpiring.
So going forward we continue to test pricing for 2013 work.
We already awarded some work for the next North Sea season and the pricing is even up from what we have bid earlier right? We are now pushing about 15% versus the 10% that we talked about earlier.
So overall we maintain quite positive view on the seismic market.
We'll go to the line of Scott Gruber with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Simon a question for you on initial CapEx thoughts for '13.
Baker's come out and guided for a big 25% reduction.
Halliburton was out earlier guiding for a decline as well.
Are you anticipating a reduction in spending levels next year? Paal just mentioned that we're going to -- we're going through the planning cycle.
And I'm going to turn it over to Paal to tell you what the initial numbers that are coming but we are going through a planning cycle as we speak.
And there is a bit of shift between activity places that might require additional CapEx.
But Paal have a little bit input now at the early stage? Yes.
So firstly 2012 CapEx spend is going to be around $4.5 billion as we said which is in line with the plan that we previously communicated.
The main shift we've seen during this year going back to what we were planning at the beginning of the year is that we have significantly reduced NAM CapEx and this has been offset by higher international CapEx.
So as Simon was saying the 2013 CapEx spend outlook it's still early days.
We are just starting in the planning cycle now.
But I would say as a general view at this stage I would say CapEx would be likely flat to slightly down.
The main drivers or the main focus for us in 2013 is going to be the international market and it's going to be a traditional high-capital service segments like WesternGeco Wireline Drilling &amp; Measurements and Well Testing.
Now while we continue to inject capital into these businesses we also continued to drive efficiency and utilization for all of them to make sure that we can be as lean as possible with how we spend our cash right? The other key thing for us next year in terms of CapEx is that we are -- we're also continuing to invest further in infrastructure in particular in Sub-Sahara Africa and also in the Far East in particular in China.
And the last part as well as I mentioned we're looking to further expand our smaller product lines into the international market and there is some associated CapEx with that.
But overall I would say at this stage CapEx is likely to be flat or slightly down.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And if I stood back and think about the broader environment thinking not just about '13 but into '14 are we entering a period of declining capital intensity now that the big spend on U.S.
pumping is over? I've realized there's still roofline investment going on abroad but sounds like that's going to be flattish maybe down relative to this year.
And it looks like too that the big spend on international shale operation is still a few years off.
So if you look at CapEx relative to sales or cash flow do you anticipate potentially a few years of declining capital intensity? Well I wouldn't stretch it further than 2013 in the comments that I made.
But I think your commentary around investment into pressure pumping capacity I think those are fair.
We have enough pressure pumping capacity at this stage to go around for a while right and I think so does the overall market.
And you're also right in saying that the volume of international unconventional activity is not likely to sky rocket very -- anytime soon.
With that said though the investment into our high-end service line such as WesternGeco Wireline and Drilling &amp; Measurements in particular for deepwater and exploration type of activities there's lot of CapEx that goes with these activities.
And the returns both in the capital and the return on sales is obviously very good to that.
So if the market is there we will happily invest into those businesses and as long as we get the right returns.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But the investment in Seismic is primarily technology not vessel spend right now correct? Well we have 2 vessels under construction which will be delivered in 2014 where a significant part of the CapEx associated with those vessels will be taken in 2013.
Also as we continue to ramp up the coverage of IsoMetrix on our seismic vessels that will also be a significant CapEx spend right? So the Seismic over the next couple of years will be a significant CapEx spend for us provided the market continues to head in the direction we see now.
The next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Back to the international outlook for a second and recognizing the fact that as you mentioned the outlook for '13 should begin to crystallize much better towards year end but it doesn't -- it's not all that obvious to me that the IOCs even with very generous oil prices are generating significantly abundant cash flows surplus cash flows which leads to the same rate of growth that we saw this past year.
I'm curious as to how -- just conceptually how growth rates in '13 could match 2012 if the cash flow generation is going to be less generous.
And then -- I mean is the swing factor the NOCs the greater sense of urgency on the part of Petrobras more catharsis in West Africa greater uplift in Saudi? How do we match those growth rates year-over-year? Sorry.
First of all I'm not saying we would match the growth rates.
I'm just saying that we maintain a positive outlook on the international market and we see growth in 2013 as well right? So it is still -- typically we don't even talk a lot about the coming year and the -- after Q3 we typically leave that to January.
But like I said we are -- we maintain a positive view on next year.
I think it's probably better to look at -- so maybe you can switch from activity and revenue to earnings right? And I would just say that we obviously continue our focus on growing total earnings and that's through both the top line and margins.
And I would say that assuming no major negative change in the global economy and no further setbacks and a second lag down in North America we are at this stage aiming for double-digit EPS growth in '13 right? And that would be a combination of top line growth as well as margin improvement.
So I think it's too early to kind of break it down to look at what the IOCs and the independence and the NOCs are going to spend next year because we really don't have the data.
But we are aiming for double-digit EPS growth in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then secondly with regard to sort of coming back to the near term here.
You mentioned you're not going to witness the same seasonality with regard to the contract business thanks to good bookings in the South Atlantic margin.
Do you have a window into the outlook for year-end multiclient sales at this stage in the Gulf of Mexico? No not really other than that there is a lease round in November in the western Gulf and there is another one what in March in the Central Gulf.
Typically the way the fourth quarter goes when it comes to multiclient sales it's down to the last week of December when we finalized the last major sales right? So it's difficult to say what it's going to end up on.
But I would just say that in North America or in Gulf of Mexico there is a lot of positive sentiments around the outlook for the Gulf of Mexico.
Drilling rigs continue to rise.
We will be at pre-Macondo levels by the end of the year.
The lease rounds that are announced I think is a positive.
So we maintain a positive view on the business there overall.
So I would expect there would be a good multiclient sales in Gulf of Mexico in Q4 but it's going to come down to the last week of December.
Next question is from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Paal I was just curious if you could talk a little bit more about Canada longer term here.
By our math it probably is still north of 10% of your North America revenue stream.
And I think what we found there's been some conjecture on whether or not this lower rig count has been more transitory here as opposed to something structural changing within the Canadian market.
As we look out to next year I know you mentioned earlier that you're aggressive in rightsizing your North American operations.
But as you see Canada going forward here do you feel like you're profitably rightsized for how you see the longer-term activity there in that market? Or do you think the industry as a whole is frankly probably overcommitted to that market at this time? Well I think we were a bit surprised when we looked at the -- when we saw the recovery in the rig count over the past quarter.
We were expecting it to be pretty much in line with last year right? Now this is a combination of high gas storage levels as well as weather and structural conditions right.
So like I said before we're expecting growth again for Q4 and Q1 but the activity levels are going to be well below last year.
With that said I think overall Canada they have a lot of resources both on conventional gas liquids as well as heavy oil.
So there will be a lot of activity I think in Canada going forward.
We have in my mind a good setup there and we will continue to invest into it as the market evolves.
Where we probably have more opportunity going forward is in the heavy oil which I think we are less represented than we are for instance in the shales and on the -- in Eastern Canada.
But overall the -- we maintain a positive view on Canada.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as you see it going forward you're rightsized properly for that -- for the activity levels you forecast and actually be looking maybe to put some incremental services in there? Yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up would be just -- as we think about international just near term is there anything Paal that would alter the view of kind of what we saw in 4Q as we think about the seasonal uptick that you typically get in your business from your own product sales and the like that fourth quarter revenue growth internationally should be pretty strong here as we look to 4Q? Yes.
No we don't see anything largely different than what we would expect in previous years.
So there's typically an uptick in fourth quarter sales both linked to software and say hardware completions sales as well as multiclient.
So there's always some variation and uncertainty what happens with respect to those sales.
But overall we expect that to occur again this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because as I look at fourth quarter '11 you were up high single digits in Eastern Hemisphere third to fourth quarter that's probably not unreasonable to think about for 4Q this year? Well I haven't looked at the numbers.
But I would say that a similar type of uptick as we saw last year is not unreasonable to expect.
We'll go to line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal I wanted to follow up on some comments that you made back at the last Analyst Meeting in Boston with respect to the supply chain and procurement initiatives.
Can you give us a progress update as to how far along you are vis-a-vis those targets and perhaps some indication of the impact that that's had on the P&amp;L thus far? I know it's a big part of the execution program but focusing more on the cost side of the equation as opposed to execution on the field.
Yes.
So I think if you split it into quality and efficiency I would say the quality part we have worked on now since 2008 2009 and it's starting to have a meaningful impact in terms of the overall reliability of our services right? And that's -- you see that in particular in a segment like Drilling &amp; Measurements.
So that is part of why I believe we are superior when it comes to execution strength from a quality standpoint.
Now the other parts that I referred to over the last quarter was more linked to the efficiency side and this has much more to do with the internal things like asset utilization transportation shared services and this type of things.
I would say we are much -- in a much earlier stage of capitalizing all those benefits.
You always get some lower hanging fruit as you start focusing in on things.
But these programs are multiyear and we will see gradually fruits of them coming forth in the coming years.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you remind us of what the targets are for that program.
I -- we have targets but I haven't shared the targets and I don't intend to share them.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question I had was with respect to the shale workflow.
As we're moving from a horsepower-driven market everybody's trying to differentiate themselves and one of the common terms that we've heard just in the last few months has been around the notion of workflow.
Can you address the competitive advantages you -- that you think that Schlumberger has in -- with respect to workflow? Yes.
We've been talking about workflow now for a couple of years.
So I find it interesting to see that the broader industry is now taking up the concept and also want to take part in it right? So the advantages we have is starting off with Reservoir Characterization and our ability to basically establish 3-dimensional models that can predict variation in shale quality similar to what we can do in conventional reservoirs.
Now when you have that capability you can firstly place your wells in the right position aerially.
And secondly when you evaluate the quality of the rock in the horizontal section you can also complete the parts of the horizontal section which is most likely to actual flow.
Today there's a significant part of the horizontal section that are frac-ed that never actually flows anything which means that the frac itself was probably a waste.
And then the last part also has to do with how you frac these wells.
Today we create a very deep fracture network and we only are able to prop a small part of it which means that all the horsepower and the water that you use to create a deeper fracture is also a waste right? So I would say that we have a very clear view on where the waste in the current process is and we have technologies and workflows that can help our customers address these.
We see a further uptake of these technologies and these workflows in North America.
And for the projects that we are involved in internationally which are more exploration or appraisal focused we always use these workflows overseas.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you had to sort of gauge growth internationally versus say penetration of the workflow domestically which would grow faster do you think? I -- it's difficult to say.
I would say in the international market the two markets that I would say would have the most meaningful activity growth in the coming couple of years would be Argentina and China.
And it's interesting to see now that YPF seems to be quite eager to pursue the Vaca Muerta shale in Argentina.
So there's a fair bit of rig activity moving into the Vaca Muerta.
And I think in that sense we are a lot more optimistic on the activity outlook for Argentina at this stage than maybe what we were one quarter ago.
And you also seen some of the moves we have been making in China recently and that's again at the back end of our view that China also will see a good growth in both tight gas and shale gas going forward right? So to what extent that is going to generate growth versus the penetration in North America? I think it's a bit of a toss-up.
But I would say more and more customers in North America are interested in the shale workflow and the associated technologies that we have to go with it.
Next question is from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Paal you recently made some very positive comments regarding the clearly attractive subsea markets and certainly I understand you maybe in the early stages of looking at opportunities.
But 2 questions.
Would potentially a JV or an alliance with the subsea production company make sense around the now wholly owned Framo business? And two given that you do now own Framo outright would you consider bidding directly on subsea separation opportunities in the offshore market? Yes.
When it comes to generally how we -- what we will do in the subsea market going forward that's something that we're still evaluating right? So I wouldn't provide any specific comments on any plans that we may or may not have in terms of how we address the market going forward.
What I wanted to do when I put subsea on the agenda earlier this quarter was just to indicate our view on what the opportunity in subsea is.
And a lot of the opportunity evolves around the fact that the recovery rates are on average half for subsea developments compared to what conventional topside developments are.
And if you look at the capabilities we are -- we have in terms of subsurface understanding modeling and prediction the ESPs the intelligent well completions and Framo as you rightly point out we have a lot of the ingredients that can help drive recovery from these type of developments right? So would we bid directly or independently on processing projects? We would have to look at how big they were and how we potentially could align ourselves with other players that have some of the capabilities and some of the I would say technologies that also needs to go into that project right? But we are undertaking a number of significant projects with Framo already some of them we highlight in the press releases that we send out every quarter.
And I would just say that Framo as it is today is one of our fastest-growing product lines and they are at the cutting edge of technology.
So as it is today we are very pleased with how it’s performing.
Research Division</strong> No fair enough.
Great business.
And then as a follow-up or a separate question thoughts on Mexico and Russia for 2013 both of them appear that they could be a bit stronger with new opportunities specifically in Mexico and what type of opportunities do you see next year in both areas.
Yes.
As we started with Mexico I would say that we have quite a positive activity outlook on Mexico driven by both land and offshore and offshore both shallow water and deepwater.
The deepwater Gulf of Mexico activity for PEMEX continues and we have a significant presence on that.
There is also continued focus on mature fields in Mexico and a potential for more SPM activity.
And there's also now more focus again on the shales in the north region as well from the PEMEX side.
So I would say that the overall view on Mexico is quite positive for us going into 2013.
When it comes to Russia quite similar also positive.
We expect to see again continued growth in Western Siberia where we have a very strong position through our local presence there and then you'll have continued exploration activity for instance in the Baltic and the Bering Sea.
And we also see very solid activity for Sakhalin and the Caspian regions.
So you're right to point out Mexico and Russia as positives going into 2013.
We'll move on to line of Brad Handler with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let's see maybe you can speak a little bit guys to SPM.
You just touched on it with Mexico I know.
But can you give us a sense as to perhaps the run rate in the third quarter how that compares to where it was a year ago or a couple of years ago on the top line? Yes.
We don't disclose those details on other than -- we have -- if you look at the number of projects that we have won and are in the process of taking on at this stage we are I would say significantly up in terms of overall activity and also overall the number of barrels that we actually manage right? So a lot of the contract wins that we've had have been in Latin America.
The Shushufindi project is the -- probably the biggest project that we've ever taken on and the ramp-up has now been completed.
We're operating 5 rigs in this project and we are pretty much on track for the work program and the -- for the production profile that we laid out to achieve.
The other project is in the Carrizo project in Mexico where again we are just in the process of mobilizing now or are more or less finished and we are starting to mobilize for Panuco.
So overall I can't give you the exact number for revenue or for production.
But we split SPM out from IPM about a year ago and we did that to put a lot more focus onto these production incentive contracts because it is a differentiated growth opportunity for us given the capabilities we have here.
And also the margins for this type of business is highly accretive to the overall margins of the company and that's why we are continuing to pursue them.
Now the overall sales process for this type of project is quite long.
There's a lot of due diligence work needed to go in.
And I would say that we are not -- we're not accepting every opportunity.
If we're not satisfied with certain elements of how these contracts are set up we will turn them down.
And we have turned down contracts even recently that we decided were not good enough for us.
So this is all about portfolio management and risk management and we will take our time in terms of how we grow the business.
But there's a lot of opportunities out there and we will continue to pursue them.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You anticipated a couple of follow-on questions anyway but I'll sneak in another one in the same area.
Sure.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The -- maybe you can give us some sense of the degree to which as it sits today with what you won? There is a performance kicker tied to SPM.
Or how integral is that to your selling process? Do all of them have performance bonuses presumably based on production increases and the like? Yes.
All the SPM projects are performance based.
If it's only turnkey drilling or normal contracts we don't classify them under the SPM product line.
So this is where we are typically paid on a fee per barrel.
So we will invest the value of our products and services.
We will agree a decline curve with our customer.
And the production that we will generate through our investments on top of that decline curve we will get a certain fee per barrel for.
And that's overall how we are paid.
And that's why generally this will generate cash for our customers and there are ways -- this is a way for them to unlock maybe aging assets that is not really a priority for them to spend their cash on.
And then that's why this is quite a good business model.
Now in terms of how this will be a growth avenue for us going forward it's still a relatively small part of our business.
But again we continue to focus on it and we will continue to grow it in a -- I would say in a somewhat conservative way.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Is it -- do you think it's relatively less or more capital intensive than the balance of your business? Simon have you looked at it specifically that way? No.
The capital associated with SPM project is not more than our regular business.
What is more than our regular business is sometimes you have investments upfront and this is part of the overall evaluation of the project and how we will -- how much is the cash flow required upfront and the investment.
And the investment is not in CapEx the investment in services that are spent ahead of time in anticipation of the uptick in the production and therefore the additional revenue that we'll generate.
We are very conservative on how we will account for these projects and there is a regular evaluation of the potential of the additional revenue and additional production that will basically compensate for the initial investment.
The next question is from Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal I think in your remarks you talked about new Wireline tool introductions in the quarter.
And your largest competitor also talked about that this morning and theirs was focused very much on the deepwater and then in return and they mentioned the Gulf of Mexico.
Can you talk a little bit about what your new Wireline tools are that you're introducing and what market they're earmarked for? Well the -- if you look at the 2 latest that we have introduced is the Dielectric Scanner and Litho Scanner is all part of the scanner family.
So the Dielectric Scanner is focused in on formation evaluation in carbonates and heavy oils and mixed salinity.
So these are special type of measurements with relatively broad applications as you see right? And the Litho Scanner is again a formation evaluation measurement linked to shale which gives you shale composition and also total organic content right? So what we are trying to do on the formation evaluation side in Wireline at this stage is to focus in on these I would say complex reservoirs or unconventional reservoirs in terms of formation evaluation both in terms of fluid determination as well as the composition of the rock.
So those are the 2 I would say latest and 2 main introductions that we've done recently.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-on if the domestic rig count domestic meaning U.S.
land rig count were to fall by another 10% would you consider Wireline or LWD prices to be at risk of going down under that scenario? Yes.
I think if the overall North America land rig count was to drop by 10% I think I would be concerned about the ability to hold pricing on the other services on land that being Drilling or Wireline right? Like I said we're already seeing some early signs of weakness in coiled tubing.
Whether that is going to continue or it's more of a Q3-Q4 effect which will bounce back next year it's too early to say.
But it's really the first product line that we have seen pressuring so far.
The other ones are holding.
But you're right to point out that if the rig count was to go down overall further then I think there might start to be pressure on the others.
We haven't seen anything yet but that is something that I would probably worry about.
We have time for one final question from the line of Jud Bailey with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about a couple of markets.
Paal you mentioned in your prepared comments some of the work you're doing in China.
And I was wondering if you could give us a little more color just on that market how we should think about it in terms of growth opportunity and what kind of product lines you're utilizing the most? Yes.
So the -- what's happened in the China market recently is that there's a lot of drive I think from the government to develop the unconventionals both the tight gas as well as the shale gas.
They're importing LNG at very high prices and they have a significant unconventional gas resource in the country which they are very keen to develop.
So tight gas remains the main focus of the 3 main Chinese national oil companies.
But shale gas the government has classified not as hydrocarbon but as a mineral.
And when it's classified as a mineral the -- it is basically open for any other company to bid for licenses and actually go ahead and do work.
So there's a lot of interest from other type of companies whether it's utility coal companies or just private equity companies to come in and take licenses in shale and to start developing them.
Now a very few of these have any capabilities when it comes to reservoir evaluation or actual well-side execution when it comes to these things.
They don't have their own service companies which the 3 main Chinese companies have.
So that's the opportunity for us to have significantly more penetration of the shale market in China as it evolves going forward.
And this is again why we have made some of these moves in terms of joint ventures.
So the joint venture with Chongqing is linked at the reservoir evaluation standpoint while the joint venture we signed this quarter with Anton Oil is more focused on IPM activities around well construction and frac-ing of these shale gas wells.
So there's a reservoir aspect to it and there is the full portfolio of drilling and production-related activities that goes with it as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's interesting.
And would you say the better opportunity is it market penetration? Or just the growth of the overall market itself? Well I think it's actually both.
In the past we've had limited penetration because the state oil companies have their own service arms.
We do some of the high-end activities for them.
We help them out with certain things.
But there's a lot more opportunity in the shale now for these other players to do a much more significant part of the work so I think that's where the opportunity lies.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And my last question is just on Brazil.
They've taken -- Petrobras has taken delivery to lot of deepwater rigs the last year or so.
They're going to get more active in some of their presalt development but another initiative of Petrobras is trying to stem some of the production declines at -- in Campos.
And I just wondered -- I was curious if you could share your view on that market and the opportunities for growth and to what extent you may be talking to Petrobras on some of their production issues.
Yes.
I would say that just in general the -- we maintain a positive view on Brazil.
There has been delays in terms of rig startups rig arrivals during this year and also when Petrobras turned some of the -- their deepwater capacity towards production.
That obviously impacts our drilling rate and product lines as well right? But they are putting priority on like you say stemming the decline and getting production back up again so that makes sense.
And we will work with them in whatever capacity we need to to help them out with that.
But overall Brazil is going to show good growth going forward.
There are probably going to be some bumps along the way but we are there.
We have a very strong presence.
We have a very good relationship with Petrobras and we'll work with them the way they want us to.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I'd like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Julie will now provide the closing comments.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference is available for replay after 10 a.m.
today through midnight November 19 2012.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 255344.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
With that that does conclude our conference today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger's Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Malcolm Theobald Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Julie.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Results Conference Call.
Joining us on the call today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I'd like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the Frequently Asked Questions document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
And now I'll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.08.
This is flat sequentially and $0.02 lower when compared to the same quarter last year.
As a reminder all the prior year amounts have been restated as the Distribution segment has been reclassified to discontinued operations following the sales of Wilson and CE Franklin in the second and third quarters of this year.
During the quarter we recorded $0.04 of integration charges and $0.02 of charges relating to workforce reductions in connection with an initiative to rationalize global overhead costs.
The Smith integration charges was a little larger than our historical run rate due to the fact that we incurred a number of agency terminations and facility exit costs during the quarter.
Going forward we do not intend to highlight these integration costs separately as they are not anticipated to be significant.
Fourth quarter revenue of $11.2 billion increased 5.3% sequentially.
Of this $567 million sequential increase approximately half of this growth came from the year-end surge in product software and WesternGeco multiclient sales that we typically experience in Q4.
Oilfield Services' pretax income of $2.2 billion increased 1% sequentially.
Pretax operating margins were down 83 basis points as the positive effects of year-end product sales were not enough to overcome the impact of the higher-than-usual seasonal slowdowns in activity and contractual delays experienced during the quarter.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by product group were as follows.
Fourth quarter Reservoir Characterization Group revenue of $3.2 billion increased 8.2% sequentially and margins improved 31 basis points to 29.1%.
These increases were largely driven by the traditionally strong end-of-year software and market client sales offset in part by the impact of lower WesternGeco marine vessel utilization.
It is also worth mentioning that Testing Services Wireline and PetroTechnical Services all experienced sequential margin growth as a result of more favorable revenue mix.
Drilling Group fourth quarter revenue of $4.1 billion increased 2.2% while margin declined by 128 basis points to 16.8%.
The revenue increase was largely attributable to robust drilling and measurement activity in the Middle East &amp; Asia Area and the strong performance from M-I SWACO in the Europe/CIS/Africa Area.
The margin decline was primarily due to contractual delays in IPM and an overall less favorable revenue mix.
Fourth quarter Production Group revenue of $3.9 billion increased 6.8% sequentially as the result of strong completion Artificial Lift product sales across all areas combined with the new Framo subsea projects.
Pretax margin was essentially flat at 15% as the impact of the strong Completions Artificial Lift and Framo performances were largely offset by continued pricing pressure in U.S.
land as a result of excess hydraulic horsepower capacity in the market.
From a geographical perspective North America margin improved by 65 basis points to 19.2% while international margin declined 104 basis points to 20.5%.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 23.8% in the fourth quarter compared to 23.6% in the previous quarter.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $5.1 billion representing a $1.1 billion improvement as compared to the end of the third quarter.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.5 billion of CapEx and an improvement in working capital of approximately $850 million.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a 13.6% increase in our annual dividend to $1.25 per share.
This follows last year's 10% increase and the 19% increase in 2011 and reflects our commitment to generate and return excess cash to our shareholders.
During the full year 2012 we repurchased 14.1 million shares at an average price of $68.99 for a total of $972 million.
We did not repurchase any stock during the fourth quarter as our buyback activity for the first 9 months of the year more than offset the dilution caused by our stock-based compensation programs during all of 2012.
CapEx is expected to be approximately $3.9 billion in 2013 as compared to the $4.7 billion we spent in 2012 which included an acceleration of part of the first quarter of 2013 CapEx.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our fourth quarter results showed continued growth in key markets in addition to the typical year-end products software and multiclient sales.
However while revenue grew sequentially by 5% to set a new record for the company pretax operating margin slipped by 83 basis points and I will elaborate on this as I review the operational results by region.
Looking at the international markets revenue grew by 6% sequentially while margins were down 104 basis points from the 3-year high of last quarter.
Overall service activity and product sales were strong during the quarter.
However results were impacted by the previously stated seasonal slowdown and contractual delays and also mobilization costs for several new projects.
International service capacity remained tight in our Seismic Drilling &amp; Measurements Wireline and Well Testing product lines while pricing in terms of revenue per rig continued its slow but steady progression during the fourth quarter driven by strong execution new technology sales and proactive bidding on small to medium-sized contracts.
In Latin America revenue was up 11% sequentially and margins up 30 basis points driven by strong activity throughout the region.
In Mexico rig activity grew both offshore and on land with additional coiled tubing and stimulation work focused on unconventionals as well as a full deepwater well testing program.
Activity in our IPM projects remained robust and the ramp up in our Carrizo and Panuco SPM projects continued according to plan.
In Brazil we saw strong sequential growth driven by our Seismic and Well Testing product lines while overall offshore activity continue to shift from deepwater exploration in the Santos Basin towards development and production enhancement work in the Campos basin.
In Argentina activity also picked up during the quarter driven by drilling and stimulation activity in the Neuquen basin and from the start up of a new IPM project in the Vaca Muerta shale.
In Venezuela we have in recent years actively managed our activity levels relative to our receivables balance.
During the fourth quarter we saw a significant slowdown in the rates of payments and we are currently working closely with our customer to resolve the situation.
In the Middle East &amp; Asia revenue grew by 10% sequentially while margins were down 91 basis points driven by activity mix and startup costs for several IPM projects in the region.
During the quarter we saw the strongest growth in the Middle East where activity on both land and offshore in Saudi Arabia Kuwait and United Arab Emirates led to record revenue levels in these countries.
In Iraq revenue grew over 60% sequentially also reaching an all-time high as we started off the remaining rigs leading to our recent IPM contract wins.
Operational execution continues to be strong on our well construction project in Iraq however delays in obtaining the needed regulatory approvals impacted startup timing for several projects and consequently profitability for the quarter.
China again posted strong results with the seasonal slowdown on land being more than offset by activity growth offshore in Bohai Bay and the South China Sea.
The focus on unconventionals in China remains very strong.
And based on the strategic moves we made in 2012 we are well-positioned to capitalize on this growth opportunity going forward.
And in Australia we continue to grow on the fourth quarter as rig activity ramped up further in our IPM project in the Queensland coalbed methane and also due to strong offshore drilling activity in the Northwest.
In Europe/CIS/Africa revenue was down 1% sequentially and margins were down 203 basis points.
In the North Sea we saw the start of the seasonal slowdown in particular for seismic activity which had a significant impact on the sequential results.
However we maintain a positive outlook on the North Sea for 2013 driven by both exploration and development activity in Norway and the U.K.
In North Africa further contractual delays also had an impact on fourth quarter results.
While these delays continued into January we expect the situation to be resolved during the first quarter.
Sub-Saharan Africa had a good quarter on offshore activity in both West and East Africa.
Looking at 2013 the outlook for the region remained strong driven by East Africa exploration Angola pre-salt activity and Gulf of Guinea exploration and development work.
Russia and Central Asia saw flat sequential activity driven by the start of the seasonal winter slowdown both on land and offshore.
However we see solid growth in the coming year both in Western Siberia the Caspian region and in Sakhalin and the first arctic project is also expected to start up in the second quarter.
In North America sequential revenue was up 4% and margins were up 65 basis points driven by very strong performance in the Gulf of Mexico.
In North America land our results were again negatively impacted by lower-than-expected activity in Canada and by an 8% sequential drop in the U.S.
land rig count.
In our hydraulic fracturing business the lower pricing levels continued to penetrate our contract base and further impacted margins in the fourth quarter.
In addition with the drop in liquids activity we also saw clear signs of pricing weakness in our drilling coiled tubing and cased hole wireline product lines during the quarter.
Still the continued weakening of North America land margins was more than offset by strong activity and excellent performance in the Gulf of Mexico where deepwater drilling activity reached pre-Macondo levels as expected.
In WesternGeco we continue to operate 1 dual coil fleet in the Central Gulf while multiclient sales saw the normal year-end increase driven by the Central Gulf lease sales scheduled for March of this year.
Overall our strong operational and market share position in the Gulf of Mexico is becoming increasingly accretive to our North American margins.
Let me now turn to some of the technology highlights for the quarter.
In the Reservoir Characterization Group WesternGeco completed the first IsoMetrix season which included 3 commercial projects.
IsoMetrix results were presented at the SEG Annual Conference in November 2012 and the technology continues to attract a great deal of attention as exploration of difficult and complex reservoir prospects continues.
The first Explorer Class vessel upgrade through IsoMetrix the WesternGeco Vespucci is currently under way and 2 IsoMetrix vessels will be available in 2013.
In December 2011 we announced the purchase of the U.S.
company ThruBit which offers a cons down [ph] open hole logging suite that enables wiper trip logging of horizontal wells.
In 2012 ThruBit saw a rapidly growing client base and a 93% increase in revenue.
Recently the technology has been successfully applied in the Bakken to optimize the stimulation design in the horizontal sections helping to improve productivity and to reduce costs.
In the Drilling Group our Drilling &amp; Measurements product line saw increased offtake of the NeoScope sourceless formation evaluation service.
This technology offers a comprehensive suite of 12 formation evaluation measurements while eliminating the need for the traditional source and thereby reducing operational risks.
The offtake has been widespread covering North American shale plays Japanese methane hydrates conventional reservoirs in the Middle and Far East and remote deepwater exploration work offshore South America.
In the Production Group Well Services introduced the SPARK frac-through delivery platform in 2012 offering our vertically integrated customers access to Schlumberger's engineered fluid systems such as HiWAY while utilizing their own personnel and hydraulic horsepower.
The offtake of the new offering progressed well during 2012 with over 1 100 stages sold through a growing customer base in both the U.S.
and China and we expect continued growth for this offering in 2013.
Also in the quarter we announced the creation of OneSubsea a joint venture with Cameron to manufacture and develop products systems and services for the subsea oil and gas market.
This market represents a unique opportunity for growth as the new joint venture seeks to create a step change in the reservoir recovery through integration and optimization of the entire production system over the life of the field.
The integration of the production system will be accomplished by combining superior reservoir knowledge and wellbore capabilities with industry-leading subsea technologies altogether delivering enhanced productivity reliability and integrity.
We anticipate closing the transaction during the first quarter of this year.
Let's now turn to the macro environment where there continues to be uncertainty.
However GDP growth outlook for 2013 remains in line with the previous quarter at the back of positive data points from China and the U.S.
and a more or less unchanged situation in the Eurozone.
Looking at the global oil market 2013 demand is expected to grow at similar levels with 2012 excluding any major macroeconomic changes.
The supply side will see further growth in North America while the rest of non-OPEC production will likely continue to face challenges leading to a fairly similar coal and OPEC production in 2013.
Based on this we do not see any major change in the global spare capacity in the coming year and we expect Brent prices to remain in a broadly similar price band as seen in 2012.
In the international gas markets LNG prices in Asia are expected to continue to benefit from high demand in Japan and China while in Europe the impact of lower demand is expected to be offset by decline in domestic production leaving the market balance relatively unchanged.
Looking at our industry there have been no material changes to overall customer activity plans or sentiments during the quarter and we expect international E&amp;P spend to grow around 10% in the coming year.
Based on a favorable activity mix and continued focus on execution we expect to grow our international operating income in excess of this number in 2013.
In North America we see continued market uncertainty going forward.
U.S.
land liquids activity is expected to recover somewhat in the first half of the year.
But for the full year we see U.S.
land rig count slightly down versus 2012.
U.S.
natural gas production remains strong and at this stage we do not see a significant recovery in dry gas-related drilling activity in the coming year.
Based on this the industry will still be faced with oversupply of hydraulic horsepower.
In addition the lower rig activity in the fourth quarter has already created pricing pressure in many of the non-pressure pumping product lines in U.S.
land which will create further pressure on North America land margins moving forward.
So in summary we expect the overall market trends of 2012 to carry forward into 2013 with solid growth in international spending and strong activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico with the offsetting factor being continued challenges in North America land.
In this environment our well-balanced business portfolio wide geographical footprint and strong operational execution capabilities position us well to capitalize on these trends and to continue to show good growth in overall earnings per share.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call over to Malcolm for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paal.
We'll now open the call for questions.
Julie? [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So clearly another good move higher this quarter for international volumes but a little margin slippage as you highlighted.
It seems to me the contract delays the startup costs this is all pretty transitory.
Is that accurate? And if so take out the seasonal factors I guess for a second when do those type of startup costs and delays when do those abate or have they already abated at this point? Well I agree with you the impact we saw in profitability in Q4 is down to mix some of these transitory delays and the seasonal slowdown as you're referring to.
So most of these issues are more or less behind us in terms of what was unusual for Q4.
We will continue to see the normal seasonal slowdown in the North Sea Russia and China land in Q1.
And the only other lingering issue we have is the contractual situation in North Africa.
But overall the issues that were exceptional in Q4 are more or less behind us.
Research Division</strong> Okay good to hear.
And then we obviously agree with your international E&amp;P spending outlook for this year.
What do you see as the biggest growth areas for Schlumberger this year and are there any markets that you think could be particularly challenging as well excluding North America land? Well if I look at international next year we will see the most significant growth in ECA and MEA.
We will also see growth in Latin America.
But the overall activity levels in Brazil is more or less flat year-over-year so that will have an impact on Latin America growth.
But if I look at ECA we see significant growth overall in Sub-Saharan Africa where we have a very strong position.
And we also see quite significant growth in Russia.
So I would say ECA the main growth locomotives next year will be Sub-Saharan Africa and overall Russia both land and offshore.
And then in MEA I would say overall the Middle East Saudi Arabia Iraq but also Kuwait U.A.E.
Oman will all be very strong for us.
And in Asia it's predominantly China and Australia which is going to be driving growth.
We'll go to the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to maybe hit you up on the North American front.
And I know that there's still quite a bit of uncertainty on the U.S.
land but I think the indications are that there's going to be a pickup in some time here in the first quarter.
So with the pickup in activity on the horizon wouldn't it be safe to assume that margins would pretty much hit their low points in aggregate for North America land in the first quarter? And if not can you just kind of walk us through how you see things evolving? Well I'm not ready to predict exactly why North America land margins are going soft.
There is one new element of uncertainty this quarter which is further pricing pressure outside of hydraulic fracturing right? But if you look at our view on 2013 for North America we do expect the U.S.
land rig count to be up between about 100 and 150 rigs in Q1 and this is based on the feedback from our customers.
So that's in line with what you're indicating.
Now in terms of activity for the full year we still see U.S.
land rig count slightly down versus 2012 while the well count will be slightly up.
Now if you look at Canada the rig count is already over 500 so far in January.
But we still see the full year also being down in 2012 versus -- sorry down versus 2012.
Now then the other major uncertainty in North America land is pricing.
So it seems clear that we will continue to face oversupply of horsepower given the rig count outlook.
So we don't really see any significant recovery in hydraulic fracturing pricing in the coming year.
And then you have the ongoing uncertainty where we saw about a 5% pricing drop on average in the other product lines on land in Q4.
And this is going to have an impact going forward.
But I would say at this stage the further evolution is not clear.
And I think it's going to be a function of how quickly the rig count climbs back up going forward right? So I would say that in North America land there will continue to be margin challenges in at least in the coming 2 quarters as far as I see it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now as a follow-up -- thanks for that.
As a follow-up obviously the Gulf of Mexico has kind of been a positive dynamic.
Can you give us some indications of what you might expect for maybe revenue growth in the Gulf of Mexico year-on-year? And is that all going to be driven by this -- the Oilfield Services product line? Or is there going to be some combination of Seismic and services? Well we expect both drilling-related activities as well as Seismic to be strong in the Gulf of Mexico for this year.
If you look at the rig activity we don't see any major rig additions in H1 after we had the surge of I think 7 additional rigs in Q4.
But I mean overall rig activity year-over-year will be up more than 20% with that Q4 addition.
In terms of Seismic we are continuing to run 1 seismic fleet in the Central Gulf.
You'll see what happens in terms of late sales leading up to the new sales now in March.
But I'm also continuing to be positive on Seismic in the Gulf of Mexico.
The next question is from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Paal I wonder whether you could just elaborate a little bit more here on OneSubsea.
You talked about the importance of enhanced recovery at subsea a little while ago.
You closed the deal.
Could you now that you have some time to reflect on it help us understand a little bit more how having access to OneSubsea will change the core business at Schlumberger or enhance it? Well I think first of all the creation of OneSubsea will allow us to make a much more significant entry into the overall subsea business.
We have some very good I would say niche technologies.
And Framo have seen tremendous growth in recent years.
But it was evident that we needed to combine that with a much broader offering.
And I think Cameron is going to be an excellent partner for us in -- with that in mind.
So I think it's a bit early to say exactly what the impact in the rest of the business is going to be.
If you look at the rest of our business a lot of that will be focused around the life of field part of subsea around well intervention which is not something that we immediately are going to focus on in OneSubsea.
But the fact that we are much I would say deeper in sanctioning the business through this JV will allow us to move a lot closer to the customer side that focuses on these type of developments.
So overall I see it as a strong positive for us.
Research Division</strong> Does it enhance recovery as a tail end of a field? Don't you think it's the opportunity for Schlumberger through having access to -- I'm talking about the impact on Schlumberger's core business not what's put into OneSubsea.
Or is it getting involved early-stage in helping how to design wellbores and with based on the knowledge that you have from the reservoir side and how that could impact the design of a field development? I'm still not sure if I understand exactly how it's going to enhance Schlumberger's business the most.
It's a good question.
It's actually both.
So through the OneSubsea JV we'll obviously be much more involved with the customer discussions around how to develop these fields.
And that has to do with our reservoir characterization capabilities and it also has to do with our I would say wellbore capabilities around ESPs and intelligent completions.
So I think both the reservoir understanding as well as the wellbore capability that we have will be integral to how these developments will be done in the future.
And then you add a much more intelligent wellbore to a more sophisticated production plan say on the seafloor including both boosting and compression and potentially separation that is how the overall development in my mind are going to be done in the future.
So we will have that early involvement where through the JV we will potentially secure people with reservoir background and well background into the project teams.
And then beyond that you have intervention and I would say later feel the activities that we will continue to be involved with as the life of the field progresses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds as if you are trying to lift Schlumberger's position versus the old company to a higher level at an earlier stage on how fields are developed.
Would that be correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Second question will be on IsoMetrix.
Could you give us any kind of feedback from these initial studies on how they have helped your clients solve more complex issues? Are there any examples of that now? Why it's still early days right? We have done 3 commercial surveys in this season.
I think the -- it will take a little bit of time to process the data but the early indication from what we have seen from the data together with our customers is very positive right? And the ability to I would say image the reservoir much more accurately will benefit in particular the prospects that are more difficult to image.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well finally Simon I'd just like to congratulate you on the helping reign in the CapEx there and drive free cash flow.
And if you could also convince your guys to do some more buybacks then I think that would be very good for the share price.
We'll go to the line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question Paal Simon I don't know which of you want to address this one but I do want to follow up on Ole's comment on the lower CapEx and in particular as it relates to asset turns and the efficiency initiatives that are currently under way.
There are 2 aspects in particular that I'd like to ask you to address.
One is the reliability of the tools and two is just overall utilization.
Both seem to be going up quite a bit with revenue growth forecasts up and CapEx down.
Could you speak to those? Well let me just -- yes thanks Michael.
What -- let me take just the overall CapEx.
So as we said we will spend $3.9 billion in 2003 (sic) [2013] as compared to what we spent $4.7 billion.
And it is the shift of activity obviously that impacted our decision to lower CapEx.
And we in 2012 had accelerated a bit into Q4 what we were going to spend in 2013.
But you are absolutely right.
The efficiency plans and programs that we have will improve the 2 turns and asset turns that we experienced in the past.
It is an early stage in 2003 (sic) [2013] to see a significant impact from this but it is a plan that is going to take several quarters if not years to get to a -- an optimum situation.
But it is reflected in 2013 but the major part in 2013 is really more of an activity shift acceleration in 2012 and to a lesser extent the performance that you referred to.
But the performance eventually will be a major factor in determining the CapEx spent in Schlumberger and the -- between the different segments.
Is this good enough? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes it's very good.
And maybe Paal for the follow-up I'm curious if internationally there are any signs of an emerging interest in tight oil or unconventional applications to conventional reserves or even shale oil? Is what's happened in the Bakken and Eagle Ford starting to go global yet? Well I think there's a general high interest of unconventionals in oil around the world.
You find it in many countries.
But where we stand today is it's still in early stages in most places.
Whether it's all about data gathering I would say exploration in terms of can these resources be developed in an economic and viable way if I look at the 2 countries which are probably furthest down the road of -- on doing something that is more material it is China and Argentina.
And China is predominantly focused on shale gas at this stage but I think there is more of a balance in Argentina between liquids and gas.
So those are the 2 countries which I think will see the most activity increase in the near term.
LLC Research Division</strong> So from a field standpoint it's still very much a gas focus but is it fair to say that oil is perhaps sort of emerging from a science standpoint at this point? Or is it still too early? Well I think it's still too early to say how predominant that's going to be.
I think the interest is there for the shale.
There's a lot more data gathering and testing that needs to be done to see what's the balance between gas and liquids.
We'll go to the line of Scott Gruber with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> While the subsea tree market continues to grow investors have been disappointed by a drop in Cameron's market share.
Now that you had a chance to look under the hood of their business what do you think are the prospects for a share gain in trees by OneSubsea? And what can Schlumberger do to help push for greater share of awards? Well I don't want to make any specific comments about Cameron market shares or trees.
I think we had a very good dialogue and discussion with Cameron in terms of their view of the market versus our view of the market.
We have very coinciding views that it is very important to try to view something differently and focus a lot more on production optimization and recovery optimization.
The tree will be a key part of that but there's also a lot of other aspects around the subsea production plant as well as I also referred to earlier in terms of the wellbore technology and reservoir understanding.
So when it comes to the situation around Cameron trees market share I think you need to talk to Cameron about that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Simon can you provide a split of growth or decline in the CapEx in '13 between North American and international? The -- we're not going to go into all of these details but the majority of the spend in 2013 will be related to international.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So will international be up a little bit in '13 then? Yes on an average yes it is up compared to 2012 and the reduction will be in North America.
Next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Paal with regard to your outlook you mentioned that your expectation was for international E&amp;P capital spending to be up 10% and your growth in operating international operating income to outpace the 10% growth in overall E&amp;P capital spending.
Could you talk a little bit about your expectations for international revenue growth? I would expect that you would also expect that to be up outpace the overall growth in E&amp;P capital spending as well.
Is that correct or no? I think that's fair to say.
I'm not going to go into the details of exactly what our numbers we are targeting.
But I think it's fair to say that both revenue and operating income we are aiming to grow that faster than that spend or rig count increase right? And just for reference if you look at our 2012 numbers we grew revenue 16% internationally and operating income by 31% at the back end of a 8% growth in rig count.
So I'm not saying we're going to repeat those numbers but I think there is potential and we have capabilities of doing what I'm just saying.
Research Division</strong> Is there any reason to believe that your international incremental margins are going to be markedly different from the close to 35% number that you generated in 2012? I don't think there's any -- anything that is dramatically different in the international markets 2013 versus 2012.
While we can do the exact same incremental margins we will obviously continue to focus on doing that but I'm not commenting anything at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me can we talk a little bit about the Saudi outlook? Coming out of the third quarter call you mentioned that activity in 2013 for Saudi was going to be strong largely based upon the pretty considerable increase in activity over 2012 and persisting over the course of 2013.
But you did not expect if memory serves for activity in Saudi Arabia to grow considerably in '13 versus exit 2012.
Is that the same position that you have today? I think based on our discussions with Saudi Aramco over the past quarter we have changed it slightly based on feedback.
As you said we ended the year on about 134 rigs which was pretty much in line with the plan that Saudi Aramco laid out early in 2012.
We saw very strong [indiscernible] activity rig lift activity in Q4 and also they're starting up a deepwater rig in the Red Sea in addition to the shallow water exploration that they have there.
Now in terms of the outlook we are expecting around 160 rigs up from the 134.
So 160 rigs by year-end 2013 and that's the latest rig count we have from Saudi Aramco.
Research Division</strong> So the 160 versus 134 is actually considerably better than what you thought coming out of the third quarter call correct? That's correct.
We'll go to the line of Angie Sedita with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> Paal I believe you see China as one of your fastest-growing GeoMarkets in 2013 and it is already a fairly good-sized market for you.
Can you talk about some of the opportunities there? And can you also discuss the traction you've seen with the Anton Oil joint venture? Yes I can.
So if you look at the market trends in China for a long time we had a very strong position offshore in Bohai Bay.
But on land our market access has been more limited mainly due to the Chinese operators predominantly using their own Chinese service companies to do their work.
Now with the unconventional activity and the many new players entering there this really opens up the land market and at the same time we're also seeing higher demand for new technology and also the IPM business model from our traditional Chinese customers as they embark on more complex land projects right? So at the back end of these trends we've done a number of strategic moves in 2012 as you know.
The 20% stake in Anton Oil is one.
The other thing we did with Anton Oil was that we formed a JV with them focused on IPM projects and oil cost on China land.
So it is still early days for that JV but we are actively pursuing work and it gives us another I would say entrance into the China land market.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
And then on North America you mentioned the 5% drop in pricing and your non-pressure product -- non-pressure pumping product lines in Q4.
Are you still seeing softness in pricing in Q1? Are you seeing any slowing of softness in Q1? Or is it status quo? Well I don't really have a lot of information yet on Q4 -- sorry on Q1 so that's why I'm saying it's still uncertain.
We saw that drop in pricing in Q4 which was partly lead to the softness in rig activity.
So it's unclear yet whether that is going to continue down in Q1 or whether the rig uptick which we are hoping to see will stabilize it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow on non-pressure pumping given the softness in pricing what would it take for you to consider unstacking equipment? Would you need to see long-term contracts? Or would you need to see better pricing? Well we operate on the product of pricing and utilization so if we can -- if that product is over our target or hurdle we will reactivate fleets.
We're not planning to do any of that at this stage but we're obviously continuing to follow the situation closely.
In Q4 we kept the crude count flat versus Q3 so we didn't lay down any more crudes in Q4.
Next question is from Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Paal I was just curious if you could talk a little bit about -- you mentioned not only in the press release but on your prepared comments regarding you're starting to at least be proactive on bidding on the small- and medium-sized contracts in terms of international pricing push here and I'm just curious what kind of success rate are you having so far in making that push? And what's really driving that in terms of do you feel like now is the time to do that? Is it because we've pretty much booked if you will or is in the rearview mirror the big larger tenders that were a source of price competition last year? Those are behind us it's now giving you a better fairway to go ahead and push more aggressively on these small- or medium-sized contracts? Yes I think that's fair.
On the -- as we talked about throughout the conference calls in the past year we have been pushing or testing pricing on these smaller to medium-term contracts basically throughout 2012.
And I would say our success rate has been reasonably good.
You win some and you lose some whenever you try to push pricing up.
But I would say that overall we are please with the contract win we have for those type of contracts and that type of pricing strategy.
So you're right to say that on the large contracts which is multi-service line and also multiyear multi-rig it is still quite competitive.
But most of those contracts we still represent a relatively small part of our overall contract volume.
Most of those contracts are already bid.
Not all of them are awarded but most of them are bid based on where we stand in the cycle.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And I guess just one follow-up.
I guess fair to say Paal given your comments around the operating income growth you see internationally I guess fair to think that your earnings growth 2013 versus 2012 you're still expecting that to be double digit double-digit growth this year.
Is that fair? Yes I would say we're overall still aiming for double-digit growth in earnings per share in 2013 so this is assuming no major setback in the global economy and also no further significant setbacks in North America right? So I already highlighted the key growth drivers in international being ECA and MEA while the offsetting factor is going to be what's happening in North America land.
But yes overall we're still aiming for double-digit growth in earnings per share in 2013.
Research Division</strong> If I could slip one more in.
I guess everybody's trying to do the math in terms of just looking to North America performance and including the Gulf of Mexico contribution is it fair to say maybe Simon is a question for you 1/4 of North America revenue this quarter is coming from the Gulf of Mexico? Is it that high? It's correct that the Gulf of Mexico includes the -- compensated for the drop in land yes.
Research Division</strong> Right but in terms of just a percentage of your revenue contribution in North America from the Gulf it's about 25% this past quarter? A little bit lower.
We'll go to David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Paal you had mentioned the increase in Saudi rig count this year.
Can you characterize about where that growth is coming from? Is that primarily natural gas related? Well I don't have the details of it.
There is some -- obviously there's some natural gas in it but it's obviously still oil as well.
So I don't have the breakdown for you.
I have the breakdown in terms of drilling and workover.
The 160 is about 117 118 on drilling and the balance of 42 being workover.
Okay.
And can you discuss kind of some of your unconventional workover there? Is that starting to become a bigger part of your business over there? Are you sort of in some kind of reservoir characterization stage? Or are you starting to kind of go at these wells and starting to look at doing some horizontal wells this year or you're expecting to? Yes I'll leave most of the commentary to how Saudi Aramco wants to communicate around their unconventionals to them.
But we are involved with the project which is still largely in the exploration type of phase right? So still it's limited in terms of oil activity what we are involved with.
Okay.
And if I could just -- completely unrelated follow-up on your North America market you talked about your SPARK initiatives some more contributing this quarter.
Can you just kind of give us a sense as to basically how many kind of pressure pumping fleets that would represent? In other words how many fleets are you not using and using and applying SPARK? And also who are the ideal customers for these initiatives? Yes.
So if you look at the number of 1 100 stages it's obviously a very big number at this stage and that number is also split between China and the U.S.
So it is not a significant part of our overall capacity or revenue that is coming through this model but we see that's an interesting model as we continue to develop these engineered fluid system or frac fluid systems.
So overall today it is not significant but it's a new business model that we believe could grow to be more significant over time.
And the type of customers that review it this is typically the either smaller independent players who wants access to higher-technology frac fluid systems or vertically integrated customers that we do this for.
Okay.
I guess my last question kind of related to that is there seems to be quite a bit of a shift in operator behavior in North America over the last 6 months.
What would you attribute that to? We hear a lot talk about budgets being used up and whatnot but is this something that's about field economics and their efforts to lower service costs? And if so where do you think they are in terms of their goals of cost? Are they satisfied where service costs are now? You just mentioned pricing on some of these other products have come down.
That sort of implies to me they're not really satisfied.
How do you think about it in terms of their economics right now? Well I would say all the customers in North America that I'm talking to are still looking for us to help them drive more cost out of the system whether that is efficiency or technology.
Exactly what transpired in H2 or in particular Q4 in terms of the lower activity it could be a combination of lower commodity prices in terms of the subset reference prices below the WTI.
I also think that a number of these customers have been operating north of 100% cash flow and they felt it was prudent to scale back and then also you had quite a significant impact of the holiday season in Q4.
So I think all of these elements were contributing towards the drop in activity.
So I don't think there's been a really material change to the economics but I think that the proof of that is going to be what happens now in Q1 whether they're going to be ramping back up again.
We'll go to the line of Jim Crandell with Dahlman Rose.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paal how do you see seismic vessels supply/demand and pricing shaping up for the spring/summer season? Well if you look at -- our overall market outlook for seismic remains positive.
The capacity in the market still remains tight.
If you look at our bookings for Q1 we are more or less fully booked and Q2 is filling up relatively fast.
So most of the pricing -- sorry most of the bids that we have won for Q1 and Q2 are more or less at the same pricing that we did at -- in Q3 and Q4 which is it's about 10% up from that reference price of 2011.
So there hasn't been a further increase in pricing as of yet but we still see the opportunity now to cut pricing further for what remains to be a book for Q2 and also for H2.
So we remain positive in terms of our outlook for the market.
I'm not really concerned about all the capacity in the market at this stage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question Paal is for the formation evaluation business in deepwater I think your competitors were targeting a big push in that area given that this is the most exciting growth area in the global oil service market.
Do you feel now that we're sort of well into this upturn in deepwater with still -- a big part of it's still ahead that you've maintained your market share globally in terms of from doing FE work on ultra deepwater wells? Yes I'm very comfortable with both our technology portfolio how they continue to execute in these type of projects and overall the rate that we are winning work at right? So I don't think there's been any negatives around this.
And in fact I think we continue to perform very strongly both in terms of market share revenue growth and profitability.
So I'm pleased with the progress that we're showing on the formation and valuation side on deepwater.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is this in the area Paal that could show above average price increases too? Well pricing is already quite strong in these types of environment linked to the higher rig rate and also linked to the high -- with the high importance our customers are putting on operational integrity and reliability.
So it could be that we could see more pricing power there but I would say pricing there is already quite strong.
Next question is from Jud Bailey with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Follow-up question on the Gulf of Mexico you highlighted the strong growth in North America offshore.
I was wondering if you could give us some sense -- obviously there's some seismic in there in the Gulf.
And [indiscernible] me if I'm wrong but you include Canada and Alaska in there.
Was all that or stop between seismic in the Gulf of Mexico? Or was there any big contribution from like Eastern Canada or Alaska in that offshore revenue increase? Well they are included in -- when we talk about offshore in North America but both Alaska and Eastern Canada are relatively small compared to the size of our Gulf of Mexico business.
I would say the predominant driver of the sequential increase in revenue is the Gulf of Mexico.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another question on Mexico.
As international markets go it looks like it's going to be one of the more positive ones for 2013.
Could you give a little color or insight as to how you see that market developing over the next couple of years between some of the onshore activity and then -- and now they're getting more active offshore as well and what product lines? Yes I mean overall we're seeing pretty solid growth in activity in 2013 for Mexico both land and offshore.
There is deepwater activity going on.
There is conventional shallow water activity and then you have a range of types of activity on land all the way from the unconventionals in the North.
You have normal third-party work and we have the IPM and SPM type of contracts.
For 2013 in addition to the growth in activity what we're also seeing is we are facing significant tendering activity in the next couple of quarters.
What we're also seeing now is that several smaller players from U.S.
land is starting to show up in Mexico which could make the whole tendering environment even more competitive.
So we'll see how that plays out.
But that's one aspect that we are looking at.
The other key for Mexico is also that PEMEX continues its overall transition towards the production incentive type of contract.
And we really like this model and we compete quite well in those type of bids.
And the latest we've heard from PEMEX is that the Chicontepec SPM bid round is expected to be around midyear of 2013 so we'll obviously be preparing for that.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just have one more quick follow-up Paal I just want to make sure I heard you correctly.
In your comments earlier did say you anticipated about 100 to 150 rig increase in the U.S.
rig count in the first half of the year? Based on the customer feedback that we've had we are saying up between 100 150 rigs in Q1.
That's what we heard from our customers.
Next question is from Brad Handler with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to stick with the U.S.
as well please.
You spoke about I think raising your stage count in the fourth quarter of '12 for hydraulic fracturing.
I wanted to confirm that please.
And then I suspect that you think that the stage that that was a nice move in market share for you.
I would imagine you think that with activity being down the way it was on the rig side that stage count was probably down for the industry.
So can you confirm that and maybe quantify for us? And then we can talk about how we got there.
No I didn't mention anything about stage counts for Q4.
I would just say that we haven't thought anything around that.
I would say that overall in hydraulic fracturing we have had a good I would say couple of quarters in terms of securing work so I wouldn't be surprised that our market share could be up somewhat.
But in terms of stage count sequentially I haven't mentioned anything about that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Maybe I misread it or misheard.
No problem.
I guess then let me just -- an unrelated follow-up I suppose just more broadly on IPM maybe asking globally how might you expect that revenue to compare in '13 to '12? Well I think IPM is one of our faster growing product lines.
We see a range of type of projects that IPM is getting involved with all the way from just straight integrated service or project management for say deepwater drilling offshore where we simply coordinate the interface without taking any project management risk to the project but when we have a wide range of services on these remote rigs for instance that coordination will -- is one thing that IPM takes on.
The other part is the traditional turnkey well construction which continues to also grow in time for us right? So we are very active with IPM and it's doing very well for us.
And we have time for one final question from Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> The -- after the Q3 results the commentary you guys had around kind of security and political turmoil concerns in North Africa and Mid East were kind of relatively muted in terms of your concerns overall for the region.
Can you just talk about how that's changed in the last 3 months if any? Obviously with events of the last peak here [ph] we are -- we're relooking at the whole situation there.
It is -- if you talk about Algeria and Libya they're already operating there with quite stringent security measures in banks.
With what has happened in the last week we are relooking at that.
We are very prudent in how we go about doing business in any part of the world to make sure that we can offer up the required security for the people that we put into workforce there.
So it's too early to say exactly what the impact of this is going to be but I would just say that in these regions with high risk we already have very stringent security measures in place.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just last question unrelated Paal you mentioned around Venezuela and receivables and the payments there slowing.
Is that -- does that change your appetite for taking on revenue at this point or is it just something that you're throwing out there as an item to be aware of? It is an item to be aware of.
We are -- we have a long-standing relationship with Petrovesa.
There is -- there are some challenges that they are facing in the country at this stage.
We are committed to Venezuela for the long term.
They have a massive resource base and we want to be there for the long term.
So we are currently just working very closely with them to kind of resolve the situation.
Now on behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Julie will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 a.m.
today through midnight February 18 2013.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 269201.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Malcolm Theobald.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Julie.
Good evening and good morning from China and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited first quarter 2013 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from Shanghai where a Schlumberger Limited board meeting took place yesterday.
Joining us on the call today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
First quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.01.
This is $0.07 lower sequentially and $0.05 higher when compared to the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we recorded $0.07 of charges relating to the currency devaluations in Venezuela.
Oilfield services first quarter revenue of $10.7 billion decreased 4.5% sequentially while the pretax operating margins declined 37 basis points.
More than half of the $506 million sequential revenue decrease is the result of the absence of the year-end surge in the product software and WesternGeco multiclient sales that we experienced in Q4.
The remainder of the decrease was largely attributable to the seasonal weather-related slowdowns we typically experience in Q1.
Given the significant impact that these seasonal factors had on our sequential performance our comments will focus on year-on-year changes unless otherwise noted.
Oilfield services revenue increased 7.6% year-on-year while pretax operating margins declined by 59 basis points.
Highlights by product group were as follows.
Reservoir characterization revenue of $2.8 billion increased 8.5% while margins grew by 94 basis points to 27%.
These increases are primarily attributable to a very strong performance in testing services on improved offshore exploration activity Drilling Group revenue of $4.1 billion increased 9.2% and margins improved by 57 basis points to 17.9%.
These improvements were led by drilling and measurements on strong offshore drilling activity across all international areas and the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Production Group revenue of $3.8 billion increased 6.9% while margins fell by 237 basis points to 15.1%.
The effects of ongoing pricing pressure for well services technologies in U.S.
land more than offset by double-digit revenue growth across all other segments.
This performance was led by the strong Schlumberger Production Management and subsea product lines.
The margin declined for the group was entirely attributable to the impact of the continued excess hydraulic horsepower capacity in U.S.
land.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 23.3% in the first quarter compared to 23.8% in the previous quarter and 23.6% in the first quarter of 2012.
Net debt increased $162 million during the quarter to $5.3 billion reflecting the seasonal deterioration in working capital that we typically see during the first quarter.
During the quarter we spent $894 million on CapEx and we repurchased 2.5 million shares at an average price of $77.63.
CapEx is still expected to be approximately $3.9 billion in 2013 as compared to $4.7 billion we spent in 2012.
Now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our first quarter results were solid driven primarily by the overall strength and progress of our international business but also by continued margin resilience in North America in spite of both activity and pricing challenges.
All together earnings per share were up 5% compared to the same quarter of last year.
Looking at the international markets in more detail our revenue grew 30% year-over-year while operating income was up 21% and margin expanded 135 basis points demonstrating the strength of both the international market potential as well as our execution capabilities.
Sequentially revenue was down 5% due to the normal seasonal slowdown in the Northern hemisphere and the Far East while operating margin was up three basis points driven in part by strong performance from our IPM and SPM product lines.
In terms of Q1 activity the international rig count was up 7% versus the same quarter last year.
Pricing trends remained stable with revenue per rig continuing to slow but steady progress now observed over the past six quarters.
In this environment we continue to drive high-end technology sales throughout our international operations and we are also actively adding our latest new technology introductions to our existing contract base.
New technology sales together with strong execution and operational performance helps drive both effective pricing and margin levels.
In Latin America revenue was up 8% year-over-year while operating margin was up 123 basis points driven by strong execution cost control and new technology sales.
As previously communicated during the quarter we have had a series of very constructive meeting in Venezuela with PDVSA and we expect to finalize a new payment agreement in the near-future and we anticipate ramping up activity to meet the current and future needs of PDVSA's development and production plans.
Elsewhere in Latin America Ecuador posted the highest growth rates in the first quarter driven by excellent performance in our Shushufindi SPM project.
The de-risking of our development plan is now largely complete and we are operating four drilling and two workover rigs.
With production levels progressing in line with our plans the project is set to generate significant value to both Ecuador and Schlumberger in the coming years.
In Argentina activity was also strong in the first quarter again driven by drilling and stimulation activity in the Neuquen basin and from our IPM project in the Vaca Muerta shale.
In Brazil overall rig count remained flat in Q1.
However we did see activity starting to shift back from work over to drilling for several deepwater rigs.
Our main focus in Q1 was on the startup of new contracts.
As previously stated the Brazil contracts were generally bid at very competitive prices for basic technology.
However given the complex and challenging operating environment the use of high-end technologies can create significant value for both our customer and for Schlumberger.
We are therefore already in discussions to add our latest technologies to the contracts and we will continue to actively introduce new and value adding products and services over the span of these long-term contracts.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue grew by 21% year-over-year while the operating margin was 125 basis points driven by strong performance throughout the region.
In the Middle East we again saw the strongest growth in Saudi Arabia where activity is progressing as planned and in Iraq where operational performance on our IPM rigs was strong.
The United Arab Emirates and Kuwait also posted solid growth in Q1 driven by higher customer activity and further supported by market share gains from recent contract wins.
In Asia the normal seasonal slowdown led to lower sequential activity in both China and Australia but this did not prevent both tier markets from posting very strong year-over-year growth numbers.
In China growth continues to come from both complex conventional land developments as well as from offshore.
While in Australia Queensland unconventionals gas activity together with deepwater drilling activity in the Northwest will lead the growth in the coming year.
As stated in the January call we expect strong growth from the Middle East and Asia in 2013 and our Q1 results are so far validating this trend.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue was up 11% year-over-year and the operating margin was up 120 basis points.
Growth in the first quarter was driven by Sub-Sahara Africa where activity was robust throughout the region.
Angola was particularly strong for us in Q1 driven by development and exploration drilling as well as Marine seismic operations.
In North Africa growth was limited during the first quarter.
While the pending contract issues were generally result security has again emerged as the primary challenge and had a significant impact on activity levels during the quarter.
Our customers on now in the process of evaluating future activity plans and the need for additional security measures and we expect activity to remain subdued as long as this process is ongoing.
In the North Sea we saw the normal seasonal slowdown due to winter weather but activity still showed solid year-over-year growth as the transition from exploration to development and production related work continued.
In Russia and Central Asia we also experienced the normal seasonal slowdown in activity.
Still the region posted one of the highest year-over-year growth rate in the first quarter driven by offshore activity in Sakhalin and by land activity in Kazakhstan.
Russia and Central Asia remains on track to be one of our main growth drivers in 2013.
In North America revenue was down 4% while the operating margin was down 356 basis points compared the same quarter last year.
Still at 19.1% our margin remained significantly higher than in previous cycles and is a very clear testament to our newly built strength in the North American market.
Looking at the North America land market in detail U.S.
land rig activity in the first quarter came in below expectations although the data showed some increase in total rig count towards the end of the quarter.
At the same time drilling efficiency remained strong asset utilization improved from the low level seen over the holiday season and lower guar cost provided some relief to pressure pumping margins.
Still the main concern in North America land remains the pricing where the downwards trend in drilling wireline and coiled tubing seen in the fourth quarter continued in Q1.
In addition we also saw further downward pricing pressure on a number of hydraulic fracturing bids during the quarter adding further uncertainty to the North America land market outlook.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico the overall rig count remained strong but operational delays relating to the change out of subsea connectables on the deepwater rigs had a negative impact on our results for parts of the quarter.
However at this stage we expect these issues to generally be behind us and that the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico contributions to our business will be in line with expectations for the year.
In WesternGeco we continue to operate one deal closely in the Central Gulf while multi-client sales relating to the Central Gulf lease sales in March came in well below expectations in the first quarter.
Let me now turn to technology where I would like to highlight our integration capabilities and the growing value it brings to our business.
As our customers continue to look for ways to reduce finding development and lifting costs a number of them are now seeking much closer and broader partnerships with us to add up more value from the E&amp;P value chain.
This includes more collaborative problem solving for utilizing our complementary expertise and by further leveraging our wide technology offering and broad integration capabilities.
We have carefully built up our integration capabilities over the past 15 years by developing the required distance processes and people competencies and by filling unmatched spirit of teamwork through our metrics organization.
In terms of our integration offering we had a range of business models and profit area with varying levels of integration and contract rigs.
Through our IPM product line we offer project coordination for contracts offshore exploration and development project long-term currency contract for land well construction intervention and production enhancement campaigns for mature fields both offshore and onshore as well as P&amp;A activity for aging offshore installations.
Today we operate these types of contracts throughout our global operations covering all parts of our customer base.
In addition to our IPM product line we also offer a complete field management capabilities to our SPM product line where we reach the value of our products and services and sometimes cash in return for fee per barrel of incremental production.
Today our overall integration capabilities represent a key strength and competitive advantage for us in the marketplace and going forward we will continue to develop these capabilities in order to help our customers extract more value from their oil and gas assets.
Let's then turn to the macro environment where we so far this year have seen mixed data from the main economies including China the U.S.
and euro zone still the overall outlook for 2013 remains largely unchanged from the update we gave in January both in terms of GDP growth as well as the fundamentals for the global oil and gas markets.
Looking at our industry the major trends from 2012 are as expected continuing this year.
In the international market we see strong and consistent growth in key regions such as Sub-Sahara Africa Russia Middle East China and Australia and the customer activity in general progressing in line with our stated expectations.
In North America land the outlook remains uncertain driven by lower than expected rig activity and by further pricing weakness.
Cold weather and flattening natural gas production has led to longer than expected storage withdrawals in the U.S.
in the past couple of months however this is yet to result in an increase in dry gas drilling activity.
In this environment our entire organization remains focused on growth margin and earnings out performance throughout our global operations.
This commitment and drive is starting to have a direct impact on our results as seen by the following three facts.
First our international leadership position in terms of operating margins and shareholder income is as strong as ever and our international leverage in terms of operating income is approximately 70% of the total.
Second following the restructuring of our land business we have recently taken the lead in terms of operating margins also in North America.
Third we have on average delivered double digit growth in earnings per share over the past few years and we are as previously stated looking to extend this trend in 2013.
These results combined with the collective motivation of the 1 200 Schlumberger employees to do even better going forward gives me a lot of confidence in our future ability to outperform and to provide superior returns to our investors.
Thank you very much.
I will now hand the call over to Malcolm for the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Paal.
Julie we will open the call for questions now.
(Operator Instructions) With that we will go to the line of David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
The oil price weakness has really been weighing on these energy stocks clearly.
I know you touched on it in your remarks there but when you look at the fundamentals of the oil market right now has anything changed really as you have been looking at the fundamentals? Is anything getting you concerned regarding outlook? Or is it really basically the same as you saw it 90 days ago? Well at this stage we haven’t really changed our outlook.
We have obviously seen the recent drop in brent prices which is mainly driven by the recent macro numbers and also seasonally lower demands but we still expect very strong support around the $100 per barrel.
As the amount picks up from the seasonal low in Q2.
So as overall we have not really changed our view (inaudible)? Are any markets out there particularly vulnerable to a slowdown or is there still more than enough cushion here that you don’t really get too concerned here? No I am not overly concerned.
I think with (inaudible) both on WTI and brent.
At this stage I think both at current levels both the international activity as well as North American liquids activity is pretty solid at these levels.
Okay and could you just touch a little bit more on the Middle East just to expand to some of your comments there.
Last quarter I believe you said you were expecting the rig count to get to about 170 rigs.
Do you still think that? Is it higher? Is it lower than that? Also if could touch on how much of the incremental demand is coming from unconventional gas? Okay well if you look at the Q1 performance in Saudi that was as I mentioned quite strong for us.
The total rigs at the end of the quarter was now up to 140.
We are still maintaining the number of 170 rigs by year-end.
So really no change to the Saudi outlook.
It is progressing pretty much in line with what we were expecting.
What was the second part of your question? I was just curious as to how much of that incremental demand that you are seeing is going to go towards unconventional gas or the tight gas that they are going for these days? Okay so I would think 2013 that is still going to be quite limited.
There are pilots ongoing which we are involved with but in terms of overall rig count and activity levels these are still quite small in the overall picture in Saudi.
So not a significant part in 2013.
We will go to line of James West with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Paal one quick question and a follow-up which maybe a little bit longer but do you still expect 10%-age type international activity growth this year? Yes.
That is roughly where we see.
There is no real change to what we said in January.
About 10% increase in international E&amp;P spend.
Okay perfect.
As a follow-up so if we think about international pricing you obviously cited six quarters of increased revenue per rig.
One of your competitors this morning cited Saudi and the ramp up there as a potential catalyst to create an inflection point.
I know one of your other competitors has talked recently about this is the time now to raise pricing.
Are you seeing evidence from competition in the market? I know you guys have been trying to push pricing for a while here have you guys seen evidence that your competitors are now on board with this and starting to push price internationally? Well if anything I haven’t seen any significant change in behavior.
I think we have moved on from the nonsense pricing that we saw a few years back.
But apart from that no dramatic change in behavior from the main players as far as we have see.
We have continued to be able to drive revenue per rig which is kind of the overall pricing indicator.
That has to do with new technology sales it has to do with efficiency and it has to do with the overall quality of our operations.
But in terms of this pricing other than testing pricing on small and medium sized rigs but a reasonable success there hasn't been any dramatic change and we still don't foresee any major inflection in 2013 based on where we stand today.
Okay.
Very helpful.
Thanks Paal.
Thank you.
We'll go to line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
So just to follow-up on that question you know there are obviously indications that with the tone on the international market as at least from what I can pick up drastically improved over the course of the past couple of quarters as it relates to the outlook.
Schlumberger has been in a strong international position for quite some time and I think your margin this quarter kind of demonstrate that progress.
As you go forward are you picking up though that there is any increase and sense of urgency at the customer base and have you envisioned Schlumberger continuing to maintain the wide margin differentials that you have enjoyed over the last 10 15 years? Well first of all I mean we are maintaining our positive view on the international market which stems all the way back from last year right? For reference last year we grew revenue by 16% and operating income 31% on the back of an 8% growth in recon and this is really the kind of numbers we are aiming for again this year.
So overall we haven't really changed our view on the international market we're just consistently focusing on it and we consistently delivering in that marketplace.
And in terms of protecting our market differentiation our market lead I mean that's what we have been doing over the past 5 or 10 or 15 years but there is nothing really new there.
We view that through the leverage of our size our infrastructure our local knowledge and the fact that we've in these markets for 50 60 70 years and also the fact that we have a strong focus on execution both from an efficiency and a quality standpoint.
So there's really nothing new in terms of how they are going about it.
It is just progressing quite fine in our view.
Okay.
Then just as a follow-up.
I know investors were trying to get their arms around the joint venture that you did with Forest last week.
Just wondering if you might be able to take this opportunity to give the perspective on that and with my understanding being the key element here you are trying to increase or accelerate the uptake in technology in the U.S.
market relative to where you've already seen internationally so I wonder if you provide additional color on that? Yes.
That's fair.
So if you look at our SPM we have been pursuing production for a number of years and today we are earning about 10 of these SPM projects worldwide and these are generally fee per barrel contracts with no working interest.
Now in recent years we have invested significantly in the shale workflows and shale technologies and it is all about taking a much more scientific approach to drive production and recovery.
Now our approach is used extensively in the pilot projects in the international market however as we talked about before the offtake is quite slow in the U.S.
with the exception of some key customers so we wanted to do was to create an SPM project in the U.S.
to really have a showcase and be able to demonstrate our capabilities.
The Forest deal became an opportunity and initially we aim for the traditional SPM contract model here that wasn't workable for a variety of reasons so the working interest was really only solution to get the deal done but it was much more of a consequence rather than the objective so this is a one-off deal in terms of taking working interest and we have no plans or pursuing this type of contract model further and it's really key for us to demonstrate our capabilities within the shale technologies and shale workflow and get a higher return on the significant R&amp;D investments we made in to this area so that is the whole rationale for the deal.
Okay.
Appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is from Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Paal I'd like to follow-up on the SPM model in particular what differentiates it from IPM and integrated or bundled services that your competitors might provide? You mentioned fee per barrel but what are the true characteristics in addition to the revenue model with respect to the breadth of services and the ability to leverage the technology? Well if you look at the SPM model we will then take full control in terms of operation and decision making when it comes to the field development or rather it's a some set of a field or a complete field.
In the IPM modules the overall decision making is still generally governed by the E&amp;P Company.
So in the SPM module we get to decide where to drill how to drill how to work over and how to further invest in to the field.
In the SPM module we will risk the value of our products and services in general and in some cases also risk cash in to the deal.
But predominantly it’s the value of the our products and services.
So that means if we create incremental production we will get paid and we will get paid also an upside view on what we have invested but if we don’t deliver incremental production then obviously that is our problem.
So its mainly the overall risk profile of the deal combined with the fact that we have complete management control of the operations within the SPM deal structure.
You mentioned terms of another 10 projects globally right now which suggests to me that we are still pretty early in the evolution of this concept.
Do you have an idea as to how big this market could be or just from a resource limitation within Schlumberger how big it could get over the next two or three years? Well it is a part of our business which we are looking to grow because it is highly accretive to our margins if you look at the portfolio we have.
At the same time it is resource intensive.
The whole sales cycle is quite long.
Also we are very careful in terms of evaluating the project that we get ourselves into.
So we are interested in growing it in our traditional SPM module.
But it is an area where we can afford to hurry slowly.
So there is nothing that we are looking to ramp dramatically.
Okay but is it fair to say that 10 projects could 20 in the next two to three years? Is that the trajectory that we seem to be on? Probably not 20.
If you look at reasonable size project we might look to add two maybe three a year.
I would say that’s probably the maximum at this stage.
Thank you.
We will go to the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Quick question on North American margins.
Given the magnitude of the drop in multiclient sales expected seasonally coupled with the Gulf of Mexico issues in Q1 I would have expected margins to be a little bit more poorly behaved and yet they were only flat to down.
Wanted comments for that Brazilian just quarter-on-quarter.
Well I think its still three things.
Canada had a reasonable quarter.
Decent activity there and the breakup happened towards the end of the quarter as we were planning.
Gulf of Mexico although there were delays in the deepwater operations also posted quite a strong quarter overall although it could have been better.
Then its all about the approach we take to U.S.
land.
Particularly in pressure pumping we are not receiving share.
We are looking to protect margins and we are focusing very much on utilization and only taking on contracts that meet a certain return for us.
So its how we manage U.S.
land and then we have decent performances in both Canada and the Gulf of Mexico although multiclient sales were down quite significantly sequentially.
With the reversal of the operational delays in Q1 in the Gulf of Mexico also taking into account breakup in Canada for the second quarter what should we expect for North American margins in Q2? Still flat to down or could it be better than that? Well I would lover for them to go up just to say that.
But you point at the main items here right.
So we would have continued pricing challenges on U.S.
land.
At the same time as we will have the Canada breakup those are the negative and then its just a matter of how well we can manage within the overall U.S.
land operations as well as the progress we will make further in the Gulf of Mexico.
I don’t expect a significant improvement in margins in Q2.
If we can hold them around where we are I would be quite content.
Okay and then a point of clarification.
With regard to your narrative on your SPM business model if I understood you correctly you basically take full operational control and that’s the distinction between that and IPM basically.
On the Forest arrangement if I read the press release correctly Forest will continue to be the operator is that correct? Yes.
Forest will continue to be the operator.
When I say operational control we don't take on operating ship in any of these deals but we have a much more of a say how we go about developing these fields so there's always some dialogue with the E&amp;P company who maintains operator ship but if you look at it from a well construction type of contraction in IPM where we are told where to drill and we just go by drilling the well there's much more of a dialogue around the entire development plan within an SPM project and we have a lot more of it say in how they go about development.
That's helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Paal so you noted and one of your peers mentioned earlier today and then you noted that you don't believe that the Saudi activity will lead to a pricing inflection in 2013.
It was also mentioned that Saudi activity could lead to higher activity by neighboring countries later this year and going into 2014 higher activity than already today.
Any thoughts there? Well like I said before the overall Middle East area is looking quite strong so you have Saudi Arabia you have Iraq and also you have Kuwait and then the UAE which are also quite strong in terms of year-over-year activity and how that business is progressing so don't get me wrong.
I would love to see an inflection in pricing in 2013.
It's just that I am not at the stage where I can promise it at this stage.
We will continue to cut pricing and to try to move things along because in our view there isn't a lot of spare capacity out in the international market at this stage.
It's just that to predict that inflection which we all have been waiting for quite a few years.
I am not ready to do that yet.
Fair enough.
And given that this work is gas work is oil as it was in last cycle how do you see the service intensity even though there is tight gas and unconventional so how do you see the service intensity of this growth in rig count versus what we saw in the prior cycle? Are you talking about Middle East? Yes and Saudi specifically.
Yes.
Well I think the service intensity in Saudi and also the neighboring countries there is quite strong both in gas as well as in liquids.
There's a lot more deviated again extended reach in horizontal wells both for gas and liquids so I think overall service intensity is strong and it requires high end technology and very solid operational performance which again thanks to our strength.
All right.
Then there is unrelated follow-up on the one Forest JV with Cameron.
Any further insights on when we'll have details on the structure? When the deal will close? And then has the team determined how long do you think it will take to develop your own subsea separation unit? Well in terms of when we are looking to close the deal we were hoping to do in Q1 but it's going to now slide into Q2 as you see.
Our goal will be try to close in June.
We're just getting the final regulatory approvals from various countries.
We have most of it sorted out by now but we are relatively confident we will get it closed in Q2.
At that stage we will then put the organization in place.
There has been some limited discussions with Cameron on how that is going to be so I think we should be ready to hit the floor running s soon as we get the deal closed during the quarter.
And as to when we will get a new technology to introduce and so forth I think it's a bit premature for me to comment on that at this stage.
Other than that we will have quite aggressive R&amp;D plans for the JV.
We have some significant objectives that we want to achieve but I think I'll hold on from commenting on that at this stage.
All right.
Fair enough.
I'll turn it over.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We'll go to line of Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just certainly a higher level question on your press release there you've mentioned that growth in North America oil production has been offset by other non-OPEC producers seeing declining production limits expect spare capacity to remain around current levels.
Could you elaborate a little bit on this statement try to put some numbers around it if you feel confident about that? Well if you look at spare capacity now I believe it's ticking around 4 million barrels right? So we expect it to be around this level in the near-term barring any major macro events.
If you look at the balance of supply and demand the overall demand growth projected for this year is about just short of 1% or 800 000 to 900 000 barrels a day.
Offsetting that demand growth is mainly the continued growth in North American production and we don’t expect any significant growth in the non-OPEC production outside of North America.
That leads to core in OPEC and more or less unchanged.
That is the main balancing that we are looking at this is stage which is similar to what we talked about in January.
In a historic context so would you say that this is a constructive backdrop or is this a backdrop which could lead to some other business? Well if you look at 4 million barrel of spare capacity on about 90 million barrels of production it is around 4% and it is still about 1 million barrels below where we stood prior to the Libya conflict right.
So I don’t think this is an excessive spare capacity.
I think its if anything probably relatively tight.
Very good.
Secondly you mentioned the ability to upsell technology.
We have all seen the headline numbers.
Let's use Brazil as an example.
So do you expect this fully to offset some of the pricing pressures on recent contract signings? So let's say Latin American margins do you expect to be able to hold those margins at this level? Well I cant guarantee it quarter to quarter but I would say that for all these large contracts that we have been talking about for the past year and not just in Latin America but globally we have overall plan in terms of how we bid for the basic technologies which are generally comparable to our competitors.
Then beyond that for these medium to long-term contracts we have a plan on what new technologies will be introduced and added to the contract base.
Based on these technologies which will bring significant value to our customers but also to us we are quite confident that we can make these contracts that were really quite competitively bid in to quite viable contracts for us over this time of the contract term.
So when we think about margins if you look at your North American margin very impressive level at the moment more or less in line with your international margins when do you think you will exit the year? With higher North American margins or a bit higher international margins relative to one another? It’s a good question.
If I was going to make a bet without really committing to it I would say I still expect our international margins will be higher than North America in terms of the exit of this year.
We will go to line of Scott Gruber with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Coming back to the motivation for the Forest deal.
You have the appetite for technology in the US onshore is always been low but has there been any degradation to that demand? Have the E&amp;P's as they move in to the harvest mode to the shales and now that conventional service pricing is lower has that actually diminished the need for technology in the U.S.? Is this the response to that? No I don’t think its going in that direction.
I think what you will find is that in the past we haven’t really had a significant focus on developing new and high-end technologies that had I would say a significant application in North America.
Now over the five years with the renewed focus we have on North America we have a little more in to these type of technologies and what you are looking for now is just to try to accelerate the penetration to get return on these investments.
So there is no I would say reversal of the technology uptake.
It is just that we have a much broader and I would say much more interesting technology portfolio with applications in North America and we are quite eager to get these technologies further into the marketplace.
Great and then turning back to the macro picture.
Paal you mentioned that the backdrop today remains constructive even with the a bit of declining crude price.
One of the top concerns we hear is how long can Schlumberger can tend to grow at something close to 10% in a world of flat crude prices? How do you think about the medium-term outlook for growth over the next the call it three years? If crude prices are flat can you still pose topline international growth that comes close to 10%? We are still confident that we can do that.
I think that there is obviously several ways that we are pursuing this.
We obviously are present in every market around the world so we have a kind of a very broad broad opportunity.
But one thing I think will be quite interesting from our side is that if you assume that crude prices are going to stay flat as you indicate then I think it's going to be a need for our customers to look at driving more costs out of the E&amp;P value chain and I will say integration which I talked about today has the potential to do that.
Also overall quality and efficiency of operations which and in many cases comes down to the size of the operation is also going to be key.
So I think we have hit on several I think unique enablers that will allow us to be a very interesting partner for the E&amp;P companies in terms of helping them drive overall costs out of their system and then basically and lot more activity for us and more hope for us.
Thank you.
We'll go to line of Jim Crandell with Cowen Securities.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Good morning.
Paal I know that Schlumberger is a company that of course pays a lot of attention to its market shares around the world in formation the valuation.
I was a little bit surprised to hear one of your two major competitors on their call this morning say that in LWD MWD they are the market leader now in revenues in both the Gulf of Mexico and Norway A would you agree with this? And B is this something that you have a plan to reverse? Well Jim there's nothing to reverse.
If there's anyone who is the leader in LWD in any place around the world that's Schlumberger.
I don't think I am really going to engage further into that question.
Okay.
I was surprised when I heard their response but anyway.
Secondly could you specifically talk about the Petrofac joint venture? And where you are in that and additional work that could be forthcoming there? Yes.
So we are still engaged with Petrofac in evaluating in SPM type opportunities around the world.
We are still actively in dialogue with them.
There's a number of prospects that we are pursuing.
The overall sales cycle for these projects is quite long and the project we are looking at with Petrofac is also whether it's a balance between what is required from the subservice which is our strength as well as what is required from the services which is obviously their strength right? But that whole corporation agreement is still very much intact and we are still engaged with them in pursuing global opportunities.
Okay.
Good.
Thank you.
Next question is from Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Could you please speak to well I guess the following issues that relates to the second quarter? So in the non-North American markets there's this traditional seasonal recovery.
And if I look at the last second quarter you had 9% sort of sequential revenue growth and 40% type of sequential incremental margins.
And I guess I am just curious whether or not there are some dynamics that happened in the first quarter in this year that might make a progression look different in the second quarter of this year.
For example the progress in SPM which might make the seasonal pickup a little less dramatic or Latin America that might be the case but if you could speak to something in that dynamic and give us some perspective on the second quarter non-Am that would be helpful.
Well in terms of Q2 consensus you know that we don't give guidance and looking at this chart we are doing that right? But I would just say that generally there's nothing dramatically different in our business today than what you saw a year ago.
We expect good seasonal improvement in our earnings per share in Q2.
As I mentioned several times during the quarter international looks solid and I think the main uncertainty continues to be the market evolution in the North America land and the main headwinds there are going to be continued pressure on U.S.
land in terms of pricing and the calendar breakup but overall we expect to see kind of a good seasonal improvement in earnings per share in Q2.
Fair enough.
Okay.
Thanks.
An unrelated follow-up please just happen to notice significant pickup in working capital in Q1 which looks like it is stem from a sizable reduction in payables.
Could you speak to that a little bit? What was driving that and perhaps give us some visibility on how cash might flow from working capital for the balance of the year? Well I will hand that to Simon.
So as you mentioned Q1 normally is a bit of a pressure on our working capital.
One of the reason is actually the year-end compensation for our employees that is related to incentives and bonuses that takes place in Q1 funding of pensions and others.
So this is a major deterioration that took place on the working capital.
As far as the rest of the year we expect to have a pretty good performance on collections as we call this during the year.
CapEx as I said is $3.9 billion.
We will continue to buy back to compensate for the increase or the stock reissue in relation to the stock-based compensation.
So now we think that going forward into the year the cash situation will improve.
Okay and then just to clarify I think I just heard you say your starting point philosophy on share repurchases to cover what will be issued in shares as comp? Correct and as we always said any excess cash over a period of time we will return it to our shareholders.
But the bottom level will be to compensate for creep in the number of shares.
yes.
Thank you.
next question is from Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> I guess you are in China.
You highlight China in one of your recent investor presentations.
Could you help us think about for one size in the market for you guys today the growth rate you guys are achieving.
You have given us a little snapshot on Iraq recently as well.
Any color you could provide on China would be very helpful.
Well China for us is one of our fastest growing gear markets.
We are seeing a lot more opportunity emerging here over the past one or two years.
The offshore business we have always been strong in and that continues to grow but we see a lot more opening up of the land business partly in terms of complex conventional land developments where we are working with our traditional Chinese customers but also as the shale is opening up to a lot of nontraditional customers.
There is significantly higher market potential for us even in that market.
So are we are quite I would say bullish in terms of the overall growth potential and the growth rate that we expect coming out of China.
That’s why we over the past 12 to 18 months have been trying to I would say improve or extend our position in the country and we continue to invest into the business here both in terms of capacity but also how we JV and partner with local players.
So overall China is way up there with the highest growth regions that we expect in the next couple of years.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> The other one Paal if I had was just around Venezuela.
The release and then you reiterate today discussed ramping up of activity could you just give us some color on this anything on order of magnitude or timing? Is that a late this year event? Then will there be any incremental disclosure around receivables here in the Q1 10-Q? We are not going to disclose anything further on receivables beyond what we did in January.
Our collections have improved in Venezuela during the quarter.
As I mentioned we have had a very good dialogue with Petrofac.
They are keeping it here as we are expecting to finalize this payment agreement in the near future.
We are basically ready to ramp up activity to meet the needs of Petrofac.
The magnitude of that we are still discussing.
They have a significant resource base in Venezuela.
They have the need for our products and services and when we get this payment agreement in place we are very much ready to support with that they need.
Next question is from Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Thank you.
Paal could you describe for us your current outlook for WesternGeco in terms of activity and also in terms of pricing? If you are seeing any change there? Yes if I first look at the Q1 in marine the Q1 most of the utilization improved sequentially.
So that was good news.
Going forward we are still quite I would say optimistic in terms of how the year is evolving.
In marine seismic we have now the majority of our capacity booked for Q2 and Q3.
In terms of pricing we are still operating at more or less the same pricing levels that we saw in 2012 which is about 10% to 15% higher than what we saw in 2011.
Right? So for the small remaining part of the capacity that to be filled up for Q2 and Q3 we will obviously continue to test pricing further but overall we are looking at strong utilization for the next couple of quarters.
Pricing hasn't moved significantly from where we were at last year but it's still looking quite good.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> In terms of new supply coming in over the next two to three years are you seeing any red flags any other signs of stability or you feel confident about the longer term or intermediate-term outlook given some of the capacity adds? Are you talking about marine seismic? Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> That's right.
Yes.
Well I am not being overly concerned about [annual] capacity at this stage.
There are new builds being planned that will enter into the market.
We have two new vessels under construction but these are generally high capacity vessels I think for the industry meaning 12 more streamers and generally these will likely replace vessels or six streamer vessels right? So I am not really overly concerned about overcapacity at this stage.
Our new build vessels remain schedule will get delivery of the two of them in 2014.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
Then just one finally on your deal with Forest what is your capital commitment in the coming years for development program there? I don't have the details about the capital commitments over the coming year.
I think we are going to have to get back to you with that but the overall deal is not very significant in terms of size right? I think like I said the main motivation behind the deal is to create a showroom of what we can do in terms of shale technology and shale workflows in the U.S.
So I think the overall headline the deal is getting versus the size of it and the impact in Schlumberger I think is sort of a little bit over dimension at this stage.
Yes.
And what we will contribute is generally going to be inclined in terms of the value of our products and services.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll go to line of Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Paal I want to ask you about the number of deepwater rigs being delivered in the balance of this year in 2014 is sizable something like 64 rigs if you exclude the rigs to be built in Brazil ultimately but in terms of bidding for work on those rigs in the pre-delivery stage how are you preserving your market share gaining.
How competitive is that bidding in your view? You are talking about the global deepwater rig market now? Yes the global deepwater rig market the rigs coming out of shipyards later this year and in '14? So on how we are maintaining share in that we have separate teams that are aiming at securing I would say contract than capacity on these rigs for the services that this is kind of relevant so a lot of it has to do with cementing obviously.
So we have teams dedicated that basically pursues the new build owners to make sure that we get our share of the market for whatever we can capture prior to these rigs are coming out in the market and where we enter into the traditional biding sequence.
Okay.
And I was also curious about the pricing dynamic here.
Is this super competitive? Are you pleased with the pricing levels you are achieving on all of these deepwater related contracts? Yes.
I think if you look at the overall performance of our deepwater operations both in terms of growth and in terms of market share in terms of margin it's all highly accretive to the overall business that we have so it really comes down to the kind of broad technology offering we have and the highly differentiated execution capabilities we have for this type of environment which is really what Schlumberger is all about.
So no I am quite pleased with how we are progressing in deepwater and it's a highly accretive part of our business.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you and our last question comes from Turner Holm with Rs Platou Markets.
Please go ahead.
Actually my question is partially answered but I just wanted to question on the seismic utilization.
You guys have been running at about 70% in Q4 and that lead to about 75% in Q1 from the data that we have.
First of all those numbers about ballpark correct.
So is that low utilization relative to your peer function of switching over tied to metrics? to tighter utilization.
I guess what I am getting at is would you expect utilization to improve in these low levels here as you move throughout the year? When combined that with price increases and isometrics (inaudible) could see seismic have a new (inaudible) impact from here? Well firstly I don’t think I would validate all your utilization numbers.
Our Q1 utilization is higher than what you have indicated.
Although in Q1 we did have a fair bit of transporting.
We had a few docking and also some permitting delays.
But overall the utilization in Q1 was reasonable.
It was higher than the number that you indicated.
In terms of isometrics it is still early days in terms of where we stand on isometrics.
We have one vessel fully converted to isometrics today and it started first survey in South Africa during the quarter.
We actually haven’t seen a downtime on the vessel there.
So our further plans for isometrics is that we will convert another vessel this year and a further two vessels in 2014.
So we have surveys planned for both our vessels this year.
the one that did the survey in South Africa is now shooting a survey up in the Barren Sea.
It will move to Canada after that.
Beyond that we also have a fair bit of North Sea for that lined up.
So we all take it as quite strong.
But I think it is also important that we get the full set of result analyzed together with our customers before we really start talking about what the pricing premium should be.
But the fact that there should be quite a decent pricing premium on these type of measurements there it is very clear..
So it is still early days but we are progressing I would say quite well and in line with our plan when it comes to isometrics.
Okay and just one quick related follow-up.
On the multiclient I guess we saw multiclient sales tick down to 175 in this quarter.
I believe first quarter last year you had about 215.
I now multiclient bounces around a bit.
But what can you say about 2013 relative to 2012 on the multiclients? Well at this stage we expect that there will be good progression in overall multiclient sales in 2013 over 2012.
These thing vary a bit from quarter to quarter.
Q1 was a little down sequentially but it was also as you indicate somewhat down from Q1 of last year.
but overall we have a very strong library.
I am quite convinced that the overall sales from our library in 2013 is going to be up from 2012.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call and Julie will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 A.M.
today through midnight May 19 2013.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 280257.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code 280257.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger earnings conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Malcolm Theobald Please go ahead.
Thank you Greg.
Good afternoon and good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited second quarter 2013 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from Paris where the Schlumberger Limited Board meeting took place yesterday.
Joining us on the call today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.15.
This is an increase of $0.18 sequentially and is $0.14 higher when compared to the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we completed the wind down of our operations in Iran and as a result we have now classified this business as a discontinued operations.
All prior period amounts have been restated.
As previously disclosed we completed the formation of our OneSubsea joint venture with Cameron prior to the end of the quarter.
We recognized $1 billion gain in connection with this transaction which equates to $0.77 in terms of EPS.
We also recorded $0.26 of charges relating to the impairment of drilling related equity investments.
From an operational perspective we had a very strong quarter.
Oilfield services second quarter revenue of $11.2 billion increased 5.8% sequentially pretax operating income increased 15.9% sequentially while the pretax operating margin improved 178 basis points to 20.4%.
Sequential highlights by product group were as follows.
Reservoir Characterization revenue of $3 billion increased 9.6% and pretax income grew by over 25%.
This resulted in margins improving by 380 basis points to 30.1%.
This growth was driven by very strong performance in both Wireline and WesternGeco combined with the seasonal rebound in SIS software sales and maintenance.
Drilling group revenue of $4.3 billion increased 4.4% and margins improved by 97 basis points to 18.7%.
These increases were largely attributable to the Drilling and Measurements and M-I SWACO on robust international activity.
Production group revenue of $3.9 billion increased 4.4% while the pretax income increased 12.6%.
This resulted in margin expansion of 116 basis points to 15.9%.
Growth was led by Well Services as a strong performance internationally and in US land more than compensation for the impact of the spring break-up in Canada.
Completions and one intervention were also significant contributors to the growth.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 23.3% in the second quarter compared to 23.8% in the previous quarter.
We continue to expect the effective tax rate for the full year of 2013 to be in the mid 20s hwoever this can vary on a quarterly basis due to the geographic mix of business.
Yesterday our board of directors approved the new $10 billion share repurchase program to be completed at the latest June 30 2018.
Our strong projected cash flow over the next five years allows us to increase the level of share buybacks while also maintaining enough flexibility to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities.
Let me take this opportunity to remind you how we manage our cash flow.
Our first priority is to reinvest into the business to drive growth.
We do this through CapEx and the investment we make in R&amp;D and future revenue streams.
From a dividend perspective over the past 10 years we have increased our dividend on average by 13% per year.
We will continue to review this on an annual basis with our board.
After that we will continue to be strategic when it comes to M&amp;A then the balance will be spent on stock buybacks.
For the first six months of this year we have generated $3.4 billion of cash flow from operations.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $5.6 billion as compared to $5.3 billion at the end of the first quarter.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $906 million of CapEx $600 million payment to Cameron for the OneSubsea transaction and $500 million of stock repurchases.
During the quarter we repurchased $6.84 million shares at an average price of $73.7.
CapEx is still expected to be approximately $3.9 billion as compared to the $4.7 billion we spent in 2012.
Now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our second quarter results were strong as international activity recorded significant progress and North American results benefitted from solid execution in land and increasing deployment of new technology in deepwater areas.
Sequentially revenue was up 6%.
Margins expanded by 178 basis points which together yielded a 16% growth in operating income.
Compared to the same quarter last year operating income was up 12%.
The results were driven by solid activity levels in all our main markets as well market share gains for a number of our product lines on the back of new technology sales and our strong execution and integration capabilities.
I am pleased with the overall results and even more so with the consistency in our business performance throughout the company seen for instance in the margin levels of our four main operating areas which are all at or above 20%.
The focus on the quality and efficiency of our execution is also reflected in our incremental margins which were north of 50% sequentially as well as the cash flow from operations which was $2.3 billion driven by both improving asset utilization and reduction in the use of working capital.
The strength in our international business was again evident in the second quarter with year-over-year revenue growth of 12% and margin expansion of 173 basis points to reach 22% making up over 70% of the operating income of the quarter.
Activity and customer plans confirmed our expectations for the year in all our major growth markets while revenue per rig continued to steadily increase as a function of new technology sales increased integration related activity and a favorable business mix.
Our ability to consistently execute remains critical in the international market and is a driver for both our market share gains and superior margin performance.
While we continue to replace competition on contracts where they are unable to deliver we are becoming more and more selective in terms of where and when we do so.
In Latin America the revenue was flat sequentially despite a 2% drop in rig count while margins increased 107 basis points to 20.6%.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 3% while margin expanded 153 basis points.
Our Latin America business showed commendable resiliency this quarter by maintaining laser focus on execution technology sales and cost control overcoming both activity headwinds and new contract mobilizations and startups.
In Mexico with the third big round for production intensive contracts was concluded where we ended up bidding for only one of the six blocks.
Drilling activity remained soft in the North and East regions of the country following the budget shifts announced in the first quarter.
In Venezuela we signed a new agreement with PDVSA and we are now in the process of ramping up our activity in the country while payments are on plan.
Elsewhere in Latin America the Shushufindi SCM project in Ecuador is progressing well with production levels well above the agreed targets.
While in Argentina we continue to be active in reservoir studies and well side operations relating to Vaca Muerta shale development.
In Brazil we continued to mobilize resources during the quarter for the new contract signed with Petrobras although overall activity levels were down sequentially.
We have several new IPM projects starting in the second half of the year however the overall activity level is expected to remain flat to slightly down for the rest of the year.
Overall our outlook for Latin America remains unchanged with 2013 being a transition year in terms of activity for the region and we remain comfortable with our position our plans as well as the actions we have taken to handle the somewhat challenging business environment.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue grew 11% sequentially on a 3% rig count increase while margins increased 178 basis points to 24.6%.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 28% while margins were up by 330 basis points.
In the Middle East growth was again spearheaded by Saudi Arabia and Iraq but our United Arab Emirates and Oman geo markets also posted strong results.
Common to all there markets is that we have gained noticeable share in the past quarters.
Our business in Saudi Arabia continues to grow through a diverse portfolio of projects on both land and offshore and driven by both drilling and rigless activity.
In Iraq we have on the back on an unmatched execution track record built up a significant business that is now starting to yield excellent results.
Activity levels continue to increase both in the North and in the South of the country and with our business footprint and contract portfolio we have clear leadership in what is shaping up to be a very interesting market for us.
Asia also contributed strongly to the area results by delivering a record revenue in four geo markets driven by robust market share and new technology sales.
China led the Asia growth on a rebound from seasonally low land drilling and simulation activity in the previous quarter and also helped by an upswing in offshore activities.
We also posted very strong in Australia driven by continued growth in unconventional activity on land as well as offshore and deepwater activity in the Northwest and Papa New Guinea.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue was up 10% sequentially and margins increased 275 basis points.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 7% while margins increased 33 basis points.
As expected Russia led the growth in the second quarter as the high volume land as well as the offshore business entered the most active phase of the calendar year.
EMP investments and activity levels in the country remained very strong in terms of offshore and land activity as well as for exploration and development and Russia will be one of our fastest growing markets in 2013.
In the North Sea WesternGeco saw strong activity as the seismic acquisition season started while the offshore drilling rig count stayed more or less flat.
In North Africa rig activity in Nigeria started to rebound following the security incident in the first quarter while rig activity in Libya remained flat due to delays and ongoing security challenges.
In Sub-Saharan Africa activity in the Gulf of Guinea as well as in East Africa was robust.
On the other hand activity in Angola was subdued in the second quarter due to project delays.
However the activity outlook for the second half of the year remained strong driven by both exploration and development projects.
In North America revenue was up 2% sequentially while margins increased 65 basis points to reach 19.7%.
On a year-over-year basis revenues were flat while margins were down 83 basis.
In the North America land market the rig count dropped 14% sequentially driven by the Canada breakup and also impacted by the June flooding in Alberta.
While the downwards pricing trend in U.S.
land continued in the areas of drilling simulation and wireline although this slowed in pace during the quarter.
However continued strong drilling efficiency resulting in solid growth in horizontal wells and frac stages completed partly offset these headwinds.
Looking at our land performance we continue to execute very well in our product lines and we also see a gradual improvement in the uptake of our new shale technologies throughout the characterization drilling and production groups.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico the deepwater rig count is now 17% above pre-Macondo levels and on a year-over-year basis activity has increased by 30%.
The call for reliable and efficient service delivery in addition to risk mitigation technologies continues in this growing market and is yielding very strong result for a number of a higher margin and higher market share product lines.
In addition to the Dual Coil fleet operating in the Gulf of Mexico WesternGeco also started isometrics operation in Eastern Canada during the quarter.
Turning next to technology.
During the quarter we closed the OneSubsea joint venture with Cameron and the JC is now operational.
Cameron with its long history of innovation and firsts in the subsea market is an industry leader in design capability manufacturing excellence and successful installations.
In addition to this Schlumberger brings a deep understanding of the reservoir as well as industry-leading well completions subsea processing and integration capabilities.
Through the combination of these strengths OneSubsea will offer best-in-class subsea solutions optimizing the complete subsea production system and helping our customers improve production and recovery from their subsea development.
In other areas we saw growing customer interest in a number of our new or recently commercialized technologies.
In Wireline the Saturn 3D fluid sampling probe is enjoying one of the most rapidly growing deployments of new formation of our technology for a number of years.
Its ability to acquire reliable pressures and high quality samples in difficult reservoirs has been impressive.
Reservoir Characterization the SIS Studio Manager software which went from concept to market release in only eight months is enabling and increasing number of customer geoscientists to access data collaborate with peers and share best practices within [partout] workflows.
Within the Drilling Group new and innovative drillbit technologies recorded significant progress.
Drillbits equipped with Stinger conical diamond elements that add stability and improved drilling speed have now made more than 650 runs in North America alone since their introduction in the first quarter and have achieved an average improvement of 15% in rates of penetration.
In the second quarter we commercialized the ONYX 360 rotating cutters that we believe will lead to dramatic improvements in different lengths in abrasive formations.
Lastly at the Production Group joint deployment of LIVE slickline with ACTive coiled-tubing services demonstrated clear benefits in the efficiency and effectiveness of our well intervention services both on land and offshore and units were active in the quarter in both Latin America and the Middle East.
Let's now turn to the macro environment where the business outlook for 2013 has remained largely unchanged since April as expansion in the global economy remained soft.
In summary the U.S.
has shown little or no impact of the financial sequester.
The Eurozone is still in a two-year recession although the risk of any concrete to leave the monitor union appears reduced.
And recent Chinese data have been mixed with the outlook for long and progressive soft landing remaining unchanged.
The oil market picture is also largely unchanged.
The market is more comfortably supplied than it was in 2012 but spare capacity remains below pre- Libya conflict levels.
The year-on-year increase in North American supply is enough to face both increasing global demand and the production declined in other non-OPEC producing countries.
The call on OPEC remains unchanged and is in line with the group's production target of 30 million barrels per day.
Overall the market continues to support Brent prices over $100 per barrel.
For natural gas the apparent rebalancing of the U.S.
market is still fragile as gas production remained steady and as the power sector has already switched back to coal in some regions on higher gas prices.
Internationally Asian LME prices eased on weaker Chinese demand trends but remained close to oil parity.
While in Europe regional supply declined from the North Sea and very cold weather supported highest spot prices.
Despite the overall slow progress in the economic environment the latest releases of the third-party E&amp;P spending surveys so offer durations of upstream CapEx estimates making 2013 the fourth consecutive year of double-digit worldwide gains driven by the international and offshore investments notably in the Middle East and Asia regions while the North American spending remained flat to slightly up.
These estimates are further confirmed by the recon outlook that shows double-digit growth in a number of both shallow water and deepwater rigs active worldwide and a 6% growth in the international land rig count in 2013.
In this market we continue to focus on [key] control which is the quality efficiency and integration aspects of our operational execution.
Through this focus which permeates our entire organization we continue to demonstrate our ability to deliver tangible results today as can be seen by our revenue market share gains unmatched operating margins strong cash flow and consistent double-digit growth in earnings per share.
We also remain confident in the outlook of the industry in our strategic position within the markets we operate in an in our ability to further improve all aspects of our performance going forward which remains the overarching objective of the entire Schlumberger team.
That concludes my remarks.
I will now hand the call back to Malcolm.
Thank you Paal.
Greg we will now open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon where you are.
A question Paal for you on the North American market.
You continue to show some differential performance on the margin front despite the fact that and show improvement in terms of activity revenue and margins despite an anemic rate progression and a lot of discussion here about the well count and so on.
So I was just wondering if you can us a little bit of additional color as to what product lines that you see will be benefitting from the shift in the type of drilling that’s taking place in the U.S.
marketplace and what kind technologies that Schlumberger has that will continue to enable Schlumberger to share differential margin performance going forward? Well I think if you look at what enables to show differentiated margins I think its several things.
Firstly our ability to execute very well on land whether that is on drilling or on pressure pumping but also the fact that we have a very well balanced portfolio in between drilling and production related activities on land as well as in between land and offshore.
So we honestly have a very strong offshore business both rig related as well as seismic but what we have done in recent years is starting off in 2001 was to restructure the business on land which in previous years I would say had underperformed and through that restructuring I think we are performing on par with the best if not better in most of our product lines.
So if you look at the trends of drilling in the North America land market now going towards more and more horizontal wells predominantly focused on liquids all our drilling segments obviously benefit from that.
At the same time our pressure pumping business through new technology deployments such as HiWAY are also benefiting from this.
We also introducing to the market our own multistage completion technology which has been a gap in our portfolio in recent years which also should enjoy quite significant growth going forward.
So I think it’s a good balance between land and offshore good balance between drilling and production on land and overall a very strong focus on execution.
And as a follow-up on that with respect to the overall margin performance of Schlumberger especially in the international marketplace are you getting any sense that we are starting to see a shift in the industry that will demonstrate Schlumberger's relative product and services strength whether its deepwater or otherwise? Do you think whether that kind of an inflection point in the marketplace or we are going to see these strengths of Schlumberger? Well if you look at our margin performance in international over the past couple of years I think we have been highly differentiated continuously right.
So I think we have done well in our contracts strategy what contracts we are prepared to take on and the ones that we see more as must wins.
We have continuously introduced new technology and we are also leveraging very well I think our overall size and infrastructure.
So to your question whether its an inflection we don’t see any imminent inflection in big pricing at this stage.
We are seeing a continuous uptick in another pricing indicator that we track which is revenue per rig.
That is continuing to grow and going upwards.
That obviously helps our profitability.
What drives that up is new technology sales.
It is our integration capabilities where we do more and more services and products on each rig and it is also down to the nature of the work that we take on.
Typically take on the more complex and more intense work because it is more difficult to do.
If you perform well in that that also is quite accretive to margins.
So bid pricing we still don’t see any imminent inflection but we continue to drive revenue per rig upwards through new technology through integration and there's very solid execution.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James West from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
You mentioned in your prepared comments the third party surveys which of course you are well aware we do a very large survey.
And what we saw when we reran the numbers here in May and in early June was that international spending was creeping up about 300 basis points to 400 basis points.
So curious if you are seeing the same things from your customers who you are having the same post conversation that we are with.
Then secondarily which markets do you agree with what we showed as the biggest growth areas of kind of Middle East eastern hemisphere in general and which seem like markets that are Schlumberger's backyard essentially.
Do you see those as the best growth markets for this year? Okay.
So to the first part of the question in terms of the spend yes if you look at the average of the spend surveys we look at several.
I think for international it was about 9% early in the year and it was generally all of them revised upwards lately to average about 13%.
So we generally agree with that upwards revision.
We see continued strong activity levels in the international market and those spend surveys are also I would say confirmed from the rig count outlook and also the rigless outlook in terms of activity that we have the second half of the year.
So yes we are in agreement that that upward revision seems to be reasonable.
Then second part of your question was? On the specific regions where the spending has increased? Yes.
So we highlighted going into the year five major growth regions right? So we said that international would grow north of 10% this year.
We would see growth in Latin America but due to the kind of transitional nature both in Mexico and Brazil as we indicated earlier in the year we weren't expecting a lot of growth coming out in Latin America which is being confirmed and we said that the main growth markets would be Sub-Saharan Africa Russia Middle East in particular Saudi and Iraq China and Australia.
Those were the five main drivers.
So basically and ECA and MEA were the main drivers of growth in international market.
Okay.
Then just a follow-up from me the market share gains that you also highlighted in your prepared remarks are those happening in those markets that are going the most rapidly? I think in general that's fair.
I would say in particular in MEA we are gaining quite good market share.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks Paal.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Paal just a real quick [rig count] about six month behind schedule.
Can you concur with that and does that have an impact on kind of your outlook for next 12 months? Well if you look at our view on the [rig count] we are still expecting the total rig count both drilling and workover to reach about 170 rigs by the end of 2013 or early 2014 so the rig count evolution in Q2 was flattish but it is all about when new rigs arrive and how they are commissioned and so forth but we are still expecting that we will reach the number that we have indicated earlier roughly by the end of the year or early 2014.
Okay.
Then I just wanted to make sure you touched on that you can't expect bids from us.
I was just curious what was about those contracts that kept away? Was it location work was it the contract structure or you guys just holding out for another set of tenders? Well let me just give you a little bit of background on our view on these production incentive contracts.
So we've been very clear about our interest in production incentive contracts but we also stress the importance of picking the right project with the right terms.
So we evaluated all the 60s offered in the third in Mexico and based on the very detailed technical and commercially valuations we did we only fund one field interesting.
Now we've been at this field at the price that will give us the returns that we require and that is really factoring in the additional risks associated with these contract terms.
The winner bid at a fee close to zero fee per barrel and basically we are not interested in doing that so we did not win it.
Okay.
One last quick question on some of the buyback you announced today.
Could you just kind of give us a sense on your philosophy on the pace of that buyback? You talked about the cash flow you are generating over next couple of years.
Should we expect the majority of that to go towards share repurchase? I heard on some type of broke in terms of the deal but it seems like you have an opportunity here to kind of accelerate that over the next all it I don’t know three or four quarters here.
Am I right in my assessment? Okay.
Well thanks David.
As I mentioned in my remark that the buyback is basically a balancing number for us when it comes to utilization of the cash flow.
You are right in your assumption of the cash flow.
That's why we said latest by 2018.
So as the cash flow proved to be significantly better than what we have factored in the five year scenario in making the $10 billion program we will accelerate it.
We did this in the past.
We look at our excess cash over a period of time taking into consideration the growth that we are anticipating in terms CapEx and as I said investment in future revenue stream activity be it multi client or production incentive contracts and any balance will go into the buyback.
Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey from ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to ask a couple of questions on Mexico if I could.
The first is that's obviously a big market for you guys.
Are you there? Yes.
I am sorry.
Obviously a big market for you guys pretty-diverse.
Pemex still has pretty ambitious growth expectations in next few years.
It obviously pulled back activity in the North.
I wanted to get your thoughts.
They have the lot of tenders coming up and tenders in process and it would look like you could see pretty strong growth in that market next year.
In your view is there any reason for skepticism that Pemex may be wouldn't follow through or is there else going on down there that would give you some caution in terms of the growth opportunities down in Mexico? No I don't see any reason for that.
I do not think Pemex has signaled that there is a number of bids coming out for the remaining part of this year and probably into next year.
We are going to actively compete for all of that work and we continue to see Mexico as a very interesting market for us.
Okay all right.
Then next question just on North America.
Obviously very strong margin results factoring in Canada and everything else going on in that market.
With the continued growth in the Gulf of Mexico and let's just say that the U.S.
landmark it kind of continues at this methodical pace with very little pricing traction.
How should we think about Schlumberger's margins in terms of we would assume you would get some more market share gains you would benefit from the very strong Gulf of Mexico and a rebounding Canada? Can you help us think about maybe the near term and the long term margins for the Schlumberger in the North America market? Well I would say that over the past year when there has been significant struggles in the pressure pumping business I think we have shown commendable margin resilience and again as I alluded to earlier it is down to how we execute on land as well as the balance between land and offshore.
So in terms of what the margin progression is going to be the main uncertainty is still what is going to happen in terms of pricing on land.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks we still saw pricing pressure both in the drilling stimulation and Wireline product lines in the second quarter but that was slowing somewhat in pace.
So assuming that the pricing is reasonably behaved and drilling efficiency continues to be the main activity driver going forward I would expect us to show continued margin resilience and obviously we are looking to drive up margins in any operating areas.
I can't promise you exactly how that’s going to progress but we have a lot of focus on margins in every part of our business and we will continue to look drive it up in North America.
All right great.
Thank you Paal.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Paal I was wondering if you could sort of reconcile on the one hand for double-digit E&amp;P capital spending growth not so much for this year but on a structural basis perhaps going forward internationally and reconcile the tension between on the one hand the increasing need on part of the customer base to reinvest simply to keep production flat and on the other hand increasingly challenged cash flows in a range bound oil pricing burn and rising cost environment.
What do you think ultimately happens over the next several years assuming range bound oil prices? Does the rate of E&amp;P capital spending growth decelerate or what happens? Well I think we are still optimistic about the further need to increase overall E&amp;P spending going forward right? So we saw the upward revision for the spend survey this year.
And at this stage although it's early to conclude our next year the customers need to go through their planning process but we are still optimistic about the initial projections for 2014.
The resilience in the spend as you say is linked to partly the working intensity linked to fighting decline but also due to the overall size and complexity of the projects that are undertaking in particular in the international market.
So I think for the company for E&amp;P companies that potentially are or will be facing cash flow issues we expect them to be likely to shift more of the spend within the E&amp;P spend from more infrastructure related projects towards more well CapEx.
So that obviously will be good for our business because that's sort of where we make most of our money on right? So I think the general shift from infrastructure towards CapEx is where I expect to happen for those E&amp;P companies that are facing cash flow issues.
Okay.
Then secondly switching gears.
At the reservoir level I'm curious as to what your views are with regard to the outlook for U.S.
oil production growth I mean clearly it's been extremely vigorous.
We are up about $1 million barrels per day on a leading edge basis that's 15% to 20% year-over-year yet I think there is a healthy debate here with regard to the prospects going forward the prospect of the Bakken growth flattening out and filling their production growths vacuum with other basins perhaps not as easy as some contend.
Where do you fall out with regard to the domestic production outlook going forward stronger for longer or decelerating or too early to make a case either way? It's a good question.
First of all I would say that the overall production increases that we have seen on our North America liquids they have been very impressive.
We always maintained that it's too early to extrapolate the early production trends in terms of how great they see.
Also I think it's too early to conclude on whether the trends we are seeing on the Bakken is something that is also sustainable right? For the early production trends I think we need more information to look at the production of these wells over a longer period of time and I think we also we need to look at the initial rates or the inflow performance for the wells that the operators are started to drill outside of the fairway right? As they step out on the acreage so I am going to have to go for option three of your multiple choice there.
I think it's too early to say both while we can extrapolate the initial overall trend from North America or whether there is any significant impact or the recent trend that we see in the Bakken.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gruber from Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Paal I found you comment about becoming more selective regarding when and where you chose you peers interesting.
Is this a reflection of capacity constraints desires to avoid problematic contracts some of those? Why is the stance shifting? Well I think obviously if a customer calls upon us and wants us generally we will do utmost to serve them.
At the same time we also have to make sure that we prioritize putting our equipment into the customers that have initially selected us and if we are going to go on replace the competitor on or their contracts we obviously need a significant pricing increase from the initial rates that our competitors took the work on for right? So and there's also other strategic considerations as to where do we put our capacity while it's a priority in terms of the customer mix this well so can't really going into the details of how we select what to do.
I would just say that we will always look to serve our customers as best as we can.
But at the same time we are continuing to look at how we optimize our business mix and how we maximize the return from the resources that we have up in operations.
Okay.
Then an unrelated follow-up.
Can you discuss the efforts internally to improve the working capital management? If you look over the last six months you guys have held the line here on receivables and other current assets but I assume that you are not completely satisfied in the working capital at this point.
Then if you have year end targets that you could share with us that would be greatly appreciated? Well maybe I will say a little bit about what I think the investment community call self help initiatives right.
So first of all in Schlumberger we believe that in order to maintain and extend to our market leading position we always need to do better tomorrow than what we did today.
So company wide programs addressing execution improvements they are not really sporadic or episodic with us.
They are a way of life.
So we have in recent years or in the recent year put more focus on working capital on cash generation.
In the past before we had more focus on more cost and resource management to be trying to balance the focus on both cost and resource management with cash management.
So we have specific programs running focused on capital efficiency around receivables and also around inventory management and we build it into our business plans and we also build it into the incentives of the entire management team.
So this is really how we try to put focus on it and what we put focus on in Schlumberger will generally do quite well.
I would like to add a bit to what Paal said.
The last couple of years since the acquisition of Smith you probably noticed that the working capital as percentage of our sales has gone up a bit.
This was all planned.
As a result of expanding certain segments or product lines of Smith internationally which are more inventory intensive segments or products line we had to increase inventory to meet the expansion that we have done internationally.
One of the main reasons for acquiring Smith and integrating it with the rest of Schlumberger is also to use the footprint of Schlumberger which meant that some of those segments that were mainly U.S.
focused we took them overseas and therefore an increase in inventory.
We have managed to do this now and going forward we will not have to increase it at the same pace that we have done before.
Great I appreciate the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
First of all congrats on your decision to return a greater part of cash flow to shareholders.
I think there is a very clear difference at the moment in this evaluation of companies who do that and those who don't in this slower growth environment that they are in.
First of all what were the biggest technologies that drove your share gains? In terms of specific technologies let me elevate it and maybe focus in on the product lines.
So I would still say we have gained more share in wireline and drilling and measurements.
Those are the kind of spearheading segment for these efforts right.
So there is number of new technologies that we have introduced in both these product lines over the past year or two and the uptake of them is good.
What we also find now as you know we have restructured our engineering manufacturing into same organization about five years ago and this is really starting to pay dividends now because the new technology that comes out it's performing much better than the initial technologies that came out five or ten years ago.
There were lot more teething problems which we are basically now avoiding.
So the new technology which is commercialized within its first year is actually now growing significantly faster than what it did may be five or ten years ago.
So I would say wireline and drilling and measurements are still the ones again that are gaining the most share.
So it is then fair to say that this is largely driven by offshore? No I think it's both on land and offshore.
Okay and a follow-up question would be what market share changes are you seeing in the offshore market? One of your largest competitors continuously make claims that they are gaining share across all kind of (inaudible) technologies? Well I don't know who they are gaining share from because it isn’t us.
So I think we are in the offshore market we obviously already have a quite a high share but we reference Gulf of Mexico in some of these discussions and we continue to gain share in the Gulf of Mexico and in several of our high end product lines.
Okay.
Just finally how far away do you think from being a new pricing cycle in North America pressure pumping? Well I would say there is still significant overcapacity horsepower in the sitting on the sides today so I don't see that happening in 2013 at least.
I think we are still going to have overcapacity as we exit this year.
Finally what are some of technologies that are reducing the pressure pumping in tentatively of shale oil and gas in North America? What technologies do that? Yes.
Well HiWAY is obviously one of them.
We use significantly [less] and also generally less water in the operations that we do with HiWAY.
The other way of reducing or lowering the intensity of these operations is to use much more of the subsurface approach prior to actually designing the jobs right? So having a much better understanding of the subsurface will allow you to design the completion of the well and the amount of horsepower water and pump use by be more selective in which stages you frac and also using more sophisticated frac fluids like HiWAY.
Are you seeing a change in attitude there with the shale oil gain becoming more and more of a large company gain? Not a dramatic change but I would say we have.
We are starting to get several key customers that we are collaborating much closer with than what we've done in the past and where we engage all the way from characterization to drilling and production and taking a much more sophisticated approach to how we go about working with them on their developments right? So it's still relatively slow but through some of the contracts we won over the past 12 months to 18 months we have established as part of those contracts a very strong technical collaboration agreements which are also benefiting technology penetration.
So on Forest Oil the contract being in Eagle Ford how would you characterize that in the context of just that? Well I can't really comment on that.
Forest will release their results I think in a couple of weeks.
We'd need to refer you to them.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good afternoon guys.
I wanted to just follow up on the North American onshore market and a little bit on the Forest Oil as well as Spark.
Let me ask the questions just from the context of shift in business model in North America.
I think both with Forest as well as Spark you've tried to introduce a new model to the U.S.
land market and I was just wondering now as you've been out marketing concepts like that for a while what the perception has been and what you think the uptake and penetration rate might look like? On Spark we are seeing a reasonable uptake on it.
Nothing dramatic which we weren't expecting either.
It's mainly focused on customers that are have vertically integrated.
They have their own horsepower with very limited capabilities in terms of pumping more sophisticated fluid systems so we continue to do Spark-related activity but it isn't a significant part of our business which weren't really expecting either but it's progressed reasonably well and we are happy with the performance from this.
We are mainly doing Spark in North America but we are also doing Spark in China for some of the frac operations there.
The other part of your question in terms of the Forest Oil type of deal initially as we said when we closed the Forest deal our main motivation for doing that type of a deal was actually to get a display window for our shale technology capabilities so we haven't really been actively out promoting SPM or production incentive type of contracts in North America beyond trying to get that deal done so we could demonstrate our capabilities for the technologies that we have developed.
So we know other progress or we haven't really even been pushing that model beyond that one deal we struck.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Paal two questions one I wanted to follow up on just how things are progressing on the SPM side.
In the first quarter you mentioned you had 10 projects.
Goal was that two to three a year.
I didn't see anything in the press release with regards to another announcement there.
Perhaps if you could just update us on your thoughts? And maybe perhaps your size for us on a revenue basis annually? What SPM is going to contributing to the top-line for Schlumberger? Yes you are correct.
We didn't sign any SPM projects in the second quarter.
Our goal of adding two to three projects a year basically stands firm.
But again as I mentioned on my comments on the Mexico bid round we will only sign the project that we believe are right for us.
This is all about portfolio management.
It is about picking the right projects the right fields with the right terms and we have very stringent return criterias in terms of what we will engage in.
So our goal is two to three deal.
If we can get the right ones we will do it and if we can't find the right ones we won't do it.
In terms of the impact on the business it's still relatively a small part of our overall revenue stream but by picking the right project it is a highly accretive part of our revenue stream and we will continue to focus in on maintaining it as highly accretive.
Right.
Your view has been that these projects are accretive to margins and essentially every geo market in which you have rolled it out.
Is that correct? That is correct.
Okay great.
Well my second question was just a follow up on North America margins specifically as it relates to Geco which was called out in the press release but you didn't you specify perhaps I missed it in earlier comments whether or not Geco really was being driven in the Gulf more by the Marine side of the business or whether we saw multiclient or maybe a combination of both? Then maybe just address Gulf of Mexico Geco as we think about the balance of '13? Well in the Gulf in terms of ongoing operations we have one Dual Coil fleet operating.
It continues to operate in the Central Gulf.
It has got a good backlog of things to do there on the multiclient site acquisition.
We have an ongoing multiclient late sales business where we had some revenue progression which is seasonal basically from Q1 to Q2.
We don't break up what that revenue progression was in a multiclient.
You can see what the total is.
The total for Q2 worldwide was $250 million up from $175 million in Q1.
So a part of that was North America but I would say as the general comment on the multiclient performance in North America in Q2 it was below our expectations.
We were expecting more sales to multiclient than what we actually realized.
In addition to the multiclient business in terms of late sales and acquisition in the Gulf of Mexico we also started of the third-party survey offshore Eastern Canada and this is with isometrics.
So those are basically the WesternGeco business in North America.
All right.
That sounds like that continues in second half of the year should be accretive to overall North America margins? They should.
Okay.
Thanks Paal for the time.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys or good afternoon and it hasn't been said.
So I will say congratulations on a great quarter.
Very impressive of you and the team.
Thank you.
Thank you.
On Mexico Paal I appreciate the color on the production of incentive contracts and the bidding there but your thoughts on I believe the next round of awards will be IPM potentially as much I have heard as $8 billion to $10 billion in contracts.
You view that as the better and more attractive opportunity in the region and then along with that have you had conversations with Pemex on the potential timing and is it multi-year for Mexico to open up and the opportunities there? So what we know about the bids coming out is that there are a series of bids.
So probably there would be a single service bids there would be IPM well construction bids and there will probably be more production incentive type of bids coming out as well over the next couple of quarters.
So as I said earlier we are very interested in the Mexican market.
It is going to be very highly competitive.
It has always been highly competitive but it's about as I said before being able to bid strategically trying to pick up the right contracts and the right opportunities and having a plan for how you would create value for Pemex and at the same time create value for Schlumberger as we engage in these contracts right.
So I gave you a quick summary of our view on the third run of the FDM contracts and we will continue to evaluate every opportunity for gaining more work in Mexico and will engage in it with a view to make returns for the Schlumberger shareholders.
All right.
Then on the U.S.
market thoughts on the pace of activities for Q3 and Q4 are you seeing based on your conversations with the customers still steadily higher in Q3 as far as activity and Q4 the seasonal decline or are we going to run into the spent budgets that we did last year? Well whether Q4 is going to see the same as last year I think it's just too early to say.
Obviously as WTI ticking up a little bit over the past month or so could be a positive preventing that from happening but I still think it's too early to say what will happen in Q4.
Our overview on the second half of the year U.S.
land is I think rig count is going to remain relatively flattish but drilling efficiency is going to be the main activity driver again generating reasonable growth in stage count sequentially.
Looking at Canada we expect the H2 rig count at this stage to come in or the recovery in the H2 rig count to come in lower than 2012.
While the stage can be expect to be more or less flat with last year.
Then again continued strong activity in terms of offshore Gulf of Mexico both shales and deepwater.
Then finally you mentioned Russia being one of your strongest geo markets in 2013 is that in part driven by the Eurasia deal or is it outside of that project? Well the Eurasia deal is part of our business and it's important part of our business in Russia but it is only part of it.
We have significant other activities both on land and offshore both in Sakhalin in the Caspian in the Barents in the Arctic so we are very well diversified in terms of both customers and regions that we operate in Russia and that's why I think we manage to sustain very high growth rates.
Your next question comes from the line Jim Crandell from Cohen.
Please go ahead.
Paal one of your competitors was indicating in the marine seismic business relative softness in bidding activity for the fall winter season.
What are you seeing in the fall winter season relative to the spring summer season and how does pricing look for that season right now? For the marine market we maintain our positive outlook which we have basically conveyed over the past couple of quarters right? The way we see its supply and demand appears to be relatively well balanced.
In terms of bookings for Q3 we are basically already fully booked and also Q4 in terms of backlog is filling up quite well.
So activity wise things are looking quite good for us.
In terms of pricing in the second quarter we didn't see any significant further traction in terms of basic bid pricing but we also track another pricing indicator which is revenue per streamer and our revenue per streamer was up about 10% sequentially and that's mainly at the backend of new technology and the type of service we conduct and also some seasonality effect.
That's basically where we stand.
Good.
That's helpful.
And one follow-up question about WesternGeco when you used to break it out this would of course be obvious but could you give some indication where margins are relative to let's say the oil service average at WesternGeco and I am just trying to handle on how much margin leverage there was there going forward? We are not breaking out about any individual product line is doing in terms of margins.
I can't really comment on that but given where pricing stands and given the very significant new technology portfolio we have and just putting into operation both on land in terms of processing as well as marine we obviously see margin upside potential for WesternGeco.
And we have time for one further question today.
That question comes from the line of Jeff Tillery from Tudor Pickering.
Please go ahead.
Pickering</strong> One of my questions I have is around the U.S.
land business.
You mentioned improved well service and pressure pumping utilization several times in the release.
What are your thoughts around bringing some of the never deployed equipment in to the market given where your margins are? How do you see that as an opportunity in the second half of the year? So we will look at bringing equipment in from what we have apart when we can get the utilization that we require for the overall group and at this stage we are not looking to bring anything back in that we have parked and I don't expect that to happen in 2013.
Pickering</strong> Great thank you.
Then my last question is just around the reservoir characterization business.
With the significant margins increase there I mean obviously multiclient helps but if I look back historically there doesn't really tends to be a follow-up in multiclient sales in the third and fourth quarter relative to the second quarter.
So any reason we should think about margins perhaps stepping backwards in the Reservoir Characterization business in the second half of the year? No nothing fundamental.
This is a huge business and there are mixed effects depending on what region grows and there is exploration and development type of mixes even in characterization but overall I expect the Characterization Group to continue to post very strong margins.
Pickering</strong> All right thank you guys very much.
Thank you.
Okay on behalf of Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Greg will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 AM Central Time today through August 19.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at anytime by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 291800.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 291800.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
For the conference all the participant lines are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions; instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that being said I’ll turn the conference now over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Malcolm Theobald.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited third quarter 2013 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from New York City and joining us on the call today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I’d like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We will welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Third quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.29.
This is the highest earnings per share for a quarter in the history of Schlumberger.
It represents an increase of $0.14 sequentially and it is $0.25 higher when compared to the same quarter last year.
As a reminder last quarter we completed the wind down of our operations in Iran and as a result this business was classified as a discontinued operation.
All the prior period amounts have been restated.
Third quarter revenue of $11.6 billion increased 3.8% sequentially with 7% growth in North America and 3% International.
As you will recall from a financial reporting standpoint we do not consolidate the OneSubsea joint venture.
As such this was the first quarter we did not record any revenue from the subsea business that we transferred to the venture.
Excluding this effect revenue grew by over 5%.
Oilfield Services pretax operating income increased 9.6% sequentially while the pretax operating margins improved 114 basis points to 21.5%.
Sequential highlights by product group were as follows.
Reservoir Characterization revenue of $3.2 billion increased 7.3% and pretax income grew by just over 8%.
This resulted in margins improving to 30.4%.
This growth was driven by very strong international performances in both Wireline and Testing Services most notably in Russia.
Improved vessel utilization at WesternGeco also contributed to the growth.
Drilling Group revenue of $4.4 billion increased 2.8% and margin improved by 154 basis points to 20.3%.
These increases were largely attributable to the Drilling and Measurements and M-I SWACO on robust offshore activity.
Production Group revenue of $4 billion increased 2.5% while pretax income increased 13.1%.
This resulted in margin expansion of 165 basis points to 17.6%.
Excluding the effects of the transfer of our subsea business to OneSubsea Production Group revenue grew by over 6%.
This growth was led by Well Services on a strong recovery following the seasonal spring breakup in Canada last quarter.
Increased activity for Completion and Artificial Lift as well as continued increasing profitability in SPM were also significant contributors to the growth.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 22.7% in the third quarter compared to 23.3% in the previous quarter reflecting the business mix between North America and International.
The year-to-date effective tax rate for 2013 is 23.2%.
From a cash flow perspective we have generated approximately $6 billion of cash flow from operation during the first nine months of this year.
This strong cash generation has allowed us to continue to invest in growth opportunities while at the same time returning over $2.7 billion of cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases during this period.
Net debt at the end of third quarter was $5.6 billion.
This is unchanged from the end of Q2 despite the fact that we spent $833 million on our stock buyback program during Q3.
During the quarter we spent $953 million on CapEx and repurchased 10.1 million shares at an average price of $82.61.
Total year for 2013 And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our third quarter results continued to show good progress driven by solid performance in both the International and North American markets.
Our strong focus on integration quality and efficiency remains core to our execution and I am pleased with the response we are seeing from our organization in addition to the impact the efforts are having on our results.
Sequentially revenue grew by 4% excluding our subsea business which in Q3 is included in the OneSubsea JV while margins expanded by 114 basis points to yield a 10% growth in pretax operating income.
Compared to the same quarter last year pretax operating income was up 20%.
New technology sales coupled with further market share gains contributed strongly to the quarter’s results and this is also reflected in our revenue per rig indicator which improved again sequentially.
The size and breadth of our operations and the quality of our execution allowed us to once again show widespread consistency in terms of financial performance with all four operating areas posting operating margins north of 20%.
In addition and for the second quarter in a row we posted sequential incremental margins over 50% while free cash flow progressed from the already solid levels of Q2 to reach $1.5 billion driven by improving asset utilization and tight management of working capital.
Our International business continued to strengthen in the third quarter with year-over-year revenue growth of 12% and margin expansion of 134 basis points to reach 23%.
Sequential revenue growth was 3% dampened by operational delays in some regions but proactive management and disciplined execution allowed us to generate 73% incremental margins on this growth.
In spite of the operational delays experienced in Q3 we have not seen any structural changes to customer plans and we continue to maintain a positive outlook for our International business.
In terms of pricing we are not seeing any signs of an inflection point.
However the current operating environment with highly competitive pricing on basic services and slow but steady activity growth where we can get a premium for new technology and for the quality of our execution suits us very well as it plays to our strengths and allows us to continue to generate superior financial results.
In Latin America revenue was up 1% sequentially while margins were flat at 20.6%.
The sequential results were driven by strong performance throughout the area with the exception of Mexico and Brazil where continuing challenges tampered growth.
While we see the current headwinds reducing somewhat in 2014 we expect the situation for our overall business in the region to remain more or less unchanged in the fourth quarter.
On a year-over-year basis and in spite of the ongoing challenges revenues were up 4% while margins expanded 273 basis points.
In Mexico revenue was down sequentially driven by the completion of contracts in the north and lower product sales offshore which were only partly offset by the ramp up of activity in the south.
In spite of the challenges we had faced in Mexico this year we remain optimistic on the longer-term outlook for this market and we are actively positioning ourselves for the future opportunities.
In Brazil revenue was also lower sequentially due to the startup of new contracts with Petrobras as well as due to lower activity for both independent and international customers.
Based on the latest customer plans we expect our activity to remain flat in the country in the fourth quarter.
Elsewhere in Latin America our business is progressing well driven by Ecuador where the Shushufindi project continues to perform better than plan by Argentina where we are actively involved in the Vaca Muerta shale work and by Venezuela where we are still ramping up activity following the signing of the payment agreement in the second quarter.
In the Middle Eastern Asia results were particularly strong with sequential revenue growth of 5% while margins increased 151 basis points to 26%.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 25% while margins were up by 330 basis points.
In the Middle East sequential growth was again solid in Saudi Arabia and Iraq while the highest growth rate was seen in the United Arab Emirates and Qatar where we also have very strong market positions.
We are currently in the process of transferring in additional people and equipment to Saudi Arabia to keep pace with the additional work that we are taking on while the – while in the United Arab Emirates we have just completed a large mobilization linked to a recent major contract win.
Asia also posted strong sequential results headed up by China Indonesia and Malaysia also showed strong growth in the third quarter driven by offshore exploration and development work while activity in Australia was flat sequentially.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue was up 2% sequentially and margins increased 189 basis points.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 7% while margins were up 83% basis points.
Russia was again a major driver for our performance posting a record quarter with strong sequential activity growth as well as excellent incremental margins.
Our wide footprint in the region provides a solid foundation for our business which is essential for addressing such a large and diverse market.
These sequential results were driven by Russia land and Sakhalin on high exploration and development drilling and going forward we continue to see Russia as one of our fastest-growing markets.
In the North Sea sequential growth was driven by strong WesternGeco seismic activity and solid drilling activity in Norway while our UK business was impacted by summer rig maintenance.
In North Africa we had another challenging quarter in terms of top line growth due to operational delays in Algeria and continued security challenges and lower rig activity in Libya.
In Sub-Saharan Africa activity was mixed as a result of project delays linked to the influx of new rigs to the region.
Still the overall activity outlook remains robust as the surge of rigs into the market continues and as customers firm up exploration programs in frontier countries.
In North America we had a very strong quarter with revenue up 7% sequentially to set an all time high and with margins expanding by 57 basis points to reach 20.3%.
On a year-over-year basis revenues were up 9% and margins were up 176 basis points.
In the land market the U.S.
rig count remained flat sequentially while the seasonal recovery in Canada was more or less on par with last year.
The downwards pricing pressure continued in most product lines in the third quarter including pressure pumping although at a slowing rate.
Looking at our land performance I am very pleased with the quality and efficiency of our execution as well as with the team work within our organization which is a key driver for our results.
We have come a long way since we started the transformation of our North America land business three years ago to the point that we are now setting the pace in North America land just as we do in the rest of the world in terms of both new technology deployment as well as financial results.
As an illustration of this we activated four additional hydraulic fracturing fleets in U.S.
land during the third quarter following a number of recent contract wins.
As a result our third quarter stage count increased by 7% sequentially.
Looking at the North America offshore markets we also posted solid sequential growth driven by new technology sales and the quality of our execution.
Offshore Eastern Canada we successfully completed an isometric survey in early September and activity continued to be strong in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico with minimal impacts from the hurricane season so far this year.
Let’s then turn to technology where I will give you an update on our ongoing progress in the shale markets in North America.
Over the past 12 months we have continued to actively promote our shale reservoir workflow to the market with a strong focus on optimizing both well locations as well as completion design.
As part of these efforts we have introduced a data consortium business model where multiple customers with neighboring acreage can contribute reservoir and production data and then co-fund field and well studies as well as the construction of 3D reservoir models for the shale plays.
In return each customer receives all the findings and conclusions from the consortium studies in addition to the reservoir model covering their acreage.
We have so far conducted three such studies with very interesting findings and conclusions and these studies together with our technologies and workflows has helped to significantly improve the well performance for the participating customers.
One major conclusion we have confirmed is that in order to optimize production recovery and costs of the shale developments there is a clear need to shift focus from the level of a stage down to the level of the individual perforation clusters that make up a stage.
The reason for this is that the studies including production logs show that in traditional completions on average between 30% and 70% of the perforation clusters do not contribute to production.
This means that we are not effectively addressing the available shale reservoir throughout the entire length of a stage and that we generally over-fracture a subset of the perforation clusters.
Based on these findings we are actively working on a number of technologies that target this opportunity.
During the third quarter we started field testing one of these new technologies a novel solids-based diversion technology.
The diversion pill is added to the fracturing fluid at various times during the pumping of a stage and this effectively seals off the clusters that are currently taking frac fluid.
This allows us to access the perforation clusters that have yet to be properly fractured.
This new diversion technology has two primary applications.
first in improving production and recovery by ensuring that more perforation clusters are accessed within a traditional stage; and second in lowering completion costs by increasing the length of a stage thereby reducing the number of frac plugs installed and subsequently milled in the well.
Diversion technologies are not new to the fracturing market.
they have been around in the industry for a while in various forms however so far without showing tangible or consistent results.
The novelty of our approach is in the robust design and engineering of the diversion pill and the fact that field test results so far are showing very promising results.
We plan to continue our field testing of this technology in the coming quarters and in addition we will also evaluate the technology as a potential way to refracture existing wells that are underperforming in terms of production.
In parallel with our growing new technology penetration of the North America shale market we have been gaining market share in hydraulic fracturing in recent quarters at what we consider acceptable incremental margins.
These market share gains led us to activate the four additional frac fleets I referred to earlier in my comments.
In terms of the equipment the four new fleets were mobilized from pumps made available from our existing fleets that are in operation due to steadily improving asset utilization and hence represent a zero net capacity addition to our field operations.
This significant achievement is a result of ongoing R&amp;D work focused on improving the reliability extending the maintenance intervals and reducing the maintenance costs of our hydraulic fracturing fleet.
The strategy driving these R&amp;D efforts has been to improve the design of the consumable part of our pump rather than building a new pump that requires additional capital investment.
These innovations have already helped to improve reliability and reduce the maintenance costs of our asset base.
Currently only a subset of our fleet has been upgraded but we expect that through our normal maintenance schedule we will have the entire fleet upgraded by the end of 2014.
This upgrade will be fully covered through our ongoing operating costs and involves no capital investments.
Let’s now turn to the macroenvironment where we in recent months have seen a number of positive signs in the world economy.
The Eurozone is now out of its longest recession on record the U.S.
continues to show favorable trends in spite of the fiscal debate and the most recent data from China suggests a lower risk of a significant slowdown.
Overall these factors are offsetting lower growth expectations in some of the emerging economies.
These trends are currently expected to continue in 2014 translating into both a higher GDP growth rate and increasing global oil demand compared to 2013.
On the supply side spare capacity including the shut-in production in Libya remains stable at around 4.5 million barrels per day.
And even with an unlikely increase of Iranian crude exports in 2014 spare capacity will likely remain in the range of 5 million barrels per day in the coming year.
At this stage we therefore expect continued support for Brent crude prices around $100 per barrel going into 2014.
However the makeup of the risk premium is likely to shift somewhat with lower supply uncertainty and potentially lower geopolitical risk offset by more resilient demand and lower macroeconomic concerns.
The international gas market is expected to remain stable supported by strong demand in Asia while in the U.S.
resilient production levels and strong competition with coal indicates that our recovery in dry gas drilling activity continues to be pushed out in time.
In terms of E&amp;P spend the second half of this year is unfolding in line with expectations.
Visibility of 2014 is still limited as our customers are in their planning process.
but at this stage we foresee a continuation of the overall trend seen in 2013 which should yield another year of steady activity growth.
In this environment our entire organization continues to focus on both new technology sales and the quality and efficiency of our execution.
In parallel with our ongoing operations we are actively pursuing our internal transformation programs focused on leveraging the size of our operations and the breadth of our offering and with a clear goal of further elevating our performance in terms of top line growth margin expansion and cash generation.
That concludes my remarks.
I will now hand the call back to Malcolm.
Thank you Paal.
John we’ll now open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) We do ask in your time if you can please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
First we go to James West with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Hey.
Good morning Paal.
Good morning James.
Inc.</strong> Paal clearly good progress in your strong momentum in the international markets I know you touched on kind of how the year should end up here in case some broad guidance reports.
I was hoping you could dig in a little bit further on 2014 and just give us your view of we had obviously – we’re going to have strong growth this year probably low double-digit growth internationally on E&amp;P spending do you think that’s going to be kind of steady more the same is it going to accelerate or is there potential for some slowdown in the E&amp;P spending? Well as I mentioned James in my prepared remarks I think it’s still early to comment on specific numbers on what the international growth is going to be next year but as I said the – from where we stand today I think a continuation of the trends that we’ve seen this year is our most likely bet.
That means reasonable growth in the spend levels but that the market dynamics that we play in will continue to see steady activity growth but competitive basic pricing.
But as along as we can get a premium for new technology and the quality of our execution we are comfortable that we can continue to generate solid incremental margins without a inflection in the pricing.
Inc.</strong> Understood okay and then just a quick follow-up from me.
On the international markets you mentioned Russia is one that looks to be good for 2014.
What other kind of key large markets are you looking at to drive this growth? Well I would probably name the same five that as I’ve been talking about throughout this year.
So that’s basically… Inc.</strong> Sure.
…Russia Sub-Saharan Africa Middle East with particular focus on both Saudi Arabia and Iraq but UAE we have also gained significant share in recent quarters and I see the UAE also to be a strong growth driver in 2014 and then in addition China and Australia as we talked about again this year.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks Paal.
Thank you.
And next we go to line of Kurt Hallead with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks [indiscernible] Paal.
So Paal do you think it takes a while longer for the supply demand lines to cross with respect to frac? Well I can only speak for us but I would say that we still have upside in terms of the operational efficiency of how we conduct our business which we show with the activation or basically creation of four additional fleets out of the existing asset base that is currently in operation.
So yes at least for us I would say that in general it would take us most likely longer to consume the overcapacity we have unless we gain significant share to the point that we choose to activate some other fleets that we have in the idle asset program as well.
But as of now we are continuing to focus in on the operational efficiencies of the assets we have in operation and if we can get decent incremental margins on additional work that we potentially take on we will primarily look to create fleets out of assets currently in operation before we look to the idle asset program.
So from your standpoint then if I were to – and if I understand what you’re saying correctly that irrespective of the excess capacity in a marketplace that may exist or may continue to exist given your internal drivers you feel very confident about your ability to get margin improvement? Well in the pressure pumping business not dramatically right because pricing is actually still going down but as long as we can offset that with new technology and operational efficiency there is potential to get some improvement in margins in pressure pumping but obviously what helps our margin as well is a strong offshore business and also a good drilling and characterization business on land where the pricing pressures have been less than what we’ve seen in the pressure pumping.
Okay great.
And then my follow-up question would be in the context of the level of optimism that you expressed in your commentaries here on the call and in the written commentary how do you feel about the progression from an earning standpoint.
I think the Street has tended to get out in front of itself a little bit too much and put you guys in a tough position where you had to hog numbers down how do you feel about the earnings progression as it sits right now as you head into 2013 and even more importantly into 2014? Well if we started looking at Q4 first as you know we do not give guidance but I would say a couple of things about the fourth quarter.
Firstly; that the fundamentals of our business remains intact going into Q4 but there are some seasonal effects that I think everyone should factor in.
On the negative side of these effects is that we are likely to or we will see seasonal slowdown in some of our highest growth markets this year such as Russia and China which will have an impact.
We’ll see the normal seasonal slowdown in Marine Seismic and we also expect to see some impact from the holiday season in North America.
While on the positive side we have the year-end product sales which will offset some of this.
But overall if I look where the current consensus for Q4 is now I would say it’s about right.
Now looking into 2014 obviously very early to look at specific EPS targets other than that; again the fundamentals of our business remain strong and our overall target is going to be to continue to deliver double-digit growth in earnings per share and that will be for the fourth year in a row.
Okay great.
Paal I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Anderson with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So Paal you’ve been highlighting the new efficiency and reliability efforts that you’ve been implementing throughout the organization.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how this has already attributed to margin improvement specifically as I kind of look at Europe Africa CIS margins.
Over last two years you’ve gone from mid-teens to low 20s now and Middle East margins kind of took a step up.
Could you talk a little bit about how much of that was due to these efficiency efforts that you have in place and how much is left in there do you think over the next couple of years? Well I would say that the progression we have shown in these operating areas over the past year is partly down to very strong management focus on managing both working capital and costs in general so that on basic activity growth without pricing we can generate quite significant incremental margins.
So our transformation programs are looking at some structural changes to how we are set up and how we conduct and run our business.
I would say that there is not a significant part of these structural changes that have taken place so far.
So a lot of what we are doing now is just managing with particular focus on driving both cash flow and incremental margins and that overtime we will see more of the impact of these structural changes as part of the transformation.
So there is little structural changes impact on our results as of yet.
So in other words even without pricing you should still see margins continue to improve in eastern hemisphere? Well that's what we're going to work towards yes.
Right.
Okay.
On the U.S.
side I was just curious you talked a lot about the technology and particularly on the perforation clusters.
I think in the release you had talked about Whiting.
I was just curious if you could kind of compare and contrast the E&amp;Ps versus the majors in the resource plays that you are working in.
It seems to us like the E&amp;Ps are a lot closer towards the true development phase whereas the majors are a little bit further behind.
I’m just curious in terms of technology that you are talking about.
Are we talking more of your conservation of the E&amp;P side or are the majors kind of sitting back watching and then will implement this later? How do you see this playing out? Well I think generally we talked to all of our customers about these things.
So I don't see a huge difference between what the independents do and what the IOCs do in this market space right.
I mean it's all about the acreage the challenges and the main focus and priorities that they have.
So we are openly discussing the whole range of capabilities and new ideas and innovations that we have with all our customers and I can't really separate I would say who is doing what.
I think they are all eager to look at what can be done better and the way they are implementing obviously varies depending on what their priorities are.
Okay.
Thank you.
And next we go to Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
</strong> Paal for a second and your internal transformation.
So I was struck by the fact sort of breadth and sweep of the internal transformation with regard to structural change which you’re trying to prosecute and this is the second consecutive quarter that you have generated incremental margins in excess of 50% and yet you say thus far that has very little to do with the internal transformation that you are trying prosecute? In general yes.
These – we always are doing pilots we are trying things out at a small scale in various places around the world there has not been significant structural changes as to how we operate our international business.
Obviously in North America we started our transformation about three years ago so a significant part of these structural changes have already taken place there but in the international business no there has not been any significant impact of structural changes yet.
Okay and I think you mentioned that one of your objectives along with these internal transformational initiatives was to get back to prior cycle consolidated operating margins which I think for something like 26% to 27% thereabouts.
You are 20% today on a consolidated basis.
Over what timeframe should we expect that evolution to take place roughly? But I’m not going to give you a timeframe here.
I mean we have a horizon of these transformation objectives of plus minus five years.
Exactly when we’re going to hit or if we’re going to hit this targets is too early to say but we set out quite an ambitious target and that is to get back to previous cycle operating margins and I’m still optimistic and relatively confident that we are going to get there.
Okay and last one from me.
Recently Total came out at its Analyst Day and announced a fairly significant reduction in capital spending over the next two years.
And we’ve sort of talked about this before I mean the IOCs in deepwater NOCs are cash flow constrained and it tend on the one hand an opportunity rich on the other hand.
So two questions in that particular regard; one the outlook for seismic and two the outlook for deepwater capital spending in terms of rate of change going forward? Well that’s a lot of questions wrapped into one.
But I’ll – let us start up with the seismic so maybe I’d say a little bit about our seismic results in Q3 and then on the outlook and then we can go on to the next part of your question right.
But Q3 results gross were solid multi-client was down a bit about 9% sequentially which was in line with our expectations.
In marine we had a good quarter as expected fully booked good pricing from the new technology but really no further traction on basic pricing and also on land we had a very good quarter.
We have restructured our land business over the past year focusing now entirely on Unique deployed in Middle East and North Africa and we are now generating very solid operating margins on land which is as long time since we’ve done.
Now in terms of the outlook for seismic as you can see from our disclosure our backlog is now at $856 million which is down 12% year-over-year but this backlogging includes all four parts of our business; the marine the land the data processing and the multi-client.
So actually the main driver for the year-over-year growth in the backlog is actually land and that’s basically due to the fact that we have downsized our business and focusing more narrowly on Unique and Middle East and North Africa.
So the marine backlog was slightly up year-over-year but the visibility on Q1 Q2 is lower than what we had at the same stage last year.
It doesn’t mean that there are no surveys out there but our customers are now in their planning cycle and they have been reluctant to make early commitment as to these surveys that they have on the table.
So I would say that we basically expect to gain further visibility on marine seismic activity during the fourth quarter.
So there is a bit of uncertainty over that as of now but I can’t really conclude what that’s going to mean for next year.
So overall the outlook for seismic for data processing land and multi-client looks solid with some lower visibility on marine.
Now in terms of deepwater there is – we’re still quite I would say bullish and optimistic on deepwater.
There are a number of new rigs coming into the market in Q4 and also going into 2014 and that’s going to grow – that’s going to drive the deepwater spend in 2014.
So we’re still optimistic on deepwater.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is from Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
And thanks for that.
Paal I wonder whether you could elaborate a little bit more on what you said on the efficiencies in North America pressure pumping market.
Your pitch sounded a little bit increased productivity from the well and reducing the number of stages needed sounded pretty much like the picture on introduction of highway a little while back.
Is it something more than highway gaining foothold? Yes I think highway is one technology that obviously has applications in the market.
As I’ve been saying over the past year or so we continue to work on other technologies as well.
So there is – while highway increases conductivity in the fractures that we create this new technology I talked about today the diversion technology has a different objective which is basically to ensure that we access all the perforation clusters along the horizontal section which the industry basically today does not do.
So it’s another technology which in conjunction or in parallel with highway can help to drive production and reduce costs.
Okay.
thanks for clarifying.
Also on Framo well did you account for anything at all this quarter or is it the one quarter delay on how you report the equity income? Ole Simon here.
We reported on one-month lag but it is – we didn’t report anything during this quarter from Framo.
So… Okay.
So that would have added a couple of cents.
Quarter-to-quarter it’s basically in Q2 we have Framo and in the third quarter it is part of the venture and it will be reported by the OneSubsea as they consolidate in Cameron.
Okay.
What did you say Ole? No that – that’s clear.
Thanks for clarifying.
Our next question is from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Morning.
On the North America market clearly your strength in technology and execution have led to very impressive efficiencies and you noted the deployment of additional frac crews in the U.S.
Do you think – on existing equipment and not using capital which I think is very interesting do you think you will be able to continue this in 2014 where in essence you are adding additional frac crews into the market without adding any and or on-stacking any capacity or adding any capital? Yes we don’t plan to add any capital in 2014 based on where we stand now.
So if we – it’s all going to be a function of the amount of works that we will win and the first priority will be to try to address that work through the equipment we already have deployed.
and beyond that we are prepared to activate assets from the idle asset program if we cannot address the work with the assets already in operation.
but I think there is still upside in terms of the efficiency and utilization of the assets we already have in operation.
Great fair enough and then as a follow-up to that clearly you are seeing significant efficiency gains through execution on the pressure pumping side.
Are there other product lines outside of pressure pumping that are particularly apps to be able to drive additional product efficiencies through execution or are there specific regions that you think you could see more of it as you go into 2014 internationally? Well internationally we continue to drive efficiency through other operations right.
There is no one item that I would single out.
I think every product line that we have all 15 of them have specific programs and targets where they drive both the efficiency of our workforce as well as the utilization of our assets in all aspects of our operations.
So that's a key part of what you see in terms of the incremental margins that we are generating in the international market.
Great.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Paal I just had one question as it relates to your longer term outlook on Brazil.
I know you hadn't always felt like this would be kind of a transition year in the contrary and you remarked 4Q you see activity flat versus third quarter which was down.
Can you just give us your more longer term thoughts on Brazil as a whole and how we should expect that unfolding for Schlumberger here next year? Yes I would say that our view on 2014 overall in Brazil is that it’s going to be another challenging year.
And it's mainly down to the activity levels that we see at this stage which is relatively flat from where we stand now.
That's a function of obviously of what Petrobras is planning to do but also there is some impact in this in lower activity projected for both the Brazilian independents as well as on the IOCs in Brazil in 2014.
2015 is likely to be higher when the exploration work linked to the last license round is likely to kick in but the majority of the activity in Brazil next year for us is going to be centered around Petrobras who are not looking to significantly grow activity at least from what we can see at this stage.
Okay.
And for you you feel like you are pretty well balanced in terms of service and equipment capacity in Brazil? Yes.
We are we well set up in Brazil.
We have a strong focus on both quality and efficiency and also introduction of new technology for these long-term contracts.
So I’m comfortable with our position and our set up in Brazil it is challenging but we are executing well.
Okay.
And that was it from me.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to follow-up Paal on the transformation program and in particular ask you about some of the metrics we can be looking at over the next five years.
We tend to focus on top line growth and incremental margins and obviously the margins should improve and you’ve given some good guidance there.
But if I think about capital efficiency can you give us some sense as to where you think ratios such as reinvestment rates CapEx to revenue asset turnover some of the key utilization metrics that might better reflect the doubling of asset utilization and some of the other elements of the program? Yes I mean I would reiterate the main indicators that I gave you during my talk in this conference in Q3.
We are aiming at doubling asset utilization which by itself means that we should be able to reduce the CapEx relative to activity in terms of growth going forward.
So I’m not going to give you a specific CapEx as a percentage of revenue other than that we reduce CapEx in 2013 while we were still growing and my initial I would say indication for 2014 would be flat to slightly down on CapEx and that is assuming that we are still going to grow in 2014.
So the focus on asset utilization should help us reduce CapEx relative to growth going forward.
Okay.
And then one other point on the financial focus areas you mentioned cross training of the workforce particularly in remote areas.
I'm wondering what that means in terms of new recruitment and thinking about training of – cross training or existing employees as appose to the recruitment program university program et cetera and overall headcount growth? Right.
So we are not looking in the near-term to change significantly the level of recruiting because this all cross training and ensuring that we got proper competencies for the people that we do cross train is going to take a little bit of time.
So in the near-term there is no change no significant change to the level of recruiting that we are planning to do.
Okay.
Thanks Paal.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Morning.
Inc.</strong> I guess Paal in your comments you’ve spoken optimistically bullishly about deepwater development I understand that and we are looking at the rigs coming in and perhaps thinking similarly.
I guess I'm curious if you have pause related to a couple of the events that seem to be at least percolating I guess of anecdotally which is in the Gulf of Mexico a bit of swapping out of new in place of older rigs even if they're still deepwater even if they're still BP.
And there perhaps in West Africa and Angola and Nigeria it seems like it's a bit of a backlog in terms of getting some of those rigs signed and under contract.
So I guess I’m curious for your thoughts about that.
And I imagine you're calibrating that into your comments but I guess I'm curious if that gives you pause if there is an element where you are a little less encouraged perhaps because of those kinds of developments? Well I’m aware that some of the new arrivals that are coming into the market in 2014 still do not have contracts.
But based on what we are hearing from the drilling contractors they appear confident that these rigs are going to get contracts by the time they arrive.
To the other point that you are making yes maybe some of the older generation rigs will be replaced by the newer generation.
But either way we have a positive view on the market.
There were significant growth in deepwater drilling activity in 2011 and we expect the continuation on that trend into 2014.
Inc.</strong> Fair enough.
Okay.
An unrelated question you mentioned in you’re – the written commentary about Statoil a couple of nice multi-year contracts I guess on the fluid side as well as cementing.
I think that there are one or if not more of those contracts still outstanding.
I wonder if you could speak to us about the lay of the land there if you expect there are some awards that might still come and if you can at all calibrate if the implications for you given the fact that you've won the ones that you've announced? You’re talking about Statoil Norway? Inc.</strong> Yes.
Yes I'm not aware of any major outstanding contracts beyond the ones that we have – that's already been awarded earlier this year as well as the ones that we are referencing now.
But I would say overall our position in Norway and our position with Statoil is strong from where we see it and we're well positioned there.
Inc.</strong> Very good okay thanks.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Robin Shoemaker with Citi Investment Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
So Paal could you give us idea now of what percentage of your fracturing stages are employing the leading edge technologies such as Highway and this recent innovation that you mentioned on the diversion of perforation clusters.
I mean what kind of percentage are we talking about here of total stages fracked? So we haven't disclosed what percentage of stages are done with highway.
The only thing I would say is that we have seen continuous growth in Highway stages throughout this year and the year-over-year growth is very significant as well.
So we continue to penetrate the market on highway.
But we haven't been disclosing what percentage of our own stages we are doing highway on.
And on the other technology I referenced this is the technology that is in field test.
So it is very limited what the deployment is and it's not yet commercialized.
So I would say that this is something that we are trying out.
There is still a fair bit of field testing done before we are potentially going to commercialize it.
But I wanted to share with you this technology because it is interesting and the early field test results are showing great promise.
Okay.
And just staying on that theme you had mentioned in some of your earlier kind of outlines of the evolution of highway and other fracking technologies that you could eventually come to a point where you might not be necessarily providing the fracturing fleets themselves but more providing technology for the fracking operations.
Is there any – how far have we advanced towards that possible goal and is it in the foreseeable future? What you are referencing is what we call this Spark model this is basically where we provide the fracturing fluid the engineering the blending while we have a third-party providing the horsepower.
So we have deployed this business model with a number of customers who are vertically integrated in North America but the overall business volume is I would say is not significant but it's continued to grow this year from where it was last year when we introduced it.
And similarly we have also deployed this business model for part of our operations in China.
I see okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We will go to Waqar Syed with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Thank you very much.
Paal just following upon highway are there any particular basins in the North America where highway has had the best penetration and could you outline which ones are those? Yes.
I would say the basin where we have had the most success and where the penetration is the deepest is in the Eagle Ford.
So we have a significant number of wells and stages down there over the past couple of years and also I think a fair bit of data indicating the results that highway can bring both in terms of higher production and recovery and lower cost in terms of pumping less propane.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Now is it something to do with the geology of the basin or the structure of the formation or this technology is applicable in or effective in every basin? Well generally we believe its applicable in every basin I think what you find is that there are two main applications of highway.
One is to increase conductivity so you thereby increase production and recovery.
And the other one is that you reduce cost because in general we pump about 40% less [propant] per job which is a cost saving.
So what we found that is that in Eagle Ford we have both a significant production recovery increase together with the cost savings.
While the production increases we have not seen the same level of production increases in some of the other basins which is partly down to the geology as you reference it right.
But in general we have not seen – we've always seen I would say a flat or higher production and we generally always see lower costs.
So it's just a matter of the technology uptake taking a bit of time when you look at a large market like North America land.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Sure.
And then just on in terms of your efficiency improvements how they are having an impact on the margins could you quantify for us what the margin impact has been in North America because of these efforts.
And if you didn't have those efforts where the margins would have been? Well I can't really give you a number on that.
I mean the efficiency improvements going all the way back three years to when we started restructuring the land business is obviously a key part of the performance that we continue to post quarter-after-quarter.
But at the same time we have a very strong offshore business both in Gulf of Mexico and Eastern Canada and we also have a very strong business in Alaska.
So it’s a combination of everything where we needed to improve the most going back three years was in North America land and there has been a significant improvement there.
But at the same time we have continued to progress on our offshore and high-end business as well.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Paal geographically and product lines your incrementals are through the roof and that's fabulous.
Where geographically and what product lines typically generate the highest incrementals? Well I think if you are talk about international market I think we had great results basically in all regions I would say takeaway Latin America at this stage in terms of incrementals right.
We managed to keep margins flat in Latin America in a very challenging business environment and mainly driven by the headwinds or challenges in Brazil and Mexico while the business in the other countries in Latin America progressed very well.
So the incremental margins were driven by ECA and the Middle East and the Far East.
In terms of product lines obviously characterization continues to do well.
I mean their incremental margins were not as high this quarter but they have been progressing very well year-over-year and so far this year.
But both drilling and production continues to do very well.
So I can't really single out one specific product line internationally other than that all of them are doing very well and together they come together extremely well.
Okay.
My follow-up if I could is Brazil has been a difficult year for everybody this year and it maybe next year.
What percentage of your Latin American revenues generally come from Brazil these days with the contract wins you have? We haven't disclosed that.
So I’m not going to...
Is it your biggest market in Latin America? It’s not our biggest market in Latin America.
Okay thank you very much.
And we’ll go to Holm Turner with RS Platou Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi guys.
Just a question on the operational delays that you had in this quarter.
It sounds like much of that came in offshore Africa I was just curious if you could give us a bit more color on that.
Was the delayed in new builds coming out of the yards or was it more on the operator side? and related to that do you think you can get most of that work back in 4Q and if so maybe see a bit stronger sequential progression that you would typically expect seasonally? Well I think the Q2 operational delays was really the sum of all the things you mentioned.
Some of the rigs delayed coming from the yard then you've got to commission them and get them started off and then it's having everything ready from the customer side to start operations.
Right.
So no one thing impacting it.
But there was a significant planned influx of rigs and there were delays with several aspects of it which is not uncommon for these types of markets.
In terms of Q4 there will be some improvement in Q4 but I think it's going to go into Q1 Q2 before everything is ironed out.
Yes.
Okay alright.
And just to change gears a little bit.
I was just wondering if you could comment on the growth in the Arctic market.
There is a lot of things going on there you have Exxon Rosneft kicking off a drilling campaign in the Kara Sea next year there is increasing activity in the Norwegian side of the barrens and talk of doing some work on the Russian side and of course there is Cairn and Greenland and also some Alaska work.
So just curious if you can talk about the opportunity in the Arctic in terms of service intensity and sort of your expectation for how quickly that market can become significant for Schlumberger? That's a good question.
I think we see Arctic as a interesting market and a good opportunity going forward.
We are I think very well positioned to take part in that in particularly in Russia we're already involved in one Arctic project there Prirazlomnaya.
At the same time we are also actively pursuing the other projects that are coming up both in like to say Greenland as well as other places in Russia and North America and Norway.
So in terms of overall impact and activity I think it's going to take a bit of time before it becomes really material.
But there is a significant potential there that we are going to actively position ourselves to take part in.
Okay.
Thanks.
And last other thing is that your two largest competitors talking about sort of 10% E&amp;P spending growth next year in North America.
Would you kind of echo that sentiment? And if so I was just curious if you’re position in the Gulf of Mexico would give you the expectation that you might grow a bit faster than whatever the E&amp;P spending comes in in North America next year? Yes like I said earlier in my prepared remarks I think it's too early to comment on specific growth numbers for any part of the world next year given the fact that our customers are still in their planning cycle.
I am optimistic though that we'll see growth in North America in terms of spend next year and potentially higher than what we saw this year.
But beyond that I’m not ready to give you a number at this stage.
Okay.
All right thanks guys.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
On behalf of the Schlumberger management team I'd like to thank you participating in today's call.
And John will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference is available through replay.
It starts today at 10:00 AM Central Time will last for one month until November 18<sup>th</sup> at Midnight.
You may access the replay at anytime by dialing 800-475-6701 international parties please dial 320-365-3844.
The access code 298703 Those numbers again 800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 298703.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
For the conference all participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that I will turn the conference now over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Malcolm Theobald.
Please go ahead.
Thank you John.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited fourth quarter and full year 2013 results conference call.
Joining us on the call today are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I’d like to remind the participants that some of the information in today’s call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
And now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Malcolm.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.35.
This represents an increase of $0.06 sequentially and is $0.31 higher when compared to the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we recorded a $0.09 charge relating to a provision of accounts receivable in connection with the client in Brazil who filed for bankruptcy during the quarter.
Fourth quarter revenue of $11.9 billion increased 2.6% sequentially.
Of this $298 million sequential increase the vast majority came from the year-end surge in software product and multi-client sales that we typically experienced in the Q4.
Oilfield Services pre-tax income of $2.6 billion increased 4.3% sequentially.
Pre-tax operating margin increased by 37 basis points to 21.9% largely due to the positive effects of the previously mentioned seasonal year-end sales.
Sequential revenue and pre-tax margin highlights by product group were as follows.
Fourth quarter Reservoir Characterization group revenue of $3.2 billion increased 1% while margin improved 132 basis points to 31.7%.
These increases were driven by traditionally strong end of year software and multi-client sales offset in part by the seasonal decline in the WesternGeco Marine activity and the conclusion of several higher margin exploration projects.
Drilling Group fourth quarter revenue of $4.5 billion increased 1.9% while margin declined by 69 basis points to 19.6%.
The revenue increase was largely attributable to robust M-I SWACO and IPM activity in the Middle East and Asia area while the margin decline was finally due to an over less favorable revenue mix.
Fourth quarter Production Group revenue of $4.2 billion increased 4.8% as a result of robust Completion and Artificial Lift product sales and pre-tax margin declined by 27 basis points to 17.3% as the impact of stronger results from our Schlumberger production management projects and end of year product sale was more than offset by continued pricing pressure in U.S.
land.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 22.3% in the fourth quarter compared to 22.7% in the previous quarter.
Net debt at the end of the quarter was $4.4 billion representing an improvement of $1.2 billion as compared to end of Q3.
Most notably we spent almost $1.1 billion on our stock buyback program during the quarter.
We repurchased 11.9 million shares at an average price of $18.67 during the quarter.
In addition during the quarter we took advantage of the low interest rate environment by issuing $1.5 billion of 3.65% 10-year notes and €500 million 1.5% 5-year notes.
Other significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.2 billion of CapEx and an improvement in working capital of approximately $1.2 billion.
We were quite pleased with our working capital performance during the quarter.
From a cash flow perspective we generated approximately $10 billion of cash flow from operation during all of 2013.
This strong cash generation has allowed us to continue to invest in growth opportunities which we did by completing various acquisitions and investment in other companies most significantly our investment in (indiscernible) and investing $4.3 billion in CapEx and multi-client.
While at the same time returning $4.2 billion of cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases during the year.
During the full year 2013 we repurchased 31.3 million shares at an average price of $82.82.
From for a total of $2.6 billion while paying out $1.6 billion in dividend.
As it relates to 2014 CapEx is expected to be approximately $3.8 billion in 2014 as compared to the $3.9 billion we spent in 2013.
We expect the EPR for the full year 2014 to be in the low to mid-20s however this can vary on a quarterly basis depending on the geographical mix of earnings.
Yesterday our Board of Directors approved a 28% increase in our annual dividend to $1.60 per share.
This follows last year’s 15.6% increase and increases of 10% in 2012 and 19% in 2011.
This new level of dividend reflects our confidence in our ability to deliver this growth and at the same time generate superior cash flows and return excess cash to our shareholders.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our fourth quarter results presented a very successful year for Schlumberger was driven by continued growth in the underlying activity as well as strong year end product sales partly offset by the temporary shutdown of our operations in South Iraq in November and we expected seasonal slowdown in our businesses in North America Russia and China.
Fourth quarter multiclient seismic sales were slow in the first two months of the quarter but we saw very strong sales in December driven by high demand for the latest surveys in our library which are based in our unique acquisition and processing technologies.
Sequentially overall revenue was up 3% with topline growth posted in all four operating areas while pretax operating margins expanded by 37 basis points to reach 21.9%.
Compared to the same quarter last year pretax operating income was up 23%.
New technology sales remain strong in all three product groups and this together with further market share gains as well as focused execution and cost control contributed profitably to the quarter’s results.
For the third quarter in a row we also posted commendable sequential incremental margins this time at 36% was generated $2.5 billion of free cash flow boasted by our ongoing efforts to improve asset utilization and reduce consumption of working capital.
Our international business progressed well in the fourth quarter with revenues tapping in all time high exceeding $8 billion and representing a year-over-year growth of 8%.
At the same time year-over-year margin expanded by 349 basis points to reach 23.5% which is only around 350 basis point compared with the previous quarter peak recorded in Q3 of 2008.
Sequentially international revenue was up 3% and margins expanded by 23 basis points.
In terms of pricing the international market continues to be highly competitive and we’re not seeing any kinds of a general pricing inflection.
Still the current market conditions suit us well as we’re able to drive our effective pricing approach to a strong new technology sales by commanding a premium on our execution capabilities as well as from the growing demand for integrated services.
These factors are also reflected in our revenue for pricing indicator which in 2013 improved by 5% over the previous year.
In Latin America revenue was up 3% sequentially well margins expanded by 59 basis points to reach 21.2%.
Compared to the same quarter last year revenue was down 3% while pretax operating income was up 13% driven by excellent margin improvement in the region inspite of the market headwinds faced in several key countries.
The sequential results were driven by strong performance in Ecuador where Shushufindi SPM project continues to exceed expectations.
In Argentina where we’re very active with the shale related work in the Wakamoto and by Mexico where we saw strong activity on land.
In Mexico where the energy reform was signed in December and we expect the first license grant to be held later 2014 with the earlier impact on our activity in 2015.
The early indication from the (indiscernible) which were significant and opened earlier this week are very positive for us suggesting a solid gain in market share.
In Venezuela activity was sluggish in the fourth quarter after solid growth in Q3.
Our working relationship with PDVSA is excellent and we continue to receive payments in line with the agreement we signed in May last year so we plan to further ramp up activity in the country in 2014.
In Brazil the business environment remained difficult with lower activity in the fourth quarter for Petrobras as well as the local independent and the international oil companies.
We have adjusted our cost base in the country and are prepared to manage what appears to be a challenging 2014 before activity growth likely resumes in 2015.
In the Middle-East and Asia revenue grew 5% sequentially while margins were flat at 26.1%.
On a year-over-year basis revenues increased 18% while margins were up by 404 basis points.
In the Middle-East sequential growth was driven by Saudi Arabia where we continue to move in resources to keep pace with the additional growth for the last eight month [ph] and by the United Arab Emirates activity is at a record high following our recent contract with them.
In the North Sea we saw expected seasonal impact on activities driven by winter weather and the NW [ph] pricing increasing.
While in North America business continues to be challenging due to reach and operational delay and as well as ongoing security challenges.
Looking at the 2014 outlook for the Europe and Africa region we still expect growth to be driven by sub-Saharan Africa and to a certain extent the North Sea while we expect the ongoing challenges in North America and Continental Europe to continue in the coming year.
In North America we posted a third quarter with revenue up 1% sequentially when margins were down 67 basis points to 19.6% driven by expected seasonal impact.
On a year-over-year basis revenues grew 7% and margins were up 46 basis points.
In the Gulf of Mexico deep water activity remained high in the fourth quarter and the offshore rig county is expected to show strong growth also in 2014.
In the land market activity was solid with the fourth quarter U.S.
rig count remaining flat sequentially while the seasonal activity recovery in Canada stayed in line with 2012 levels.
The main challenge in the North America land market is still pricing and we saw further downwards pricing pressure in most product lines in the fourth quarter partly amplified by the renegotiation and roll over of several key contracts.
In hydraulic fracturing we continue to gain share in the fourth quarter driven by new technology sales and operational efficiency and we took the opportunity to allow another fracturing fluid operation in addition to the four fleets we added in Q3.
And second the fracturing fluid which enables the control of solid coupling within the fracture can allow more the fracture height to be effective across and thereby further enhance the production from the well.
To address these opportunities we will introduce in the coming quarters the broadband family of fracturing services which will include new engineered tool systems and corresponding hardware completion solutions.
We’re very excited by the production enhancement potential of these technologies and will share more information as we complete the remaining field test and commercialization milestones.
In another market we’re focusing on in North America land due to a significant growth potential is the artificial lift market.
In line with SPM in the past quarters acquired a number of Broadcom companies covering the key liquid producing shale basins in the U.S.
and Canada.
We will now combine the offering from these strong basin specific companies in our existing artificial lift business in North America land to provide a life of well lift solution to our customers using our production engineering expertise and expenses monitoring and data integration capabilities.
Let me now take a few minutes to summarize our full year 2013 results and achievements before we turn to the 2014 outlook.
In terms of financial performance 2013 was a very strong year for us where we continue to outperform our competitors in terms of top-line growth margin expansion earnings per share growth and free cash flow generation.
The results were driven by strong new technology sales and a relentless focus on flawless execution and cost and resource management throughout organization.
the (indiscernible) acquisitions in North America land an investment in the U.S.
SPM project covering both North America and Shale Liquids and China Piped Gas.
While these achievements are obtained in the past there certainly has been demonstration of our ability to formulate or executive plan that drive our company forward and should also instill confidence in our ability to continue the current trend of our financial outperformance.
Let’s now turn to the outlook for 2014 where we expect the global economy to continue to improve building on a positive data point seen in the past quarters and translate again both a higher GDP growth rate and higher growth in global oil demand compared to 2013.
Correspondingly we also expect the global oil market to be well supplied in the coming year driven by continued growth in North America liquids production leading supply and demand relatively well balanced with fair capacity excluding Libya in the range of 4 million barrels per day and this continuous support for Brent crude prices around $100 per barrel.
The international gas market is also expected to remain stable supported by strong demand in Asia and improving demand in Europe.
Translating this macro picture into activity in North America we expect strong growth and growth in Mexico driven by the influence of additional deep water rigs and on land in North America we expect solid growth in activity but for the pricing pressure we will likely have some impact on how much of this activity growth is translated into revenue and margin progression.
In the international markets we expect growth in Latin America to present by in Argentina Ecuador and Venezuela.
(Indiscernible) the main growth market will again be sub-Sahara Africa and Russia while an in EMEA growth will be spear ahead by Saudi Arabia Iraq and United Arab Emirates and China.
Although we remain positive and optimistic with respect to the coming year as we again aim to cause solid double-digit growth in earnings per share to firstly by further market share gains on the back of our new technology and secondly by our ability to generate superior increment to margins to the cost and resource efficiency of our execution.
In terms of how 2014 will unfold we expect the second and third quarter to again show the strongest sequential role while the first quarter similar to previous year should be decline in earnings and margins due to the normal seasonal slowdown and lower products and multi-client sales.
We’re all proud of the progress we have made over the past 12 months and we have patience and ready and motivated to further improving our achievements in the coming year.
That concludes my remarks but before we open up for questions I would like to make a brief announcement.
After all the six years in-charge of investor relations Malcolm Theobald on February 1st take on a new role in the company as President of our drill based business.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank Malcolm for his support and contributions as Head of Investor Relations and wish him the best of luck in his new assignment.
Malcolm will be replaced by Simon Burns [ph] as Head of Investor Relations and Simon was previously in-charge of our North Sea GeoMarkets.
With that we will open up for questions.
Thank you Paal.
John we will now take questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And first go to the line of Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
You have made a big push an emphasis on returns on capital efficiency of your previous two quarterly calls in particular and we can see the results now some pretty strong free cash flow as a percentage both of sales and EBITDA but can you talk just a little bit as to how much more efficiency is there squeezed out of the system now? Because you seem to have come quite a long way already.
Well I mean as you see from my numbers and as you point out we have stepped our focus on cash generation this year.
We have put a lot more emphasis in that throughout the entire management and even it's starting to pay out.
Now in the first three quarters of 2013 we generated around $3 billion of free cash flow and in Q4 alone we generated 2.5 billion on top of that which is the new quarterly record right? So the key drivers I think is both it's management focus on working capital and asset utilization and we want to continue to perform over that into 2014.
We indicated that on CapEx next year is going to be around $3.8 billion and the continued growth in the top line and the bottom line and I’m optimistic that reaching further step up the generation of free cash flow.
It's essential how we manage our cash flow.
Simon do you want to a few things on that?  So basically if you look at our cash flow generation the last couple of years we suffered a bit from the increase in working capital and the increase in working capital as we have mentioned before was our way of setting up all the Smith acquisition that we made in order to distribute the product further worldwide.
The current performance that we have seen is back to normal and I think we will continue to be performing very well as far as the working capital efficiency and as Paal mentioned we are finally got to a point where our CapEx as a percentage of revenue at a manageable level and I think the cash flow generation will continue to be strong as you’ve seen it in 2013.
What is it in your business that gives you confidence that you can take CapEx down while your revenue is increasing? I mean that’s something which sort of no other company has not been able to do.
By coming down to some of the elements that we have discussed around the internal transformation.
There is a lot of focus and lot of things we’re doing to guide asset efficiency or asset utilization that revolves around better sharing between locations you know quicker turnaround in maintenance and a better transportation network setup as well.
So yes we’re going to continue to grow in 2014 an we’re taking CapEx slightly down and I think I’m quite comfortable with really different [ph] levels we’re making in the in-line growth with higher than what we anticipate.
We have the option of further increasing CapEx but as of the $3.8 billion number that I’m indicating I’m quite comfortable with.
Just little clarification Paal you didn’t sound particularly upbeat about general pricing trends either in North America or international for kind of commodity and the type of services.
Yes you highlighted but in your case if I heard you correctly you had a 5% positive pricing indicator because of technology and again could you kind of elaborate a little bit on exactly what you mean by that? Well the revenues were rich indicators basically we talked to revenue we generate for the unit rig activity and but using more revenue earnings well obviously that house [ph] but also by substituting existing basic technologies with new technologies really command the pricing premium that basically helps drive that indicator out.
So on average in 2013 that revenue for pricing indicator grew by 5% over 2012 which obviously helps both in the top-line and on the bottom line.
Okay you also highlighted the higher price contracts rolling off how do you see 2014 kind of the headwind there and the tailwind on your technology and ability to push more value as through products offering.
Well if you look at 2013 it's one of the highest years we have had in new technologies both in new technologies that we were introduced over past years and we track it very (indiscernible) and also the technologies that were introduced in the past five years which we also track very closely.
So we have a number of new technologies that came on 2013 and a similar number is not even higher coming up in 2014.
So we will continue to leverage what we have introduced in the past year and also augment it a significant number of new technologies coming out in 2014.
So I’m quite positive and optimistic that through the new technology introductions we can continue to drive the effective pricing up.
Now big contracts like for instance we saw in Mexico recently it's continue to be a big quite aggressively and competitively on the basic pricing but having a number of new technologies that we’re introducing we should be able to continue to our improve that revenue for rig pricing indicator.
Our next question is from Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Paal can I follow-up on the comment that you made about the new technology on the fracturing side.
You commented the lesson of two things one just fracture stage effectiveness and two I guess in propagation but the technology platform that’s looking to be rolled out this year looks to be more than just fluids involving the hardware et cetera.
Can you expand upon that?  With further comments on the Broadband family until we have completed the key testing and the commercialization milestones.
The few things I mentioned are around high precision fracturing where we cross address each perforation cluster as well as having finished with which better control to sort of coupling.
There will be technologies in this family that will advance those there might be some other things there is lot of we will talk about that when we have firmed out the key testing and we’re ready to roll it out.
Okay but it's fair to assume at this point that it really is sort of an end to end solution as opposed to a single point solution the way highway was introduced.
Is that a fair characterization? That is fair to assume yes.
Okay great.
And Simon quick one for you the working capital frankly I have never seen a $45 billion revenue company use almost no working capital for the course of 12 months.
First of all congratulations on that and second one is that something you can expect to continue in ’14 and what have been the major levers that have brought that about this year? it should be less than the previous two years but I cannot promise you it would be the performance of this year and hopefully we will maintain it but you know growth always consume a bit of working capital.
So you can assume it would back to normal not the level of the last couple of year’s consumption and it will be continue to be efficient because entire organization is basically focused on sharply to improve the working capital performance.
Okay so when you say back to normal I mean is it still 1% of revenue plus or minus? That would be yes more or less the case.
Next we will go to David Anderson with JPMorgan Securities.
Please go ahead.
So Paal you were talking about your expectation for about I think I believe I heard 6% kind of overall E&amp;P spend guidance of earnings up double-digits.
Can you talk a bit about how much that earnings improvement in ’14 is going to be related to the internal transformation on the efficiency and the asset turns? While if you look at the solid double digit growth in earnings per share it's kind of a combination of the two (indiscernible).
So we aim to grow our foot line faster than the growth in the E&amp;P spend.
This is going to be driven by new technology which we just talked about but also the quality of our service and our integration capability.
But we all plan to continue to expand margins even in a challenging pricing environment.
That’s going to be driven by our execution efficiency and our ongoing transformation in the program.
So how much is going to come from each we obviously have a very clear on view I’m not going to go into the detail probably but I think both of them will be very good contributors.
can you help us put this into perspective I think I heard you say about the infrastructure but can you talk about how that’s looking right there in terms of their pure upstream spending and maybe kind of collectively I mean would you just think that the offshore spending will be up at least mid-single digits? I mean it just seems like we’re hearing kind of different stories in different parts of the market.
Yeah if you look at the comment I made on tool for E&amp;P spend this is expected to be around 6% and that’s really based on the third party survey.
So at the average of that they will come in around that level.
Within the 6% as I said the international growth somewhat north of 6% and NAM growth somewhat below.
But now while the industry focus is on the total E&amp;P spend what is really driving our business is the well related E&amp;P spend.
So we actually have our own spend model which is entirely focused on well related E&amp;P spend and this is a global model and it's based on well count well price well cost by cost I mean by countries [ph] Our next question is from Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
If I could I guess follow-up on that if perhaps you can give us some perspective because part of what I think is raised concern among investment community is the lack of contracts recently for deep water rigs for example casting somewhat of a shadow on the what had been the fairly obvious trajectory for a deep water activity growth.
Do you have any thoughts on the nature of that and then presumably there is a release of a lot of the contracts that you would envision happening soon? not now.
We have factored these elements into again into our outlook so we’re not overly worried about what that mean from an operational perspective for us.
Understand okay.
Maybe it's a related follow-up maybe it isn't but the conversation has shifted to sort of an overall level of spending from what had been a mixed conversation a little bit ago but I wouldn’t mind coming back to that the mix of exploration versus development.
In your modeling as you see ’14 playing out so a two part question first is there a discernible mix that you look for and then in a sense the second part of the question is does it matter as we look at some of your what I think are some of your higher margin businesses on the exploration side if there is to be a move away from that how much can you mention seismic in or seismic was mentioned by your colleague earlier.
How much of any of that matter? That mix shift if you see it coming for ’14? Basically we have a very broad and well-balanced portfolio.
So these shifts they might have small impact but overall I’m not overly worried about that going into 2014.
With respect to exploration we still see growth in exploration in 2014.
It's going to be lower than the roughly 10% that growth that we saw in 2013 but still decent growth.
Now in terms of the nature of the growth in exploration we expect this to be more well related again so we’re pretty clear that the flattening of the pricing spend is happening.
There has been a lot of data acquired in recent years.
So the growth in exploration is going to be more well related than exploration related and well that is that means that it's a more challenging environment for WesternGeco it still bodes well for our Wireline well testing and drilling product line.
So of course they called in the balance.
And next we will go to James West with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
So Paal I think we have gone beat up the E&amp;P spend numbers globally and it's clear that you guys intend to grow faster than 6%.
Maybe if I turn to one of the markets I guess it's been more troubling for the industry which is North America.
We’re looking at least at some acceleration or some increase in spend in North America pricing obviously still weakish but do you think with this pickup in activity that’s envisioned you hit a point where these product lines that had been at a balance can start to come back into balance and maybe pricing is no longer that much of a concern? Well we would like if that happen but if you referred to the fracturing if I go like fracturing there is still today significant industry overcapacity of horsepower.
So at this stage we do not expect the market to reach equilibrium in 2014.
Now in terms of activity for North America you expect solid growth in activity on land in 2014 and a lot of this is still going to be driven by further improvements in drilling and fracking efficiency.
And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks we do not see any significant combat in in dry gas (indiscernible).
So if you look at the trends that you saw in 2013 I think they are continuing into 2014 and North America last is going to be I think more of a same.
And then maybe a perhaps on related follow-up but talking about your technology pipeline it sounds like there is acceleration in new technology introductions.
Are these more focused on the U.S.
land market as you kind of highlighted some of the stuffs that you’re testing right now or is this global and you just choose to highlight the North America technology? It's more than up against I choose to focusing on North America because this is where I think technology will have a significant impact in terms of how the market is going to be shaped going forward.
We talked about that on previous calls.
We obviously have a broad I would say portfolio of new technologies coming out also addressing the international markets with the range of businesses we all present but I choose to highlight North America land and attracting on the coal.
Our next question is from (indiscernible).
Please go ahead.
Paal I appreciate the comment especially on the near term outlook for 1Q and the seasonality I was curious so if we think about adding back the negative impact you saw on fourth quarter for Iraq.
We thought about first quarter Middle-East Asia margins let’s say should we assume that add back of revenue and the attaining profitability at least offsets whatever multi-client excuse me you’re in product sales that you lose traditionally in the first quarter so perhaps maybe revenue flattish margins flattish is opposed to down in Middle-East Asia for 1Q? Well the question is to if you want to welcome to give you a specific number or go much more in detail.
I would say the change the sequential change both in revenues and margins in both environment I think is going to be more and less in line in what you see at an average over the past couple of years.
So there are a lot of moving parts in our business and the way we see we do want to at this stage that is going to be more or less at normal seasonal growth that we see.
Okay my follow-up Simon will be for you.
I guess with the dividend raise now by looking consensus numbers for ’14 the dividend is coming by a 28% of net income is there a target range that you guys have as a management team or as a Board that we should be thinking about longer term here in terms of where that dividend potentially can go as a percentage of net income.
You know if you look back on several years now we look at our dividend every year in January and we decide based on the level of activity the cash flow where we’re going to be as far as the dividend is concerned.
The 28% this is on the higher side and reflect the new level of cash flows that we are at and we will continue to be but there is no target number for the dividend.
We will look at it every year and we will reflect basically on the condition of the business and the growth in the cash flow but there is target number.
And Simon do we just should we view the assumption of debt during the quarter specifically just to fund the share repurchase program and is that something that we should expect to continue and what is still a little interest rate environment? Frankly we don’t need to borrow to fund the repurchase we did the borrowing to take advantage of the lower interest rate which as you know kind of climbed the business during the quarter so we did it at the right time and we have some maturing that’s coming in the first half of 2014 which we will use this excess cash to bring it down.
Our next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
With regards to 2014 I’m not sure if you made mention of this or not yet but with regard to your international margins in ’13 incremental were kind of 40% to 45% in that range for last year.
Should we expect much the same in 2014 with regard to international incremental margins? Well we want to try I can’t promise but we have a lot of drivers that we’re working on to which is kind of you know puts us to try to refuse that.
But now it's going to come down to a number of things but the new technology introduction and a further improvement in efficiency and quality are one of the key drivers.
So I can’t promise but we’re certainly going to try.
Okay and secondly back to the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter if I look at that what you guys have done over the past 5-6 years on average earnings per share is down a low double digit percentage quarter-on-quarter is that what we should be expecting or modeling for the first quarter? Well what number did you say? A low double digit percentage quarter-on-quarter.
Yeah I would say plus minus 10% is the rough is the average of the past 3-4 years yeah Okay so that a buck 20 an buck 21 I know you’re not endorsing a specific number but that’s not necessarily an implausible place to start for at Q1.
And next go to Angie Sedita with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Paal could you give us a little further color on the North American price weakness obviously we had seasonality in Q4 and what are you seeing in Q1? Is it too earlier to tell or do you think those stay continued price weakness into 2014? So season for us we would have appropriate impact in pricing in Q1 that’s mainly down to the renegotiation and rollover of all the certain contract that we have.
So we believe that a few of them during Q4 with some impact in Q4 we get a full impact of those in Q1 and the other contract as well that will probably impact in Q1 to a certain extent.
So that’s dated for the kind of pricing comments that I already made.
All right and then on the overcapacity kind of in reference to James question certainly going to be able to the capacity in 2014 is your thoughts that we will certainly see that in 2015 as well based on the market condition as we see it today? Well I think I will focus my comments on ’14 for now and things can move fast in North America land but we’re pretty confident that we will not reach equilibrium in 2014.
And then as I’m really a follow-up on Mexico congratulations currently on the market share gains.
Some color there on when you expect to mobilize equipment or actually start activity in Mexico and then comments on Mexico longer term.
Obviously expectations for the region are fairly high is it still too early to tell how meaningful Mexico will be or are you becoming more confident on Mexico? As I’ve said in my prepared remarks the early indication for these (indiscernible) we will have a pretty solid market share gain.
Now these contracts are not finalized yet they will be finalized during the first quarter.
We expect to mobilize the additional resources that we need to take on the additional work during Q2 and that we will get into kind of full operation on these contracts in the second half of the year.
So we still see H1 [ph] activity to be somewhat challenging partly due to the (indiscernible) slowdown but I think H2 [ph] will be better for us given the market share gains.
Now with respect to the and as you recall obviously the net profits for the industry in Mexico but the earlier impact on our activity will be 2015.
Our next question is from Jim Crandell with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Well the Chinese companies CNOOC PetroChina seem to be estimating a lot lower growth in E&amp;P CapEx in 2014.
Do you expect that as well and can you characterize which is just being in terms of the awards and business coming out of the Chinese companies? Well we continue to see strong growth and activity for us throughout in China on land and this is driven by both conventional price gaps and there are certain expense (indiscernible) right so partially this is through the market penetration for us.
There is lot better demand now for our new technology for our fracking expertise and also for our further management capability.
So I still the overall I still think China as one of the fastest growing geo-market for us in 2014 as it was in 2013.
I have a pretty positive outlook on China for the coming year.
Okay and then my follow-up is if you could comment on Brazil you had some cautionary comments about Brazil.
I assume you’re forecasting a lower level of business out of Brazil.
If that’s true what kind of drop do you see in business there for either drop in the market or drop in business for Schlumberger in 2014? I would say overall rig activity we expect to be flat in 2014 which is going to be another challenging year.
Exactly what’s going to happen (indiscernible) I’m not going to going reach out there but it will be a challenging year you know coping with the frac activity which is obviously lower than what we were expecting going back 12 to 18 months.
And we will go to Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt</strong>  I don’t have the detail for those available (indiscernible).
So I can’t comment on them and follow-up maybe Jeff.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay and then how should we think about from a top down standpoint measuring the progress Schlumberger makes on some of the cost and efficiency initiatives in ’14? Do we just watch that through the margin line or through incremental or what’s an external measuring sticks we can use to judge you by? Well I think both the margin probably is going to be a good measure of it it think also it will have some impact on our ability to generate the free cash flow.
So I think both of those are good yardsticks to look at.
We will go to Scott Gruber with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Just one quick one from me Simon can you provide some color on the CapEx trends in North America versus rest of the world and where you’re spending it down equally or is it weighted toward one region? It's really in-line with the rest of the world.
I mean you know last year it was lower because obviously the pressure pumping is consuming less as we have consumed some of the excess equipment.
Exact figure I don’t know ready with me but I will follow-up with you on this.
But there is you know I was thinking of the international side there is no bigger drop on the international side versus domestic at this point? If you look at 2013 we obviously stayed back significantly in North America due to basically hardly any CapEx required for pressure pumping.
So I think what you see going into 2014 is an more even increased North America versus international and obviously we included in North America to growth of Mexico where we see had price significant growth and these services are also quite capital intensive.
And we will go to Jud Bailey with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to follow-up on Latin America that was difficult market for Schlumberger and for the rest of the industry in 2013 although you still have to grow margins.
With the Mexico work ramping up with Argentina growing how much of a pickup in growth can we see in 2014? If you grew low single digits in this year or last year rather is that a market that can grow high single digits with Mexico coming back and Argentina growing or is that a stretch? Jud we typically don’t comment on details kind of growth outlook for either but I would say that we’re aiming to grow in Latin American in 2014.
What level I can’t really comment on.
And just another question you were able to like as I mentioned grow margins pretty nicely despite a difficult market in Latin American last year.
You mentioned cutting cost in Brazil given your cost structure down.
Can you comment maybe on how to think about margins in Latin America for 2014? Does it stay kind of soft until activity in Mexico starts to pick back up?  I think in the third couple of quarters given the challenging activity levels both in Brazil and Mexico Ecuador and Venezuela.
So while we have headwinds continue in Mexico and Brazil we obviously are going to do what we have to kind of offset those with the strong performances in those three countries.
Our next question is from Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Paal you mentioned that you’ve seen price weakness across most product lines in North America.
I wonder among all your product service lines and drill bits and fluids and LWD MWD et cetera where are you seeing relative pricing stability in contrast to areas that are weakening? In North America.
In North America yes.
Yeah I think for both of the product lines we’re seeing continuous pricing challenges.
I would say the only one that has kind of stood out as a positive and that’s very much driven I would say new technology introduction is actually a good thing.
So but the other ones given the market conditions are all facing pricing challenges.
Okay and you highlighted artificial lift as an area of focus in the shale play.
Now obviously a lot of the and the lot of the shale plays that have lower productivity wells ESP Technology is not generally employed.
So what is Schlumberger solutions that you’re working for lower productivity wells? Well what we have done over the past couple of quarters which I had in my prepared remarks is basically that we are both in number of smaller Broadcom [ph] companies for the key liquids shale basins both in the U.S.
and Canada.
So our plan is to combine the offering from the biggest Broadcom [ph] companies with our existing artificial lift business and then the objective is then to provide a life of well lift solution to the customer base.
So we will do that by looking at what is the idea of lift or ESPs and lot of technologies to optimize production and we’re going to obviously leverage our production adhering expertise and our ability to monitor and integrate the production based on from these wells.
Our next question is from Edward Muztafago with Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
I did have one follow-up question on sort of the incoming rigs and specifically as it relates to the Gulf of Mexico.
There has been a little bit of chatter recently that while there is a fairly large influx of rigs coming in and we may see a little bit exodus out of the Gulf as well and I guess what I’m wondering is on a net basis does the exodus you know sort of the lower specification shallower water rigs have material effect on Schlumberger or you know do you think that because you’re little bit more deep water focus does that say on that’s less of a concern? Well when I comment on the Gulf of Mexico my comments are generally focused on deep water which is obviously a large part of one operation and so while there might be some offshore rigs we’re still quite optimistic in terms of the rig projections and the results for the Gulf of Mexico or deep water in particular for 2014 and that’s what I’m basing the outlook on.
And then this is kind of a follow-up to the revenue per rig discussions in North America you know obviously one of the things that we have seen as the well count go up fairly dramatically in relation to rigs and so I haven't run the numbers I’m hoping maybe you will have but if we were to actually look at sort of revenue per well is it probably a better metric.
Do we see the same sort of trend between Schlumberger revenue as you would with rigs but maybe to a lesser degree that is the technology upscale has driven some atypical improvement in that metric.
So for the revenue per well in North America land I don’t have that data available at this stage.
I would still say that that’s probably you know not up as much as the 5% in terms of global revenue international revenue that I was referring to.
So there is continuous negative pricing pressure in North America.
So I would say revenue per well is probably more challenged than revenue per rig over a quarter.
Okay that’s all the time we have for questions today.
So now on behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today’s call.
I would like to also personally thank you for your support.
John will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference is available through replay.
It starts today at 10:00 AM Central Time will last for one month until February 17th at Midnight.
You may access the replay at any time by dialing 800-475-6701 international parties please dial 320-365-3844.
The access code 306544.
Those numbers again 1800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 and access code 306544.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited first quarter 2014 results conference call.
Today’s call is being hosted from Abu Dhabi where Schlumberger Limited board meeting took place earlier today.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I’d like to remind participants that some of the information in today’s call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the FAQ document which is available on our website or upon request.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
First quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.21.
This is $0.14 lower sequentially but $0.24 higher when compared to the same quarter last year.
As a reminder during the second quarter of last year we wind down our operations in Iran and classified the results of the business as a discontinued operation and all the prior period amounts have restated.
Oilfield Services first quarter revenue of $11.2 billion decreased 5.6% sequentially while the pre-tax operating margins declined 18 basis points.
Approximately half of the $667 million sequential revenue decrease was a result of the absence of the year end surge in the product software and multi-client sales that we experienced last quarter.
The remainder of the decrease was largely attributable to the seasonal weather related slowdowns that typically experience in Q1.
These factors also accounted for the sequential decline in margins.
Given the significant impact that these seasonal factors had on our sequential performance my comments will focus on year-on-year changes unless otherwise noted.
Oilfield Services revenue increase 6.3% year-on-year while pre-tax operating margins grew by 248 basis points.
Highlight by product group were as follows.
Reservoir characterization revenue of $2.9 billion increased 1.8% while margins grew by 129 basis points to 27.3%.
These increases were -- are primarily attributable to a very strong performance in wire line on improved offshore exploration activity.
Drilling group revenue of $4.3 billion increased 6.6% and margin improved by 249 basis points to 20.3%.
These improvements were due to increased technology integration and robust drilling measurement and M-I SWACO activities in the Middle East and Asia.
Production group of $4.1 billion increased 9.5% while margin grew by 313 basis points to 17.9%.
This growth was driven primarily by a very strong performance by well services in North America land despite the severe weather.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and the credits was 22.6% in the first quarter compared to 22.3% in the previous quarter.
We generated $1.6 billion of cash flow from operations.
Net debt increased $610 million during the quarter to $5.1 billion reflecting the consumption of working capital that we typically experienced during Q1.
Driven by the annual payments associated which increased compensation.
At 18% of last 12 month revenue working capital was lower in both absolute terms as well as percentage against the same quarter of last year.
Additionally we spent $899 on our stock buyback program during Q1.
We repurchased almost 10 million shares at an average price of $90.31 during the quarter.
As you know back in July of last year our vote approved new $10 billion share repurchase program.
To-date we have repurchased $2.6 billion of shares under this program.
During the quarter we spent $864 million on CapEx.
We generated $688 million of free cash flow compared to $127 million in the same period last year.
As it relates to full-year 2014 CapEx is still expected to be approximately $3.8 billion as compared to the $3.9 billion we spent in 2013.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
In spite of severe winter weather impacting activity in our Russia China and North America land operations our first quarter results were solid and fully in line with our expectations.
Sequentially revenue dipped from the fourth quarter as a result of seasonal slowdown in activity and lower product and multi-client seismic sales but grew year over year by just north of 6% while pretax operating income increased by 21% to yield an incremental margin of 60%.
The driving force behind these results is further market share gains on the back of growing new technology sales and expanding integration related activity as well as a relentless focus on operational excellence and efficiency.
In terms of revenue progression by customer group our year-over-year growth was driven by the NOCs and the independents which now represent more than 70% of our revenue while overall activity for the IOCs was more or less flat.
In the first quarter we generated close to $700 million of free cash flow which is an improvement of almost $550 million compared to the same quarter last year.
Based on the growing strength of our free cash flow we have decided to accelerate our current $10 billion stock buyback program announced in July of last year with the aim of completing the program in two and half years versus the original target of five years.
This does not change how we intent to use our cash where the priority continues to be reinvestment in the business to drive growth while we remain opportunistic when it comes to M&amp;A and also plan to renew dividend levels each year.
The acceleration of the buyback program is more a reflection of the confidence we have in our business performance and outlook and a signal of our commitment to return excess cash to our shareholders.
Our international business continued to perform well in the first quarter.
The seasonal impact of weather and lower product sales resulted in a sequential drop in revenue of 8%.
However pre-tax operating margins were resilient at 22.8% down only 73 basis points from the fourth quarter.
Compared to the first quarter of last year revenue was up 5% on the back of strong growth in the Middle East and Asia while pretax operating margins expanded by 286 basis points driven by new technology sales and strong focus on cost and resource management.
In terms of pricing the international market remains highly competitive and we have not seeing any signs of a general pricing inflection.
However our latest technology and our best in class service quality continued to carry a premium which together with the growth in integration related activity is reflected in our revenue rated pricing indicator which is up compared to the first quarter of last year.
The improvement in effective pricing together with our ongoing transformation programs focused on reliability and efficiency puts us in a very competitive position in the international markets which we are using to drive both market share gains and to expand our margins.
In Latin America revenue was down 12% sequentially while operating margins were essentially flat at 21.1%.
Compared to the same quarter last year revenue was down 8% however pretax operating income was flat due to proactive cost and resource management and also supported by our broad and diverse contract base in the region.
The year over year reduction in revenue was predominantly driven by Brazil where both activity and pricing were significantly down compared to last year.
Still introduction of new technology and swift actions to right size the resource base in the country has enabled us to minimize the negative financial impact from the lower activity.
In Mexico revenue was also down compared to the first quarter of last year driven by lower budget spend from Pemex both on land and offshore.
The Pemex mega tender process was concluded during the quarter and we have signed contracts worth $1.9 billion which represents nearly half of the awarded work scope covering all the major projects in the South and North regions.
The resource mobilization for the additional project is ongoing and will be concluded during the second and third quarter as we gradually ramp up the activity.
In Argentina year-over-year growth was strong driven by rig-based activity in the Vaca Muerta shale where we are also actively engaging with a number of customers on sub-surface studies and on projects to improve drilling and completion efficiency.
In Venezuela activity was also up year-over-year and we continue to work closely with PdVSA to help them grow production and improve operational efficiency.
And in Ecuador we posted strong growth compared to the first quarter of last year as we continue to progress on the Shushufindi SPM project where we again set the new production record during the quarter.
We also secured a right to negotiate for two additional blocks of fields in the country in the latest production in [indiscernible] that took place in the first quarter and these commercial discussions have already started.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue decreased 3% sequentially while operating margins were essentially flat at 26.3%.
On a year over year basis revenue increased 19% and margins were up by 349 basis points.
In the Middle East year over year growth was again driven by Saudi Arabia where we continue to move in resources to keep pace with the additional growth we are taking on and also by the United Arab Emirates where activity is at a record high.
In Southern Iraq activity was down significantly compared to the same quarter last year as contract awards are delayed due to ongoing discussions between the IOCs and the governments.
Based on this as well as the upcoming elections we do not expect any significant recovery in activity in Southern Iraq in the coming quarters and we are therefore already taking actions to right size our resource base.
Activity in Northern Iraq on the other hand was solid in the first quarter and we expect strong growth there in 2014 leaving full year revenue for the country flat with 2013 and the operating margins approaching the average of the region.
Southeast Asia posted strong first quarter results driven by high deepwater activity throughout the region solid SPM performance in Malaysia and very good drilling performance in our IPM project in Queensland Australia.
In China we continue to ramp up activity on our tight gas SPM project with Yanchang Petroleum in the Ordos basin and we are operating a total of 12 rigs at the end of the first quarter.
In Europe C.I.S.
and Africa revenue was down 11% sequentially and operating margins were down by 220 basis points.
However compared to the same quarter last year when the majority of the [formal] (ph) activity was still included in our ECA numbers revenue grew by 1% and margins were up by 253 basis points.
The year over year revenue growth in the region was also negatively impacted by severe winter weather in Russia as well as the weakening of the ruble that took place during the quarter.
Still the underlying activity both offshore and on land in Russia remains firm for the year.
There were also several positive activity signs in parts of Europe and Africa that helped offset the first quarter headwinds in Russia.
In Norway we posted solid year over year growth driven by market share gains for our drilling services and we expect to see further growth in the second quarter as the seismic season starts and wherever this year will have particular focus on the [balance sheet] (ph).
We have also been awarded a five year integrated well construction contract by the Norske for exploration and drilling activity where we will play an integral part of both the planning and execution process.
And in West Africa we also posted strong year over year growth driven by both exploration and development work in several of the Gulf of Guinea countries and we still expect strong growth in 2014 in the region in particular from Angola Gabon and Chad.
In North America we posted a strong quarter with revenue up 1% sequentially while margins were down 107 basis points to 18.5% driven by pricing pressure and severe winter weather on land as well as drilling delays in the Gulf of Mexico.
Compared to the same quarter last year revenue grew 12% while margins were down 53 basis points.
On land we posted strong year over year growth in revenue driven by market share gains and new technology uptick in pressure pumping as well as solid growth in our artificial lift business where we continue to expand our market position in the rod lift market.
Our margins on land were impacted by lower pricing in pressure pumping as we rolled over several key contracts at the end of last year and we also choose to incur additional sand transportation and fuel costs during the periods of severe winter weather to avoid any disruption to our customers’ operations.
In the Gulf of Mexico deepwater drilling activity was down compared to the first quarter of last year due to a series of operational delays longer completion times and more work over activity and this impacted several of our product lines.
However the situation is expected to normalize again in the second quarter and the outlook for deepwater drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico remains strong for the full year.
Turning to technology in 2013 we saw further growth in the rate of high impact commercializations from our RNE organization.
This together with significant improvements and the out of box performance of our new products had a clear impact on our financial results as presented in last month’s Howard Weil conference in New Orleans.
In 2014 we expect this trend to continue with a wide range of new technologies scheduled for introduction to the market at the rates that will even surpass 2013.
We will showcase a number of these new technologies in our investor events that will take place June 24th and 25th in New York.
In addition to the latest technologies from reservoir characterization and drilling we will present a range of new production related technologies including a revolutionary intelligent completion system our latest multistage completion technology and new fracturing fluid innovation and we will give you an update on our North American land artificial lift business where we see strong growth potential for both ESP and rod pump sales sales.
Together with these technology presentations we will review progress on our ongoing transformation programs and also provide an updated financial outlook for the coming three year period.
Moving on to the macro picture the global economic data has been mixed so far this year with the US suffering an unusually half winter China showing some signs of slowdown although still projected to grow along 7.5% in 2014 and the situation in Ukraine adding a new risk to the outlook.
However the fundamentals of the global recovery remain intact as the above factors are likely to only have a temporary impact.
In contrast to this the oil markets have been significantly tighter than anticipated as strong demand trends in OECD and in the Middle East together with continuing supply disruptions in various regions have left to lower spare capacity figures and pushed OECD stocks down to the largest deviation from historical averages since 2003.
The North American supply search continues to be just enough to equal the world's growing demand while all other growth regions including Iraq Brazil and the Caspian are struggling to meet their production targets.
This should continue to support oil prices around $100 a barrel and therefore encourage oil directed investments in both the North American and International markets.
U.S.
natural gas demand reached a new all-time record in Q1 due to the severe winter weather pushing prices to a six year high.
However U.S.
supply trends remain strong on the back of the Marcellus and as the weather normalizes over the springs and summer months we expect the North American market to return to a balanced supply demand situation from natural gas.
International gas markets remain relatively tight largely driven by Chinese demand which continues to grow at double digit rates while European gas demand has eased in the past months on a mild winter.
Based on these markets conditions we continue to expect well related EMP spend to grow by more than 6% in 2014 with spend growth relatively balanced between North America and the international markets.
We further expect our year-over-year growth in 2014 to be driven by the NOC’s and the independents.
After several years of strong growth our revenue IOCs has dropped over the past two quarters and was in Q1 flat compared to the same quarter last year.
However the first quarter should be the low point for IOC revenue this year as our latest activity outlook indicates sequential revenue growth from this customer group in the coming quarters and with full year revenue expected to be flat with 2013.
Equally important to the level EMP spend and the way we translate this into revenue it’s our ability to convert the top line growth into profits.
While we plan to deliver a solid incremental margin on the challenging market conditions in North America we see potential for higher levels in our international business as demonstrated by our first quarter year-over-year incremental margins of 86%.
We are not likely to maintain these levels to our 2014 but our international incremental margin potential should offer strong support to our earnings growth in the coming year.
Furthermore our broad geographical footprints our balanced technology portfolio and our agile organization provides us with insulation from market downsides as recently seen in Latin America and allows us to swiftly capitalize on market opportunities whether in North America or anywhere else in the growth.
We therefore remain positive and optimistic with respect to the 2014 outlook as we continue to aim for solid double digit growth in earnings per share fueled by a combination of topline growth margin expansion and the acceleration of our current stock buyback program.
That concludes my remarks we will now open up for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
First question comes from the line of David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning Paal.
I was wondering if you could expand a bit on your comments with the IOC’s so 30% business it looks kind of flat obviously we have seen a lot of headlines of the IOCs cutting CapEx I was wondering if you could put that into context first a little bit? Can you help us understand how you see it's progressing is it simply a function of day rates and when day rates come down the projects start moving ahead.
I was just wondering if you can help us how you see that kind of progressing throughout the year.
Okay.
So let me first start one thing so I said that the IOCs are now making up well below 30%.
So it has dropped over the past couple of quarters.
So we have already seen a reduction in their spend.
And what we’re saying is that it’s already flat now year-over-year the forecast we have from the value geomarkets and a roll-up indicates our progression in the next couple of quarters and we see the full year basically being flat year-over-year.
Now what’s driving that as we said before we believe that the primary focus of the CapEx cuts from the IOCs will be on projects that are heavy on infrastructure and probably less so on well rated CapEx although we have seen some impact on this as well.
Okay so if I think about kind of the exploration spend side of that I guess that’s the part that I wonder the most about.
It seems like that might be a little bit more at risk than say the development CapEx.
Can you talk about that from that standpoint and how that could impact the WesternGeco because obviously you guys have more exploration risk so just kind of help us kind of quantify.
Is that a risk for you going forward this year or are you seeing are you feeling pretty good about that exploration spend even with these kind of chatter-bumpy cuts out there?  We haven’t really changed our view on exploration spend or the seismic spends since the January call.
We still expect to see growth in exploration spend in 2014.
It’s going to be lower than 2013 and within the exploration spend we see flattening or flat seismic spend and the growth is going to come through well related spend through appraisal and exploration type of drilling.
So we haven’t really changed the view on either exploration or seismic from the January call.
That was already factored into the plan.
Your next question comes from the line of James West from Barclays; please go ahead.
Why don’t you just step into North America for a second clearly the rig count trends have been a little bit better than I think most people anticipated early in the year.
How do you see the progress for your business in North America going forward? Is it more that you’re going to gain margin and share from technology or do you actually see some pricing power developing? Well if you look at Q1 first of all in terms of our performance we saw very strong year-over-year growth as I said with revenue of 12%.
And this is a combination of market share gains and new technology uptake.
And we continue to gain share and pressure pumping.
And this is on the back of efficiency gains and new technology uptake.
And we added another two fleets in Q1 from our idle asset program.
Now in terms of activity outlook for North America on land we expect solid activity growth in U.S.
land in 2014.
We see this being led by South and West Texas.
And in addition to the number of wells we also see supported by again efficiency gains and further uptake of new technology.
In terms of Canada the breakup is going to have the normal impact on Q2 and we see Canada slightly up compared to 2013.
And Gulf of Mexico again Q1 was slow for us because of lower deepwater drilling activity.
We see this coming back in Q2 and onwards; so a strong outlook again for Gulf of Mexico.
Okay so you do it in the Gulf but this was I think a little or so deepwater rigs scattered into the Gulf from the second half of this year you do see all those rigs coming and going to work and see the big uptake in the second half of this year.
Yes we do.
And also the number of rigs in Q1 wasn’t really the problem.
They -- we regenerate less revenue although we have completion work there the amount of revenue per day in completion mode versus full drilling mode is obviously a significant relapse.
So it was not a rig count issue it was an activity type of issue in Q1.
Your next question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley; please go ahead.
Paal I’m just taking one step back at the -- and I want to just have you clarify a little bit a high level question.
You mentioned that the oil markets are tighter than one's anticipated.
I know you don’t like talking about client production or anything like that but once you made a statement I feel like I can ask you to elaborate a little bit more on that.
I think consensus have probably been more divided on where oil prices are going and this year and next year are meant to be the big sort of surge in production [indiscernible] that actually highlighted Brazil Iraq Caspian and of course North America.
So what is that you see here that you don’t think the other -- or that’s positive to make that statement? Ole I think if you want to build a very kind of bullish case on production I am sure you can do that.
It’s just that if you go back and look at the previous years there is always an element of project delays and production disruption.
And what we said in January is that we expect there to be a normal dose of that in 2014.
And so far this year we have seen that so the market is still relatively tight.
Obviously these stocks are down.
OpEx spare capacity is down.
And there is nothing dramatic in it other than that all the things aren’t lining up as maybe the bull case was at the beginning of the year for production.
Will you tie that to what you see at the customer level of increased project delays now with IOCs being more capital disciplined or taking a step back here having to borrow for their dividends? Is this something that you think is permanently delayed? How have you changed your view on it say 2017 let’s say longer term supply growth as a function of what’s going on at a CapEx level at the moment? I think what’s going to happen at least over the next couple of years is that the IOCs will focus more of their spend where they can drill wells and generate production from existing infrastructure or from infrastructure that costs less.
So huge infrastructure projects I would expect to be kind of lower in frequency.
And some of them might be postponed as we have already seen.
While the focus again is going to be on generating production which generates cash.
So the ability to do that at the lowest possible investment I think is going to be the focus which is still good for us.
So does that mean that you’re more than positive on the areas like the North Sea let’s say metro areas Gulf of Mexico than what you will be on frontier exploration like Arctic Russia or [indiscernible]? Well I think for the frontier areas you will still see exploration I think there is still a push towards delineating and trying to assess what these frontiers contain.
So I think although there is lower growth in exploration this year I still think there is going to be lot of interest to try to assess what kind of potential these areas have.
Now how the economics of the project was stack up and when development starts that will I think is going to be a function of what they find and what the economics look like.
But I still think there will be a push towards doing exploration in frontier areas yes.
And finally back to the U.S.
again you have the very impressive growth you highlight that this was market share gains through new technology.
Could you kind of help us understand a little bit now how much was market share gains on your technology and how much did the underlying market grow by in your view? Well if you look at the overall rig counts it was up about 4.5% year over year and I would say partly offsetting that growth also was inefficiencies due to the weather.
So a fair bit of this I think for us is market share as well as new technology.
So I am not going to give you a detailed number which I am sure you know.
But I am quite pleased with how we are continuing to progress in particular in the pressure pumping market.
We added about four fleets in Q3 one fleet in Q4 and another two fleets in the first quarter of this year.
And this is all at descent incremental margins so we are pleased with how we are progressing.
Anything on the technology side you can share or do you want to wait to do it? Well I already said a lot more about them what we normally do so I think that’s going to be it.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon Paal where you are good morning where we are.
I have a follow up question you addressed a lot of the concerns that investors have had with respect to the outlook on IOC spend and so on in great detail so thanks for that.
Question I would have would be how do you risk assess from this point forward right.
You put out your targets you kind of took a look at what’s going on with the offshore elements it looks like the offshore rig market is still kind of on a slide downward.
So from this point forward Paal if you were to look at the offshore market how would you risk assess it from here.
What do you is the biggest driver? Is it more what’s the risk on activities really what I’m trying to ask you from your standpoint.
Is it Brazil; is it outside of Brazil where -- how do you see that dynamic spinning up? Well if you focus in on deepwater where I think the biggest discussion has been this is where the biggest projects are and this is where the biggest discussion are on rig rates all right.
We looked at this in detail and if you look at the deepwater market it’s really two separate stories you have Brazil and you have the rest of the world.
In 2013 Brazil represented around 30% of the global deepwater drilling activity and in Q1 of 2014 Brazil was 20% down in activity while the rest of the world was up 3%.
Now for the full year of 2014 we expect Brazil to be down more than 20% versus last year while the rest of the world we see as being up high single digits.
And as we previously indicated in January the growth in the rest of the world deepwater is going to be driven by sub-Sahara Africa and Gulf of Mexico so really no change to that.
And we also see descent growth in both exploration as well as development for deepwater.
And then if you take that information Paal when you roll that up into your outlook from a total international revenue growth standpoint how should we think about that is that kind of mid-single digit or double digit still double digit growth how would you look at the international revenue dynamic for the year? Well if you look at the activity outlook or revenue outlook for us in the international markets again we see well rated CapEx spend growing north of 6% and it’s going to again be driven by both land and offshore.
There are a few offsetting factors versus what we said in January so if you quickly go through those we do see solid growth in deepwater drilling activity excluding Brazil.
In Latin America specifically we now see this as being flat driven by lower revenue in particular in Brazil but also to a certain extent in Mexico.
In Europe and Africa we are still showing good growth and basically in line with the previous outlook.
In Russia the activity outlook is unchanged but the revenue will potentially be lower due to the currently weaker ruble so what’s going to happen with the ruble as the year progresses we’ll have to see but if it stays where it is now then revenue is going to be somewhat lower than what we initially expected while activity is the same.
Now Middle East and Asia is stronger than we initially expected and that’s driven by several countries in the Middle East as well as Australia.
So that’s kind of how we see overall international.
Great.
And then one last follow up one of the key drivers for the margin performance and earnings performance over the last couple of years has been this internal dynamic for technology and excellence and execution and everything else.
As you look out at the North American market going forward you’ve now established firm leadership versus your peer group.
Do you expect the excellence and execution program in technology if your peer group were to grow margins by 100 or 200 basis points is that’s something that you think you can keep pace with or exceed given the dynamics in play right now.
Well like you say we've outperformed our competitors in terms of both topline growth in margin evolution [indiscernible] since like mid-2012.
So at this stage I am quite pleased with our position both on land and offshore in North America.
So we expect to maintain our margin leadership and at the same time grow faster in revenues.
So if our competitors can grow by 100 and 200 basis points I don’t see why we cannot do the same or exceed it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Paal so at a recent industry gathering you offered some interesting commentary about industry challenges and you referenced the fact that E&amp;P CapEx over the last 10 years have grown by 400% or as oil production was only 15%.
And you mentioned the fact that in the E&amp;P value chain the oil companies were the ultimate integrators of all the technical work associated with finding hydrocarbons and the collective oil services community was accountable for not delivering on required performance progress.
And you also mentioned that the required improvement was not going to come from yet another round of procurement driven price reductions across the E&amp;P value chain.
So along those lines as the industry is in introspective mood with where the IOCs and deepwater [indices] (ph) in terms of getting their deepwater cost and alignment apart from the mix shift from infrastructure to well CapEx what structural reforms are clients contemplating implementing and the discussions you’re having with your clients along those lines? Well I think if you look at the short term actions they are taking today they are looking at bringing the deepwater rig rates down.
I mean if you look at what’s happened on deepwater day rates over the past three four five years they have increased significantly and they have been completed disconnected from the other deepwater oilfield services right.
So today the rig rental makes up around 50% of the deepwater well cost so customers have really been looking for the opportunity to get the rig rental rates down and the opportunity is here in form of the high number of new arrivals all contract expiring and a significant reduction activity in Brazil.
So I think this is the opportunity.
In the short term they are trying to get some relief on cost.
Now my comments in terms of a procurement driven exercise across the industry is more focused in on we need to basically drive off the technical performance as an industry whether that is process efficiency or reliability of the projects that we execute.
So what some of my customers are doing is they are they are approaching us a lot more than in the past in terms of doing fully integrated projects where we are a lot more engaged in the upfront planning and the sign of the work.
And where we have a more performance based contracts in terms of how we execute the work as well.
So these are some of the short terms actions that they are taking.
And I think beyond that I think the service industry needs to take responsibility in terms of finding way of transforming themselves to drive both their internal efficiencies and their technical performance versus the customers that is how we can create more value and support our customers.
Okay.
And secondly coming out of the last quarter you offered some helpful I guess parameters for the first quarter earnings possibilities.
Do you have just a high level broad commentary with regard to what we should be focused on with regard to second quarter earnings possibilities? Well if you look at Q2 we should see seasonal recovery in Russia and China and also less weather impact in U.S.
land.
Now this is going to be partially offset by the normal spring break up in Canada which has already started.
And beyond this we are expecting steady growth in the underlying business as per the other discussions we’ve had so far today.
So our aim for the second quarter is to bring Q2 EPS back to the level of Q4 of last year.
That is for us a good target.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
And Bill Herbert thank you for asking the question.
And all thank you for the answer on the integrated projects.
Let me carry that on you mentioned several times in the press release about integrated projects their accretion to margins.
Can you talk about performance related contracts and what those returns look like relative to the rest of your business? Well in general Jim the performance based contracts are accreted to our margins.
So we take on performance based contracts where we have a pretty good handle on the environment that we operate in.
We have a very good handle on how our customers are operating and are interfacing and supporting our operations.
And also what kind of controls we have to drive performance.
So I would say in general our performance based contracts and a lot of them are within the drilling group if you take away the production incentive contracts they are generally accretive to our margins and if you look at the drilling group margin evolution over the past two three years you see a very steady improvement from the time we took over Smith in back in 2010.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
My follow-up question is your self-help efforts your transformational efforts internally those mean a lot and they’re structural and they last for a long time.
Which markets do you see those efforts having the biggest impact in over the next two to three years? Well I think they will have impacts globally.
We piloted some of these things in North America when we did the initial restructuring of North America land back in when we started in 2010 and that’s being some of the basis for our improvements in North America over the past three-four years.
But what we are doing is now starting to pilot in small scale in various other parts of the world and this is going to take several years before we get fully implemented.
But at the end of the day the transformation programs that I’ve been talking about publicly over the past year will impact all parts of the company both geographically and in terms of technology.
Okay.
And if I could when we look at the globe of the world what area what region do you think has the best upside to margins over the next two to three years? It’s difficult to think but I would say that -- as I said in my prepared remarks if you look at incremental margins we are going to focus in on driving incremental margins throughout our business.
With some of the I would say challenges in particularly in North America land with that we’ve been facing on pricing it is still more difficult to drive very high incremental margins in North America although we are going to try but the overall international markets I still think has a significant incremental margin potential and as I also mentioned year over year Q1 we had 86% incremental margins in international.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Paal if well based CapEx is up 6% globally is that an environment that you can grow your revenues in double digits? It’s a difficult question to answer.
I mean is it possible? Yes.
Are we going to get to double digits? I can’t really say and I wouldn’t commit to it.
But the fact that we have the potential of growing our revenues higher than the 6% is I think is very clear.
Okay.
Second question Paal is getting back to North American pricing for today’s technology not newer technology but is the 6% increase in well based CapEx in the U.S.
in 2014 sufficient to drive pricing anywhere in the U.S.
in any product lines for again today’s technology? I think overall I don’t think 6% is going to be sufficient to have a wide spread price increase in commodity type of technologies.
Now you might have small pockets where there is a surge of activity and there is insufficient capacity to deliver.
You might have situations where new technologies are introduced or where efficiencies are stepped up where you can drive your effective pricing.
But at this stage I would say that we are expecting North America land pricing overall we are hoping it’s going to flatten from where it is now that’s going to be the forecast I would say that we have going forward and then we are looking on top of that to drive up our effective pricing through a new technology introduction and by driving efficiency of our operations.
Okay good answer.
And then last question Paal you talked about Brazil what is the risk in your opinion of continued slides in activity in Brazil throughout this year and even into 2015? It seems like every rig that’s coming off contract they’re releasing.
Yes so as already said I think Brazil activity Brazil revenue for us this year is going to be significantly down versus 2013 it’s a combination of both activity as you say as well as the pricing on the new contracts that we took on during 2013.
So there is no surprise that Brazil revenue is going to be down significantly and that’s already factored into these discussions and the outlook that I’ve been giving today.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Paal you mentioned before China there was some weakness in the quarter.
Where do you see the outlook? Is this temporary and then what’s going on there for the year and beyond? Well we still expect solid growth in China in 2014.
It’s going to be a bit lower than 2013 partly due to some of these budget reductions that we have seen from the NOCs.
But our focus in the China land market is very much on penetrating it further and if you look at our overall penetration of that market it is still very low.
So we aren’t immediately impacted significantly by these budget reductions.
We are seeing significantly high demand for our new technology for our technical expertise and also for project management.
So that’s why we are still quite optimistic about China.
And growth is going to be driven by land both in terms of conventional type gas and shale gas and offshore is also going to continue to be solid.
So I would say solid growth in 2014 a bit lower than 2013.
And then in the Middle East it seems to be pretty active area as you mentioned.
Is there a way to quantify what kind of revenue growth could be possible from the Middle Eastern areas Saudi Arabia UAE Kuwait that area?  It is vague.
Yes and we have done it.
But I’m not going to share the outlook with you in great detail other than we see it -- we saw it as a major growth driver for 2014 and it has confirmed its potential and it might even be slightly up in April versus where we thought it would be in January.
So could it be in the upper teens growth rate there or mid teen growth rates in that kind of range?   I’m not going to give you a number.
You can look at the Q1 year-over-year number which was pretty solid.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil; please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Paal I found your comments on the southern Iraq interesting.
I know Iraq had been one of the five countries I think you had outlined previously as kind of the highest growth markets for you.
Has there been any change in terms of your thought on Iraq in general here in how the proceeds for Schlumberger as going forward and maybe just on a year-over-year basis? Yes for 2014 the main change has been that the activity in the south is going to be down.
And this is mainly driven by ongoing discussions between the IOCs and the Ministry.
There are things that they need to sort out and agree upon before they will move forward and award some of these lump-sum turnkey contracts that are pending.
So until that happens there isn’t going to be a lot of work awarded in the south.
And with the upcoming elections we don’t think that that situation and these bids are going to be awarded in the next couple of quarters.
We think that is probably a late year event before it happens.
So that’s why activity in Southern Iraq for this year is going to be down.
Now offsetting this is very strong activity growth in Northern Iraq.
And here we have an excellent market position.
It’s a lot focused on high-end exploration and we are able to offset the reduced activity in revenue in the South with growth in the North.
So that 2014 Iraq revenue is going to be flat year-over-year and the margins are also now quickly approaching the average for the region.
So overall it’s somewhat downgrading of the growth in Iraq but both margins and as well as the offsetting factor of the North is positive.
My follow-up would be I know you said sometime talking about the topline expectations in Latin America and the headwinds in Brazil.
Your commentary on Mexico I think is least as we start to think about the exiting 2014 on a year-over-year basis seemed more positive.
Just thoughts there in terms of when you perhaps see year-over-year growth in Mexico or I guess number one my follow-up to it will be just on the margins in Latin America.
You’ve done a pretty good job of holding those relatively flat.
Perhaps I missed it but I don’t think I heard any thoughts on the kind of margin growth we should expect that to move forward here in Latin America or just is relatively flat a good expectation? Yes I think overall for Latin America I think flat is a good word.
I think we see overall revenue to be flattish this year.
And we are going to work very hard on maintaining our margins around the levels that we had in 2013.
So far this year that's worked out well.
And we will continue to focus in on that.
So obviously a significant negative on Brazil which we already talked about.
Mexico is more of a positive story.
But in the short-term here what we see is a lot more budget discipline from Pemex; and also a little bit more hesitance towards spend as this ongoing reform proceeds.
But as you know we had some significant wins in the mega tenders where we have gained significant shares and we will be ramping up activity in Q2 and into H2.
So we expect to be exiting Mexico this year on a pretty good note and that will be a good driver for us in 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Gruber from Bernstein; please go ahead.
Paal can you talk about your strategy in North American and rod lift? You see a path to transform legacy products through technology development or is there any interest in the space largely based on a view of end-market growth? Yes so we are interested in North America land artificial lift markets and we have followed it for some time.
There is clearly significant growth potential there.
It’s a huge market.
There are hundreds of thousands of wells that installed rod lifts and we see a significant opportunity to apply more science and technology into this markets and also to help drive production and cost per barrel.
So if you want to be part of transforming a market which obviously are ultimate goal this year and transforming it to the benefit of our customers we are firm believers that you have to play in it; you cannot change it from the side lines.
So while we have a growing ESP business in the North America land for the shale liquid wells we also believe that we need to have a complete offering and what we are looking to do now is to combine our ESP offering with these rod lift companies that we have both over the recent quarters.
And then ultimately provide a life of well lift solution to our customer base.
And that could be ESP for part of the life and it could be a rod pump for the other part of the life.
So we are working on this and we will give a further off take on this business both I would say further strategy as well as technology in our June investor event.
Great.
In an unrelated follow-up in Russia Rosneft appears to be taking a new strategy toward contracting rigs.
Have you noticed a change in how they cooperate with the service companies? Are they starting to push back on pricing for any of your services? As far as I know we haven’t had any recent discussions with Rosneft on pricing beyond what is normal for our services.
Exactly what Rosneft do in terms of oil contracting rigs I don’t have any further comments to what their strategy is no.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But Paal I wanted to ask you about Saxon and sort of more strategically Schlumberger in the last few years has been moving away from the more asset intensive segments with the sale of rigs in Russia and obviously the spark business model in U.S.
pumping.
Can you -- is something changing with respect to that strategy or was this just an acquisition or consolidation of opportunity? No you’re right.
I mean we continue to focus on return on capital employed and to be would say capital efficient as we go forward.
So there is no change in the strategy here but let me just give you a little bit of the rationale for why we are acquiring Saxon.
So land rigs has always been a key part of our integration platform for well construction.
Now in the past and what led to the set-up of Saxon where we have basically sold them the rigs we sold the rigs to Eurasia in Russia as well is that our priority in the past have been basically to have access to rigs from a trusted provider.
It’s more a capacity issue that we’ve been focusing in in the past.
What we are doing now is that we are evolving this view to also seeing the land rig as a critical element of how we drive drilling performance.
So what we planned to do at this stage now and Saxon is generally focused on the international market where we have basically all of our integration related business.
We plan to invest in optimizing rig design and rig operations by combining Saxon’s rig engineering and rig management capabilities with our existing drilling expertise from both IPM and the drilling group.
So there are some third party rigs within the Saxon fleet today it’s quite a few and we will continue to support them and if there are opportunity to do third party rentals we will continue to do.
But we are predominately buying Saxon because we want to have our own rig provider that we can help help us drive the performance of our integration business for well construction.
Very interesting.
Thank you.
On Venezuela I know that PdVSA has been working with IOCs and [indiscernible] to try to work with terms and get activity higher to raise production.
Can you may be talk about what you see happening in that market over the next year do you think there will be success there and the 2015 could be a much bigger year in Venezuela potentially? Well for us Venezuela today is actually quite good.
Activity in Q1 was solid.
It was up more than 20% year over year and as you say we have a close working relationship with PdVSA and as we put our payment agreement with them in place payments are regular and they are according to plan.
So we are in reasonably good shape there.
So looking forward for this year we see continued increase in the rig counts.
And these addition of rigs are mainly focused in on the [indiscernible] and we continue to ramp up our resources and expertise in the country right.
We have a number of projects with PdVSA where we are working with them to drive operational efficiency and obviously to help them drive up production.
So we see Venezuela for 2014 to be one of the positives in Latin America.
And your final question today comes from the line of Jeff Tillery from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt</strong> Wondering if you -- you guys have introduced a couple of [leasebacks] (ph) to the U.S.
frac market from your stat capacity.
I wondered if you could just talk us through how you are thinking about further efficiency gains in your frac fleet here in the U.S.
as well as the ability to for the market to absorb incremental capacity for new well this year? Well I think the overall activity in terms of new wells and in terms of frac stages is going to be up in 2014.
And whether we will add more capacity into this I think is going to be a function of the pricing and the incremental margins we will get on the addition of fleets that we put in.
All the fleets that we have introduced over the past three quarters these criteria have been met and that’s why we have been adding them right.
So we are currently today operating at 82% in terms of 24 hour operations which has been obviously a key driver for efficiency.
And other than that we are focusing in on term contracts.
So we have about 90% of our pressure pumping contract volume on term.
And we do that because we see that as a key element to help drive efficiency.
That’s how we get predictable work.
And we have a close working relationship with our customers for planning and scheduling.
And also having term contracts and longer term relationships other than the spots also helps us in the way we work together with them in terms of technical collaboration as well as new technology introduction.
So I am reasonably optimistic about our ability to continue to gain share in that market.
What’s going to happen to base pricing I think base pricing as of now we are looking for it to flatten out.
Pickering Holt</strong> Your second question is just around the seismic outlook.
I know the backlog can be choppy for that business but it was up a reasonable amount sequentially to exit Q1 does that -- has that changed at all the Schlumberger outlook for the marine seismic business as the rest of the year plays out?  No we haven’t changed our outlook for the seismic business since January.
So like you said the backlog was up 196 million sequentially and 49 million year-over-year.
This was driven both by land and marine.
And in terms of the 2014 outlook for seismic we maintained the outlook that we did in January that it’s going to be flattish in terms of overall spend this year.
We continue to see pressure on basic marine pricing we saw that in Q1.
But in terms of Q2 and Q3 activity and our bookings and utilization is looking quite reasonable.
So we did no change to what we looked at in January.
Okay that’s all the time we have for questions today.
Now on behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today’s call.
Greg will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 9 a.m.
central time today through May 17.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 316978; international participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 316978.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Greg.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited second quarter 2014 results conference call.
Today’s call is being hosted from Paris where the Schlumberger Limited board meeting took place yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I’d like to remind the participants that some of the information in today’s call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the earnings press release on our website.
We welcome your questions after our prepared statements.
I will now turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.37.
This is an increase of $0.16 sequentially and is $0.22 higher when compared to the same quarter last year represents increases of 13% and 19% respectively.
During the quarter we recorded $205 million charge in discontinued operations relating to the potential resolution with the governmental authorities concerning historical matter.
Please refer to the supplement information contained in our earnings press release for further details.
Second quarter revenue of $12.1 billion increased 7.3% sequentially.
Pre-tax operating income increased 10.7% sequentially while pre-tax operating margins improved 67 basis points to 21.7%.
Sequential highlights by product group were as follows.
Reservoir characterization revenue of $3.1 billion increased 8.5% and pre-tax income grew by almost 18%.
This resulted in margins improving by 233 basis points to 29.7%.
This growth was driven by a very strong performance in wireline improved WesternGeco marine utilization and an increase in SIS software sales.
Drilling group revenue of $4.7 billion increased 7.4% and margin improved by 74 basis points to 21.1%.
These increases were largely attributable to robust international activity in M-I SWACO and strong drilling and measurement activity in North America and Russia.
Production group revenue of $4.3 billion increased 5.5%.
This growth was led by well services as a strong performance internationally and in U.S.
land more than compensated for the impact of the spring breakup in Canada.
Margins declined by 123 basis points to 16.7% primarily as a result of pressure pumping commodity inflation combined with the impact of the Canadian spring breakup.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 21.7% in the second quarter compared to 22.6% in the previous quarter.
We expect the effective tax rate for the full year of 2014 to be in the low to mid 20s.
However this can vary on a quarterly basis due to the geographic mix of business.
During the quarter we generated $2.4 billion of cash flow from operations.
For the first six months of this year we have generated $4.2 billion of cash flow from operations.
This compares to $3.8 billion for the first six months of 2013.
As we have mentioned at our Investors Day our investment in SPM business have now reached a point that’s starting this year.
We have begun to report them separately in our cash flow statement similar to the way we report CapEx and multi-client.
While this change has no impact on our free cash flow it does result in an increase in the amount of cash flow from operations that we report.
Net debt increased $1 billion during the quarter to $6.1 billion.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.2 billion of stock repurchases $522 million of dividend payments and $922 million of CapEx excluding multi-client and SPM.
During the quarter we repurchased 11.5 million shares at an average price of $101.85.
CapEx including multi-client and SPM is still expected to be approximately $3.8 billion in 2014 as compared to the $3.9 billion we spent in 2013.
And now I will turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon.
Our second quarter results were strong and fully in line with our expectations as international activity rebounded in Russia Norway and Australia and North American activity grew in both offshore in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and on land in spite of the Canadian spring breakup.
As a result second quarter revenue grew 7% sequentially and 8% year-on-year while pre-tax operating income increased by 11% sequentially and 15% year-on-year.
Year-to-date we continued to show solid growth in all our main financial indicators compared to last year with revenue and operating income growing by 7% and 18% respectively pre-tax margins expanding by 191 basis points earnings per share increasing by 22% and the incremental margins at a solid 48%.
Several factors are contributing to the strength of this performance.
These include additional market share gains at the back of new technology sales and operational efficiency as well as further support from strong quality cost and resource management throughout our global operations.
Our overall financial results continued to demonstrate our leadership in technology reliability efficiency and integration which formed the four components of our engine of outperformance that we detailed at our June investor conference in New York and which will continue to drive our corporate performance in the years to come.
In the second quarter we generated more than $1.2 billion of free cash flow bringing the year-to-date number to $1.9 billion which is 35% higher than for the same period last year.
The strength of our cash flow reinforces the confidence we have in the financial targets we laid out at our June conference and will also enable us to further invest in the business while increasing the cash we returned to our shareholders.
Our international business continued to perform well in the second quarter with seasonal rebound of activity coupled with growth in key markets leading to an 8% sequential increase in revenue while pre-tax operating margin expanded by 122 basis points to reach 24% a level not seen since the pre-financial crisis peak of 2008.
Compared to the second quarter of last year international revenue was up 7% when adjusting for Framo on the back of strong growth in the Middle East in Asia and in Europe Africa.
In terms of pricing the international market remains highly competitive and we have still not seen any signs of a general pricing inflection.
However our latest technology and our best-in-class service quality continue to carry a premium which together with the growth in integration related activity is reflected in our strong top line and margin performance.
The premium in effective pricing together with our ongoing transformation programs focused on reliability and efficiency puts us in a very competitive position in the international markets which we are using to drive both market share gains and further expand margins.
In Latin America revenue was up 5% sequentially while margins were essentially flat with the previous quarter at 21.2%.
Compared to the second quarter last year Latin America revenue was down 3% driven by Brazil and Mexico where the impact of lower activity on pricing were only partly offset by the strong activity in Argentina Ecuador and Venezuela.
Pretax operating margins however was up 62 basis points due to careful cost and resource management as well as our broad and diverse business portfolio in the region.
The stronger sequential revenue growth was recorded in Venezuela where we also renewed our payment agreement with PdVSA during the second quarter.
Compared to the same quarter last year our revenues in Venezuela this quarter was up significantly while we at the same time have reduced both DSO and the absolute value of our receivables.
In Argentina the strong sequential growth was driven by rig-based activity in the Vaca Muerta shale where we are now seeing encouraging results from the application of new technology and work flows and where a continued focus on the well cost reduction is also improving performance.
In Ecuador we continued to progress on the Shushufindi SPM project.
And during the quarter we also signed a letter of intent for Group 1 of the mature field tender with contract signature and ramp up of operations expected in the second half of this year.
In Mexico revenue fell sequentially and year-over-year due to lower overall rig count in the county continued budget restrictions in Pemex and as several of our IPM rigs in the south were shutdown for the entire quarter due to local social issues that are outside of our control.
However the activity outlook for the second half of the year is stronger as we continued to ramp up activity on the new mega tender contract where we have gained significant market share and as Pemex and the local government resolved the social issues impacting our IPM projects in the South.
Middle East and Asia revenue increased 4% sequentially while margins grew by 161 basis points to 27.8%.
The year-over-year revenues increased by 12% and margins were up by 323 basis points.
In the Middle East sequential revenue growth was again driven by Saudi Arabia where new well activity continues to expand supported by steady growth in the rig count and where rig less activity is also increasing in a number of fields.
We continued to add resources and invest in additional infrastructure in the Kingdom to keep pace with the additional growth we are taking on and with the capacity and capabilities we now have on the ground our Saudi operations is quickly becoming one of the largest and most advanced setups in our global portfolio.
Growth was also driven by the United Arab Emirates as activity continues to ramp up on our existing contracts together with additional seismic and completion technology deployments.
In Southern Iraq activity was as expected down both sequentially and year-over-year as commercial discussions between the government and the international oil companies continue and where the situation was further complicated by mounting civil unrest during the quarter.
The worsening security situation led us to take additional measures to protect our people and assets in the country but beyond the additional costs and lower efficiency there has been no impact on our ongoing operational capabilities.
However safety remains our top priority and we continued to monitor the situation closely together with our security advisors and we are ready to take the appropriate actions should the situation worsen further.
Activity in Northern Iraq on the other hand was strong in the second driven exploration drilling and we expect growth in this part of the country in the second half of the year to offset the activity drop we are seeing in the South.
Turning to Asia we saw strong year-over-year growth in several geomarkets driven by higher customer activity as well as market share gains.
The strongest growth was seen in Australia from continued land activity in Queensland successful completion of the first isometric seismic survey in the Great Australian Bight and strong new technology sales for both wireline and drilling and measurements on exploration projects.
In China revenue was up sequentially driven by strong offshore activity seasonal recovery on land and our tight gas SPM project in the Ordos Basin for Yanchang Petroleum.
Still year-over-year revenue was down in the second quarter due to slowdown in activity in several land basins as customers continue to review budgets and internal processes.
Looking at the second half of the year offshore activity looks strong and land activity including the shale gas developments is set to pickup from current levels.
However we expect growth rates to be somewhat tempered until our customers complete their internal reviews and spending plans are clarified.
In Europe C.I.S.
and Africa revenue grew 13% sequentially with margins improving by 180 basis points to 22.1% as activity rebounded from the first quarter seasonal lows.
Compared to the same quarter last year revenue grew by 4% and margins were up by 158 basis points.
Sequential revenue growth was driven by Russia where we saw strong recovery in activity after a harsh winter.
The underlying activity outlook both offshore and online in Russia continues to look solid and with recent contract awards in Sakhalin we expect to finish the year on a strong note.
Activity also increased strongly in the North Sea driven by seismic and core rig-related services in Norway for a number of customers.
In Africa sub-Saharan activity was solid in particular in Chad and Mozambique while in North Africa activity rebounded sequentially with growth in both Algeria and Tunisia but was partly offset by Libya where activity remained subdued.
In North America our revenue grew 6% sequentially in spite of the Canadian spring breakup and 16% year-over-year as we continue to grow our market share online in hydraulic fracturing artificial lift and drilling services.
As we actively expand our land business we are currently seeing some impact on our pre-tax operating margins which were down 53 basis points sequentially and 170 basis points year-over-year driven by additional costs related to supply chain and transportation and on-boarding of several new companies.
However these effects should be short-lived as we continue to implement our strategic plan for our North America land business and in the process established a broad and unique platform for profitable technology-driven growth in the coming years.
In our hydraulic fracturing business we posted strong year-over-year revenue growth driven by market share gains further improvements in operational efficiency as well as introduction of new technologies which altogether more than offset the effects of the spring breakup in Canada.
In terms of basic pressure pumping pricing we saw some improvement in the second quarter but this was contained to newer basins with lack of service capacity and to customers where we still operate at very low margins.
Still the pricing traction was partly offset by continued cost inflation for labor side and transportation and pricing discussions with our customers therefore continues to have a strong focus on cost recovery at this stage.
In the second quarter we also saw further improvement in our land drilling product lines where the combination of new technology introductions new business models and new alliances are driving both market share gains and higher operating margins.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater drilling activity was up sequentially due to the expected rebound from the operational delays that impacted the first quarter.
In the second half of the year the drilling rig count growth will flatten somewhat as some rig shift to completions related work although we still expect to see revenue growth through market share gains in several product lines.
The highlight of the quarter was undoubtedly last month investor conference in New York where we set out clear goals for continued strong growth and financial outperformance over the coming years.
Our plans are built on the four key themes of technology reliability efficiency and integration with technology and integration driving superior growth and reliability and efficiency improving financial performance.
In terms of technology we showed how our R&amp;E transformation that started six years ago has led to a step change in operational performance of our products and how we continue to accelerate the pace of new technology introduction with flattening R&amp;E investments.
During the investor conference we also laid out full details of our reliability and efficiency transformation programs and how this will change the way we manage our people our assets and our inventory as we look to further improve our financial performance.
Based on a set of realistic assumptions covering the global economy the oil and gas markets and industry investment levels we are confident in our ability to continue our run of financial outperformance and to deliver on the earnings per share return on capital employed and free cash flow targets that we laid out during the conference.
Turning our focus back to the remaining part of 2014 we continue to see a relatively constant mix of headwinds and tailwinds in the global economy and in our industry which leads us to maintain our already established outlook for the year.
The slow and steady recovery in the global economy is continuing and the global oil market remains relatively tight with a solid demand outlook continued supply uncertainty related to geopolitics and with Brent prices holding steady above $100 per barrel which should encourage oil directed investments in both the North American and international markets.
The North America natural gas market appears more comfortably supplied as U.S.
production continues to grow and storage levels gradually reconnect with historical averages while the market balances in the international natural gas markets remain more or less unchanged.
We continued to expect well related EMP investment levels to grow north of 6% driven more by development and production focused activities while exploration spend will likely be flattish in 2014 driven by lower seismic spend at the IOC’s focus on free cash flow generation.
Within this scenario the growth and performance drivers that we outlined in late June amplified by our broad geographical footprint our balanced technology portfolio and our agile organization will enable us to outperform in almost any market whether in North America or anywhere else in the world.
We therefore remain positive and optimistic with respect to 2014 outlook as we continued aim for solid double-digit growth in earnings per share viewing this quarter’s results as merely a steppingstone on the way to delivering the commitments we made in New York.
Thank you.
We will now open up for Q&amp;A.
Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Paal.
Greg we will now take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much.
And Paal I wonder whether you could just shed a little bit more light about what your comments on the cost structure in North America we are seeing very large volumes of sand for example this can hardly carry the same margin as your technology offering so how does this impact and how did it impact the margins in the quarter and how do you see that impacting margins in the quarter and how do you see that impacting margins in North America going forward when it comes to the relative pricing power and ability to take a markup on sand costs and logistics? Okay.
Thank you Ole.
So there is – as I said there is a lot of moving parts for us in North America at the moment.
So maybe I can just take you through the picture the way I see it.
So we have been focusing lately on revenue and expanding our revenue base in North America land.
At $3.9 billion in the quarter revenue was up 6% sequentially and 16% year-on-year which is a record for North America in spite of the Canadian breakup.
Now the growth came from both efficiency and share including pressure pumping artificial lift and drilling services.
In pressure pumping we added one more fleet during the quarter and that takes the total of eight additional fleets in the past year so we have clearly gained share in pressure pumping.
So the key here is like I said expand the revenue and share base in North America land to further broaden our platform for technology driven growth in the coming years.
Now with that we see some temporary impact on margins as we take on a higher proportion of somewhat lower margin businesses but we plan to drive margins up in the coming quarters in these businesses through integration scale and new technology introduction.
And like you said as well there were also some short-term additional costs related to supply-chain.
For instance on sand where we took some higher costs because there were some significant changes in sand price and volume for several of our customers and also transportation had some higher costs due to the fact that we had a very high growth rate and transportation availability become quite tight.
In addition to that you have the Canada breakup and you also have somewhat lower multi-client sales.
So all in all that drove the 53 basis points reduction but our focus going forward again is to drive the margins back up but on a much broader platform for revenue growth.
Thank you very much Paal.
Thanks Ole.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell from Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Paal could you address the potential for sanctions impacting Schlumberger’s business in Russia? Well as of now nothing has really changed for our position in Russia.
Sanctions were implemented earlier in the year.
There were some new sanctions coming out this year.
So far that has no real impact on our business.
So as of now it’s business as usual for us.
In Russia so far this year activity has been as planned or even slightly stronger.
The only change from the plan we laid out in the – at the beginning of the year was the impact of the ruble which had a fairly significant impact in Q1 but the ruble rebound somewhat in Q2.
So that’s really only the main change from the plan that we have seen so far in Russia.
So as of now no impact on sanctions and whether there will be impact in the future is a bit difficult to comment on but as of now we continue business as usual.
Okay.
And one follow-up Paal could you talk just a little bit about the recent announcement of the deal with Precision Drilling and how quickly you think the U.S.
can move to incentive pricing or some kind of integrated model? And I guess would this in that sense be shared with Precision or would this be – would Precision be working for you or are there a number of different scenarios as you look forward? So part of the reason for doing this alliance with Precision Drilling is that both ourselves and Precision Drilling believe that over time the North America land drilling market will move towards a general contractor model towards more of a construction turnkey type of market.
And in that setup we have now established this alliance where Precision Drilling will be the general contractor and we will rent them our downhole technologies.
In addition we will train their people to run it.
And obviously we will own the equipment and we will maintain the equipment for Precision Drilling.
So we see this as an avenue to establish further penetration for our unique technologies in the North America land drilling market and hence it’s another good growth opportunity for us.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next question? Please check the line.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Paal I just wanted you kind of expand a little bit about the cost pressures on your supply chain.
I guess my first question is are you able to pass through most of those costs right now you had said kind of near-term pressures I am just wondering is that because you are expecting to get those pass-through or is it also partly because the kind of the way your transformation is setup it just takes a little while to kind of absorb those and you start to see kind of better margins as we start to progress? Yes.
David I think in general we are able to pass through those costs.
What happened towards the end of Q1 and also into Q2 there were some significant changes in the way some of our customers operated in terms of sand prices in terms of volumes and these were basically somewhat unannounced and something we have to respond to relatively quickly.
We manage to continue to support our customers and support our operations but we took some additional costs in order to do that.
And over time we are able to pass these on and lower than we manage to pass on towards the second part of this quarter but there were some short-term changes that resulted in additional cost for us that we decided to absorb.
Alright.
And then I guess my other question around that was on your logistics obviously we are very big logistics operations.
As we start – as we see our North America progress over the next several years and in some of the cases we are seeing doubling of the amount of sand in wells do you need to build that out more are your sales I guess I am asking are you satisfied with the logistics footprint or is this an area where we need to build up a little bit better? This is all part of the entire story that I am talking about as well.
We are gradually expanding that to make sure that we can meet changes to how our customers want to operate but also continuous expansion of our business right.
So we continued to invest in that.
And given the fact that we have grown so much over the past years I mentioned eight traditional fleets in the past four quarters we are at the point that now that we are upgrading some of this as well and that is resulting in some additional costs in this quarter.
Okay thank you.
Just a real quick question Simon could you just tell me where the share count was at the end of the quarter if you don’t mind? Okay.
Well the average for the quarter was 1.315 billion and this is a result of what we purchased during this quarter which is 11.5 million shares.
So your question about the end of the… Yes before the end of the quarter just help me understand that? I think towards the end of the quarter I have to confirm this figure for you will be about 1.38 billion.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So Paal on the Analyst Day it certainly was clear that Schlumberger has decided that land rigs are important to furthering your technology and you just discussed the Precision deal but you acquired earlier in the year the Saxon 100% of Saxon so can you talk about how that differs and the thoughts there in being able to integrate the rig with the bottom hole assembly and the timelines actually develop a newly designed rig and how many rigs that you actually put into the market over the next three years? Well if I first address the alliance with Precision versus the acquisition of Saxon so Saxon is generally focused on the international market.
And that’s the mean that we are going to use to pursue the international well construction market.
As of now we have decided to pursue the North America well construction market more through alliances and that’s where the Precision Drilling alliance comes into play.
So in terms of our investment into new rig technologies that is something we are just starting so that’s going to obviously take a little bit of time before we have something to put into the market.
So I can’t give you a specific number of how many rigs we will put in to the market but that will be when the rig is ready.
And we will then just gradually add capacity as we have viable work for these type of rigs going forward.
So we have two different strategies one is for North America through the Precision Drilling type of an alliance and through our own rigs in the international market.
That’s quite fair enough.
And then on China you hit on it on your opening comments but clearly things have changed here with the recent events with the corruption of CNBC and a slowdown of PetroChina so has that just changed your near-term outlook for China or your long-term outlook as well.
And now do you believe it could be difficult for the independent Chinese oil service companies to succeed in the region? Well I can’t really comment on how it’s going to be for the independent Chinese companies but I would say that the main thing that is changing for us is the short-term.
We are still very bullish on the medium to long-term growth prospects in China.
We are very well setup in China to be part of that through our technology and integration capabilities.
So as these processes continue and hopefully draw to a conclusion over the next couple of quarters we see growth being tempered but beyond that I am very bullish on China going forward.
Okay.
Thanks.
I will turn it over.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Paal if I could return to the Precision in North America strategy question a little bit and maybe ask you to address it within the context of the joint venture that you did last year with Forest in the Eagle Ford my understanding of that venture was that it was really about establishing a business model in the U.S.
of integrated services and control of project can you contrast that versus what we are seeing now in the Precision arrangement which looks more like Schlumberger as a supplier or vendor to general contractor? I think these are two different things.
So within IPM we have two different business models one is well construction and one is production management.
And the Forest deal we did is a production management type of deal where we are paid on a feet per barrel while the alliance with Precision is more along the well construction lines right.
So in some cases we end up being the general contractor and we either own the rig or rent the rig and deploy our services through that or in the case with Precision Drilling we will be renting them our downhole equipment while they are the general contractor.
So these are different permutations of the well construction model.
Thank you for the clarification.
That helps.
Simon if I could ask a quick one for you on Venezuela and the Bolivar exposure.
Paal in his prepared comments talked about the good performance even on DSOs.
Can you talk about what the currency impacts are there and what they might be here in the third quarter? So in the third quarter we don’t – I mean in the third quarter our assumption that the exchange rate for the Bolivar will continue at the same rate that we are using today.
And this is 6.3 Bolivar is to a dollar.
Some of our revenues are in Bolivars and obviously the receivables some of the outstanding receivables are also in Bolivars.
If the exchange rate will change will definitely impact us I don’t know to what extent the exchange rate will change.
We know about the different exchange rates that are being used and we simulate our results on the various exchange rates but for the time being our Q3 assumption that there will be no change.
No change okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
If we could shift to Latin America Mexico first if I could revenues were down.
We all know what’s kind of going on in Mexico you have won some projects you mentioned you had some rigs down in the IPM project in the south.
Can you kind of walk us through the next 18 months of what you expect to see happen in Mexico? 18 months is a long time Jim.
But let’s start off with H2 so we see activity picking up in the second half of the year and that’s going to be primarily in marine but also in the north.
We have had in addition to the mega-tender also several service contract wins in marine and in the south which is going to give us further market share gains.
So this year is still impacted by the budget constraints of Pemex.
So as we work through that we still see growth in the second half of the year but I believe most of these budget constraints as well as the rig shutdowns will be sorted out over the next one to two quarters.
So while I expect growth in the second half of the year I am still a lot more optimistic about 2015 and hope that we can get back on track to have a really good year next year in Mexico.
Through 2015 covers my 18 months I appreciate that.
Now can you do the same thing for me for Brazil considering the drilling contractors now being re-tendered do we expect that really to switch over at the end of the year? And what’s the implication for your idle equipment in Brazil if that happens? First of all we don’t have any idle equipment in Brazil.
We don’t hold idle equipment around in various countries.
If it is idle we put it into the pool and put it to use.
But in Brazil this year is obviously significantly down both due to pricing and significantly lower activity.
There might be some uptick in 2015 but I am not as optimistic on the improvement in 2015 in Brazil as I am in Mexico.
I think we will see improvements in activity partly due to the drilling activity surrounding around 11 exploration awards which is going to start for some of the IOCs in 2015.
And there could also be a chance that Petrobras will increase some of their activity but I am a bit more guarded on how great 2015 will be in Brazil until these two contracts that are now tendered I expect them to be quite competitive to bid again I don’t think there is going to be any dramatic change to that now.
We will see what happens.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Becker from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I want to circle back on North America first quarter was impacted by weather we saw second quarter impacted by some of the supply chain sand labor issues.
Just any quantification in terms of what type of impact we have here that would be outside the norm? I can’t give you that like I reviewed in the – I think the first question from Ole there is a lot of moving parts from our supply chain has some impact but there is a lot of other moving parts that I just reviewed.
So I can’t break it down for you but with all the moving parts 53 basis points down isn’t dramatic.
And we are quite confident that we can improve margins going forward from this point.
Sure.
Maybe just order of impact between supply chain sand labor just….
I am not going to break it down any further.
Okay.
And then just circling back on Latin America just an update on the mobilization for the mega-tenders is that on pace to be complete this year or do we actually maybe see some margin improvement in the fourth quarter as that winds down? No we are on track with mobilization for that.
So a fair bit of the equipment that we needed for those contracts we already had in country.
So at this stage we are operating 10 rigs across three projects for the mega-tenders.
This was probably gradual increase in the second half of the year but I don’t expect any significant negative margin impact for the mobilization.
So we should see progress from this point.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Question with regard to international revenue outlook for the second half of the year first half broadly speaking we were up about 5% year-over-year what do you think would be a reasonable expectation for second half on a year-over-year basis? Well if you correct for Framo which was counted as revenue in H1 of last year and obviously now as the minority interest in OneSubsea this year our international revenue was up 7% in H1.
Okay.
And we expect that at least to continue in the second half of the year.
Okay.
And a similar question incremental margins were about 75% year-over-year I mean stunningly strong I expect in the moderate for the second half of the year but I guess the question is I know your target for 2017 on a consolidated basis is 40% but it just seems to be that the execution is generating considerably stronger incrementals than frankly most seasoned observers have been expecting.
Well was there a question or? I guess the observation and the question is the sustainability what we are seeing in the first half I mean I am modeling a considerable moderation and that’s what the Street estimates convey and yet you continue to outperform markedly on that front? Fair enough so H1 like you said I think we are about 65% incremental.
So I can give say – it’s fair to say that there might be some moderation in there in the second half of the year.
Now we are working very hard on keeping these incrementals up and the strength of our position internationally should allow us to have higher incremental margin spend and obviously what we see in North America.
Whether it’s going to go down from the 65% potentially it should but we are going to do our best to keep it as high as possible.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Tillery from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt</strong> Hi good morning.
Just wanted to follow-up on North Americas and outside of the supply chain side you mentioned on-boarding on some of the acquired companies so if you can just talk about artificial lift business in aggregate I mean a dozen different companies in rod lift I mean where are you in the continuing of kind of bringing everything to some sort of standardization or giving your manufacturing and operational efficiency where you want to be and what sort of timeline would you think that occurs on? Well it’s a good question.
So we are in the early phases of bringing everything together.
So we are not looking to integrate each of these 12 13 companies into one one completely unified entity they are working in different basins.
They all have their individual setups.
But we are looking to consolidate supply chain as much as possible and also take the best practices from the individual companies and try to populate them across all the different companies.
So this is going to be done gradually and I still think it’s going to take us probably a good 12 to 18 months to get everything setup exactly the way we want.
But these companies are well run.
It is a different business that what we have been in the past and we are also partly learning some of these things as we go into it.
But I would say it probably will take us at least another 12 months to get this setup up exactly the way we wanted.
Pickering Holt</strong> And then you had referred on the last conference call to I mean you have to be in the game in order to change it from a technology standpoint is there – how should we think about that timeline for introducing new technology in that business that occurred – does that come post that 12 months period or should we look for some markers here interim? Now what we are gradually doing now is to bring our ESP business closer together to these rod pump companies because we still believe that there is a period of utilization for different type of lift solutions throughout the life of the well.
So by having a very good footprint when it comes to rod pump market share it should be easier for us to penetrate this market in the early phase of the wells before you put the rod pump on the well with our ESP.
So the first step in getting more technology into this is to increase the penetration of ESPs on that rod pump footprint.
Pickering Holt</strong> Thank you very much Paal.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Waqar Syed from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Paal maybe in some comments out of some major operators in the Norwegian area about maybe relooking at their capital spending what’s your outlook for Norway for the second half and maybe more also in the ‘15 – into the ’15? Well if you focus on H2 I mean for the summer months we expect a normal impact from the rig maintenance both in the UK and Norway.
But as of now we have a solid activity outlook for the remaining part of the year in Norway.
We have some good contract wins recently.
There is some other work that is out for bid that will probably be awarded relatively soon.
Some of these contracts are key for us.
So we are hopeful that we will be successful in winning them.
So I think overall I am positive on the activity outlook for Norway for the second half of the year.
Okay.
And then I am curious there are some important drilling going on are there any discussions going on regarding anything follow-up beyond the first well right now or is it too early to have that till we see the results from the first well? You are talking about Russia? Yes that’s right.
I don’t know the detail of the specific value you are referring to but I am aware that there is good activity in the Arctic in the second half of this year.
Going into 2015 I don’t have any detailed visibility yet but there is strong focus on advancing both these exploration and development programs in the Arctic in Russia and we are actively participating in that.
Thank you very much.
That’s all I have.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Handler from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Couple of questions related to seismic please.
Obviously you have laid out your macro view and that’s very helpful but noted that multi-client sales in the second quarter were particularly soft I guess they haven’t been this soft in a few years and I am curious if you can put that into some greater context for us and give us a sense of if that has implications for reviews on the fourth quarter which is obviously where it’s seasonally strongest generally? And then secondly just perhaps overall for the year I think you signaled that you expect that seismic to be down for the industry but I am not as clear if that’s what you expect for yourselves as well or are some things like isometrics and other factors helping you out on a relative basis? Okay.
If we start with multi-client like you said multi-client revenue in Q2 was weak than we expected at $133 million.
This is down 47% year-on-year which is quite significant.
It is not surprising that multi-client revenue falls when there is basically added scrutiny on exploration and seismic spend but we are now at the lowest level that we have seen since 2009 just following the financial crisis right but we manage to absorb that reduction in the second quarter and still deliver on the quarter which I am pleased with.
In terms of the rest of the year I expect Q3 to be fairly similar to Q2 I don’t expect any significant improvement.
There should be a year end effect.
It might not be as high as what we saw in 2013 but I still expect there to be a surge towards toward year end but potentially lower.
In terms of the overall outlook for seismic for us we also expected to be down in terms of overall revenue for this year and is driven then partly by multi-client and also through marine where we at this stage have gone from 15 vessels at the beginning of the year down to 13 vessels at the end of Q2.
And we plan to reduce also down to 12 vessels in Q4.
So we are doing this to maintain profitability and utilization and we will continue to look at further vessels tax if it’s necessary.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Paal I wanted to ask you just quickly on your offshore revenue growth outlook here I mean clearly the offshore revenue component is very important for Schlumberger just how are you seeing the unfold here versus maybe where you were at the beginning of the year given the fact that we have certainly seen some utilization challenges on the floater side as new capacity has come into the market and certainly you mentioned again the demand waning here on the IOC side.
Has there been any material changes as you think about revenue growth here for you what should the market externally look at I mean because clearly we see the utilization numbers and we are able to track that we know day rates have come down significantly.
We know you have got share opportunities here that you are gaining I mean how do we think about the offshore revenue stream for Schlumberger? Well if you look at the international market so far this year we have seen about 6% growth in rig count on land as well as 6% growth in rig count for the conventional offshore.
Deepwater is basically two stories.
You have Brazil which is down about 27% year-to-date while the rest of the world is also up about 6% which is similar to the conventionally offshore.
So there is really no change to what we expected going into the year.
We had factored into our deepwater plans some lower utilizations as we were expecting these commercial discussions on rig rates to lead to lower utilization.
Some of these discussions have concluded actually quicker than what we thought.
Then I think that has the positive impact on the utilization versus what we assumed but really nothing dramatic.
We expected Brazil to be down significantly and the rest of offshore to continue to grow at the solid pace and 6% is we consider that quite good.
Okay.
So the rate of growth really nothing has changed.
Yes.
Okay.
I appreciate the time.
I will turn it back.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Just a quick follow-up.
Simon can you give us a breakdown of how much of the 16% growth year-on-year North America was organic versus the acquired companies? Well Michael we obviously have these numbers but we are not going to disclose all of these details.
Okay thank you.
Thanks.
And your final question today comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie from IBERIA Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I guess I got a little bit of a different question for you on the lift business than what you had so far.
My question is centered around your view of where that business develops over time because clearly obviously buying rod lift companies and the dumb iron if you will associated with that is not something that is – something Schlumberger has typically been interested in the past? Is there another angle here we should be looking at namely perhaps making it more of a service delivery business through the life of the field versus just a pure equipment sale business? What’s your vision for where that segment goes? It’s a very good question.
So I think there are two things to be said about that.
Firstly I think over time there are things that could be done to advance the technology that is used.
Now I think you will be needing a range of technologies because the flow rates of these wells they vary gradually with time.
So – but I think there are things that could be done both on the ESP side and on the PCP rod lift side which we are working on.
So that’s on the technology itself.
But the other part is the business model like you allude to.
And our view of this for the future would be that we potentially ultimately can sell lift.
So we will take on the well and we will basically have a business model where we are paid on production for off time and our ability to maximize production through the optimal lift solution for the well.
So that is our view on the future.
That’s why we are getting into this.
And again changing changing the game will have to be done from within.
Rod pumps are going to be key in this based on the installed base in North America land but I think there is opportunity to optimize the technology and there is also a very good opportunity to potentially change the business model over time.
Great.
How would you help us thinking about how that trajectory looks how long it takes pace of adoption and so on an so forth? Well it’s a bit difficult to predict on that Rob.
What we are focusing on now is to basically consolidate all these companies that we have both gain a further understanding of the market and get closer to this part of our customer base which we haven’t worked on – worked with closely in the past.
And I think as we do that and establish ourselves as a credible player in this market which I think we can do relatively quickly I think our chances of starting to change this business model say over the next one to two years should be there.
Great thank you very much.
Thank you.
Okay.
That’s all the time we have for questions today.
Now on behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today’s call.
Greg will you now please provide the closing comments? Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 9 AM Central Time today through August 18.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 325481 international participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 325481.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given to you at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited third quarter 2014 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from New York where the Schlumberger Limited Board meeting took place yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information are included in the earnings press release on our website.
We welcome your questions after our prepared segments.
Please limit to one question and a related follow-up.
I will now turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Third quarter earnings per share from continuing operations was $1.49.
This is an increase of $0.12 sequentially and is $0.20 higher when compared to the same quarter last year and represents increases of 9% and 16% respectively.
Third quarter revenue of $12.6 billion increased 4.9% sequentially.
Pretax operating income increased 7.1% sequentially while pretax operating margins improved 45 basis points to 22.2%.
Sequential highlights by product group were as follows.
Reservoir Characterization revenue of $3.2 billion increased 2.9% while margin improved by 29 basis points to 30%.
This growth was driven by a very strong performance in testing services improved WesternGeco marine utilization and an increase in SIS software sales.
These increases were offset in part by lower multiclient sites.
Drilling Group revenue of $4.8 billion increased 3.6% and margins improved by 60 basis points to 21.7%.
These increases were largely attributable to robust drilling and measurement activity in offshore North America Latin America and Russia and strong IPM activity in Mexico.
The second quarter acquisition of Saxon also contributed to the revenue growth.
Production Group revenue of $4.7 billion increased 8.1%.
This growth was led by well services largely as a result of the rebound from the spring breakup in Canada and a strong performance on US land.
An increase in completion of product sales in Latin America and the Middle East and Asia and expanding artificial lift sales in North America also contributed to the growth.
Margin expanded by 158 basis points to 18.3% primarily as a result of the rebound from the Canadian spring breakup as well as from improved efficiency and recovery of logistical cost in well services.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate was 22.1% in the third quarter compared to 21.7% in the previous quarter.
During the quarter we generated $3.1 billion of cash flow from operations.
For the first nine months of this year we have generated $7.3 billion of cash flow from operations.
This compares to $6.6 billion for the same nine months of 2013.
As we mentioned starting last quarter we began to report SPM investment separately in our cash flow statement similar to the way we report CapEx and multiclient.
While this change has no impact on our free cash flow it does result in an increase in the amount of cash flow from operations that we report.
The 2013 cash flow from operations figure has been restated to reflect this change.
Net debt decreased $221 million during the quarter to $5.8 billion.
Significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.5 billion of stock repurchases $519 million of dividend payments and $980 million of CapEx excluding multiclient and SPM.
During the quarter we repurchased 13.9 million shares at an average price of $108.41.
CapEx excluding multiclient and SPM is still expected to be approximately $3.8 billion in 2014 as compared to the $3.9 billion we spent in 2013.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon and good morning everyone.
Our third quarter results set a new record for Schlumberger driven by North America and further backed by robust international performance.
In the international markets growth was led by Latin America and Europe CIS and Africa in spite of headwinds in Russia and Libya while Middle East and Asia proved highly resilient in the face of a significant slowdown in Northern Iraq.
Third quarter revenue grew 5% sequentially and 9% year-on-year while pretax operating income increased 7% sequentially and 12% year-on-year.
Several factors contributed to this performance including continued market penetration of new technologies that helped further drive our international margins as well as margin gains in North America from operational efficiency and market share improvements.
Overall our performance demonstrated the advantage of size and the benefit of a broad technology offering and operational footprint while providing further proof of our leadership in technology reliability efficiency and integration.
In terms of our financial performance we generated more than $1.8 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter bringing the year-to-date total up to $3.7 billion.
This represents a 29% increase over the comparable period in 2013 and a conversion of 93% of our third quarter earnings into free cash flow.
Based on our improved ability to generate free cash we continued our active stock buyback program during the quarter buying back $1.5 billion of stock which puts us firmly on track to complete our $10 billion buyback program within the stated two-and-a-half year period.
Looking at the operating areas our North American results set a new record with revenue up 9% sequentially and 18% year-over-year while margins increased by 137 basis points to reach 19.4%.
This is in spite of headwinds from heavy rainfall in the Permian Basin that limited land activity in the US loop currents that slowed offshore activity in the Gulf of Mexico and very low multiclient seismic sales.
In Canada activity rebounded well after the spring break up in the second quarter.
And this together with a further increase in land activity in the US helped generate record land revenue representing a 9% increase sequentially.
Much of this increase came from hydraulic fracturing operations where stage counts were higher where we also obtained improved cost recovery from our customers and where we saw strong performance from our supply chain and distribution organization following the challenges we experienced in Q2.
Offshore revenue improved by 12% sequentially driven by strong activity in Eastern Canada and by market share gains in drilling services in the Gulf of Mexico.
North America also benefited from further growth and expansion of our artificial lift business and I will return to this growth initiative later in the call.
Our international business posted strong results again in the third quarter with a 3% sequential increase in revenue and with pretax operating margin expanding 55 basis points to 24.6% which is the highest level seen in five years in spite of the geopolitical headwinds experienced in Russia Northern Iraq and Libya.
Compared to the third quarter of last year international revenue was up 5% on the back of strong growth in key markets in Latin America Sub-Saharan Africa Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates and Australia and with strong incremental margins at 50%.
In terms of pricing the international market remains highly competitive for basic services and we see no sign of any general pricing inflection.
However we continue to be able to drive effective pricing through sale of new and unique technology together with continued growth in integration and performance-based contracts.
This combination puts us in a very strong competitive position which we continue to leverage to drive market share gains and expand operating margins.
Within the international areas revenue in Latin America was up by a strong 10% sequentially with margins increasing to 21.9% and with all geo markets recording growth.
Compared to the third quarter last year Latin America revenue was up 5% driven by Argentina Venezuela Colombia and Ecuador with moderate growth in Mexico and lower revenues in Brazil.
Pretax operating income also increased year-over-year driven by strong activity throughout our broad and diverse contracts portfolio as well as through careful cost and resource management.
In Argentina strong sequential growth was driven by rig-based activity for development of both conventional and unconventional resources.
Customers are now seeing clear results from applying our industry-leading shale workflows and technologies in terms of both increased production and greater efficiency.
In Mexico revenue grew on higher IPM project work on land resolution of the social issues related to our project in the south in addition to stronger deporter activity.
As the energy reform continues to move ahead we won a significant multi-year contract to build and manage a national data repository and to prepare data rooms that will be needed for the country's first public oil tenders next year.
In Venezuela activity increased further in the third quarter supported by strong uptake of new technology while payments continue to be made in line with the signed agreements.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue grew 1% sequentially while margins improved by 132 basis points to 23.4% as exploration activities strengthen in Angola and new projects started in other parts of Sub-Saharan Africa.
Compared to the same quarter last year revenue grew by 4% and margins were up by 103 basis points.
Activity in Russia benefited from a strong summer season particularly offshore Sakhalin and in the Arctic but growth was tempered by the impact of international sanctions.
Earlier in the third quarter we announced the likely effects of sanctions on our results in Russia and this ultimately translated into a $0.02 impact coming from restructuring costs to remaining compliance and some impact from activity and a weaker ruble.
In other parts of the Europe CIS and Africa area activity was mixed in the North Sea with increased software sales in the UK but lower activity in Norway as peak seismic and drilling activity ended.
In North Africa significant operational delays were experienced in Nigeria and activity slowed in Tunisia ahead of the November election.
Operations in Libya continues to be challenging with a complex security situation and with activity remaining at the minimal level.
We are currently carefully evaluating our operational structure in the country and will resize resources in accordance with the 2015 activity outlook.
On the positive side however we remain active offshore and we continue to have a constructive view on the long-term potential of the country.
In the Middle East and Asia area revenue was essentially flat with the previous quarter with margins stable at 27.6% as growth in Saudi Arabia and Oman offset lower revenue in Iraq and India and with activity in Asia largely unchanged from the second quarter.
Year-on-year revenue increased by 6% and margins grew by 149 basis points.
In the Middle East activity growth was strongest in Saudi Arabia with new rigs mobilizing exploration activity strengthening and development drilling increasing.
We have added resources to match the additional work in the country and we expect to see further increases in activity as more drilling rigs are added and rig-less activity continued to expand.
We also saw solid growth in Oman with strong artificial lift product sales and market share gains in drilling services.
Elsewhere in the Middle East activity was lower in India on lower product sales and the effects of the monsoon season.
Activity was also lower in Northern Iraq as unrest in the area increased and forced a complete shutdown of our operations for part of the third quarter.
The security situation has improved more recently and rigs are slowly returning to work.
In Southern Iraq there was no security impact on our operations in the third quarter but activity remains lower compared to the same quarter last year as new contract awards continue to be delayed.
With government approvals our new contract award is still pending.
We do not expect any significant improvement in activity in the near term.
Southeast Asia revenue was also flat for the second quarter as activity slowdowns in Australia and lack of exploration success in Malaysia and Thailand were offset by stronger activity in Vietnam marine seismic work in Brunei and improved product sales in other Asia geo markets.
China saw a sequential growth in shale gas development on land together with continuing strong activity offshore in Bohai Bay.
Elsewhere in China activity continued to be slow and we do not see further growth until our customers' spending plans become clearer.
I would now like to update you on the progress we have made in our artificial lift business since we outlined our growth strategy for this market in New York in June.
First in addition to our existing basin coverage in North America established through an active M&amp;A program over the past year we have in the third quarter completed several new acquisitions to further expand our operational footprint in Canada.
Second in line with our goal of optimizing cost efficiency and reliability we have injected additional supply chain engineering and manufacturing capabilities to our road lift organization to drive additional value from the signed quality assurance sourcing and distribution.
Third in order to address the growing market for LIVE for well lift solutions in the unconventional market we have combined all Schlumberger artificial lift technologies in North America into a single organization that will cover ESP PCP gas lift and rod lift systems.
This has given us one customer-facing organization with a complete technical portfolio capable of recognizing business opportunities throughout the entire spectrum of the artificial lift market.
Integration of the various components of this organization is progressing very well with our ultimate goal being to offer our customers a complete range of industry-leading technology together with best-in-class local service.
We remain on track to sell more than 7 000 pump jacks and installing over 5 000 PCPs in 2014 in North America.
And through the careful execution of our growth strategy over the past year we have now firmly assumed the leadership position in the global artificial lift market.
I would also like to give you a progress report of the transformation program we outlined in New York where we're already starting to change the way we manage our people our assets and our inventory to further improve our financial performance.
In Southeast Asia we concluded the successful piloting of a centralized asset management and maintenance facility for our Wireline product line reducing the downhole tool fleet by more than 30% compared to the previous level required to service the region.
The surplus of assets that this initiative created have already been redeployed to capture new business opportunities and support growth in other regions and our Wireline product line is in the process of expanding this model to other areas.
We have also extended the coverage of our regional distribution centers to new areas in South America resulting in an average 10% reduction in spares on hand versus 2013 for the product lines currently involved.
Worldwide coverage for spares distribution will be achieved in the coming months with the creation of a third distribution center in Rotterdam.
Implementation of revised job execution and competency assurance process also continue and is already showing notable reliability improvements.
In Wireline the systematic deployment on new standard work constructions has already in 2014 produced a 30% reduction in customer non-productive time compared to last year.
Turning now to the economic environment the outlook for global GDP growth softened somewhat during the third quarter on weaker data from Europe and China also leading to a slight downward revision of the absolute oil demand outlook.
Given the strength of the US economy and the ongoing efforts to stimulate and manage growth in Europe and China we continue to believe that the slow but steady recovery and the world economy is still intact and that the overall oil demand situation is largely unchanged.
While market sentiments are currently driven by short-term oversupply due to the continued growth in North America production we still see the supply situation as relatively well balanced given the continued challenges in the non-NAM non-OPEC production base lack of growth in OPEC's sustainable production capacity maintaining tightness in OPEC spare capacity and with the continued geopolitical risks in several key producers.
We therefore expect Brent to recover and stabilize when and at the level that is deemed appropriate by the main oil producers.
The key to the overall oil market is still that the global oil demand is currently set to increase by 1.1 million barrels per day in 2015 which will require growth in the EMP investments.
Where the growth in EMP investments will take place will be a function of what level of the oil price stabilizes at and where a lower oil price will likely lead to more of the investment taking place in lower operating cost environment.
For natural gas markets remain comfortably supplied although there's awkward pricing trends in Asia-Pacific and Europe as winter approaches.
Based on this macro setting which continues to include a mix of economic and geopolitical headwinds and tailwinds we maintained a long-term view that we outlined in June in New York believing in continued solid demand for our products services and expertise.
We also firmly believe that opportunities exist for differentiated growth through new technology and greater integration and that the transformational impact of our reliability and efficiency programs will further support and accelerate our financial outperformance.
That concludes my remarks.
Thank you.
We will now open up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Excellent execution.
I have a few questions on various technologies but I think I’m going to leave that for now.
Probably what is on everybody's minds right now is the oil balance and the tipping point in oil and where we stand the volatility has been tremendous.
I think everybody is confused about what level of CapEx will be required given what's going on in Europe and Pandora's box talking about spare capacity and how you see it.
So I wonder whether you could just expand a little bit about what gives you confidence.
Well I think if you look at what the sentiments in the market are today it is obviously driven by the fair order supply.
But if we go back to the status of the global economy yes there was a downward revision in GDP growth outlook but this was only slightly.
We're still looking at 2.7% and 3.2% growth in GDP in 2014 and 2015 and this is only 0.2% down for both years.
So like I said the overall slow but steady recovery in the global economy we believe is still intact.
Now if you look at the demand side there was a corresponding downward revision on the oil demand for both 2014 and 2015 but the key here is to look at the absolute demand because the IEA for 2014 changed both the 2013 actual demand and the updated 2014 demand.
So if we look at the 2014 absolute demand it is still at the February level and only 0.2 million barrels a day down from the July peak.
And the 2015 absolute demand is now 93.5 which is still 1.1 million barrels a day up.
So based on this we see the demand side of the oil market also as more or less unchanged.
So then what's left is to look at the real supply situation and we don't think that has changed dramatically in terms of fundamental supply capacity since Q2 as well.
And that's because there is lack of growth in OPEC sustainable production capacity.
And actually if you look at IEA report the OPEC sustainable production capacity is actually down 800 000 barrels a day in September of 2014 versus last year.
There is also continued weakness in non-NAM non-OPEC production and there is still geopolitical risk related to both Libya and Iraq.
So based on this we see the overall supply picture as more or less unchanged as well versus Q2.
So with the growth in demand for next year we believe that there has to be increased spending levels and where this spending is going to take place I think is going to be a function of where the oil price stabilizes.
At the lower oil price we believe that more of these investments will take place in lower operating cost environments.
And if the oil price stabilizes back at the levels we saw earlier this year then we might continue with a similar picture next year as we had this year.
So that's our overall view.
To summarize Paal you believe that the spare capacity in the global system today is going down for the next two years? What I would say at least it's not going up.
So far this year it's been flat.
When more production is offered into the market it is at the expense of the spare capacity.
Our next question will come from the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Paal I was hoping you could frame in light of your macro outlook perceived international opportunities and threats or headwinds and tailwinds if you will and how that at least conceptually coalesces into an outlook for next year? I mean the market of late seems to have been unduly focused on the prominent threats.
And then moreover also if you could comment on margins as well.
I was struck by how resilient your Eastern Hemisphere margins were in light of the dislocation that unfolded in the third quarter.
We are very pleased with the performance of our international business including Latin America.
So year-to-date international revenue is up by 5% which is outgrowing the growth in EMP spending in international market.
And our operating income is up 15% with incremental margins of 66%.
So today our margin stands internationally at 24.6% which is the highest level we've seen since the 2008 pre-financial crisis peak.
And I think it's important to notice as well that about 80% of our global operating income growth so far in 2014 is actually generated in the international market on a relatively low growth in EMP spend.
So if you look at what happened in 2014 like you say there was a good mix of tailwinds and headwinds.
And if you look at the tailwinds this year in terms of geographies it's been Argentina Ecuador Sub-Saharan Africa Saudi and the UAE in terms of the type of basins it's been land and conventional offshore that's been driving the growth.
And in terms of customer groups it's been independents and NOCs.
Now if you look at the flip side for the headwinds geographically it's been Brazil Mexico Libya Russia Iraq and China in term of the basins has been deepwater and exploration and in particular seismic.
And also in customer groups it's been the IOCs going from solid growth to flat spending in 2014.
Now these headwinds will make up around $1.1 billion of full year revenue reduction for us versus 2013.
So looking at our full year revenue growth for 2014 in the international market it's going to be around 5%.
And that includes absorbing all these significant headwinds.
And we've managed this growth at the same time as we have expanded margins by about 200 basis points and as I mentioned very strong incrementals.
So it really demonstrates the strength and the earnings growth resilience we have in our international business.
Now if you look at 2015 we expect that we will continue to see a mix of headwinds and tailwinds in the international market.
The tailwinds may not be as strong depending on where the EMP spend levels are but several of the headwinds will largely diminish as well.
Brazil and Mexico are likely to be tailwinds next year.
And deepwater exploration as well as Libya Iraq China should also be less of a drag than what we saw this year.
So that really leaves Russia and Asia as the main headwinds that we're going to be facing and the overall balance will become fairer in these two regions in Q4.
So still we expect to see strong earnings growth from our international business also in 2015.
Our next question will come from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Your market share gains you mentioned in Gulf of Mexico and the 12% revenue growth were impressive considering that we've all been reading and hearing about loop currents and weather and you guys had won the bad weather.
Can you talk to us a little bit about your mix your customer mix and the other things that are allowing you to do so well in the Gulf of Mexico? Jim we have a broad portfolio.
We have a good balance in the Gulf of Mexico between characterization drilling and production.
Our offshore business in North America also includes a very strong position offshore Eastern Canada which was also quite strong in Q3.
But we were impacted by the loop currents but at the same time we have a sizeable business.
And while some rigs were shut down for this there were a number of rigs continuing to operate without any impact.
So when you have a certain size and some of these events it's easier to absorb them as you go forward.
I agree completely on the outlook for spending and the need to maintain current production but clearly US independents spin-off of cash flow and so that puts the US activity probably most at risk.
I guess my question is is there a risk that pressure pumping pricing in a slower market crashes again like it did a couple of years ago or have we had enough capital discipline in the industry that that's not likely to happen? I think it's going to be a function of activity of course.
So like you say we agree that the 2015 activity it's too early to say what's going to happen.
But it is clearly going to be a function of the level of free cash flow for the EMPs which was already negative in general at the WTI of 90.
And the key going forward is going to be continued borrowing capacity.
So there's really two scenarios here that we end up with a lower WTI further cost inflation in the EMP value chain and reduced borrowing capacity and this will likely have an impact on the spending growth rates.
On the flip side if we see a recovery of the WTI and also we see a limited cost inflation in the EMP value chain I think these are the factors that would support further spending growth.
But looking at pressure pumping pricing it's going to be a function of the activity levels and how much horsepower capacity has been ordered in the past couple of quarters.
And I believe that it's a fair bit already on order.
So if the spending growth is impacted I think it can quickly put pressure on frac pricing including both sand and transportation as well.
Next we'll go to the line of James West with ISI Group.
In the release in your remarks I was struck by how many times you highlighted strength in deepwater activity and strong exploration activity particularly in deepwater drilling.
It seems like there is a big debate in the market right now about deepwater.
How do you see that activity evolving over the next year or two? Well I think if you look at first the deepwater rig supply it was at the record high in Q3.
At the same time the number of stacked rigs continued to increase.
And there's a further 10-year rigs planned for delivery in Q4.
So I think it's very clear that we are in oversupply situation of deepwater rigs at this stage.
Now if you look at deepwater drilling which is really where we make most of our revenue this year we expect to see a 6% decline in drilling rig activity for deepwater.
Now this decline is mainly driven by Brazil which is down about over 30% and partially offset by the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa.
So when you exclude Brazil deepwater drilling is actually up about 3% versus 2013.
So looking forward to 2015 we see flattish deepwater drilling activity in 2015 generally supported by lower rig rates.
So we've weathered I think a fairly significant deepwater decline this year and we expect it to be more or less flattish going forward into next year.
A lot of the commentary was around deepwater exploratory wells.
Has your percentage of wells that you're working on a deepwater on the exploration side decreased is it steady is it increasing? If you look at the overall exploration market and the exploration spend we expect now that the 2014 exploration spend will be down 45% versus last year.
And this spend reduction is mainly led by seismic which would be down more than 20% while the exploration drilling is only slightly down.
So I would say that the market is down overall but the main driver for the reduction in exploration spend is predominantly seismic.
Our next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita with UBS.
Nice to see that big $1.5 billion buyback.
As a follow-up to one of the earlier questions on pressure pumping and the just the soft North America and obviously its influx I do believe that Schlumberger was considering building incremental new build capacity for 2015 given the market dynamics.
How do you feel on that now? Is that on hold? What are your thoughts? Well we have a pretty sizeable pressure pumping business which is including both North America and international.
So we have made some orders for new pumps.
We still have some pumps left in the idle asset program.
But we made some orders for new pumps by the level that it doesn't really worry me.
These new pumps will be distributed in between North America and international.
And we've had fairly significant growth both in Argentina and Saudi Arabia over the past six to 12 months.
So the orders that we've made is generally what we want to have on order in terms of long lead items to make sure that we can cover the business in any eventuality.
Obviously the Middle East is very strong particularly the Saudi.
But just theoretically in the Middle East overall excluding Iraq of course where do you think Brent would need to be for them to begin to slow their drilling activities where they start to become uncomfortable? I know obviously they're drilling both for gas and for oil.
I'm not going to make any predictions at what level the Saudis would change what they're doing.
We have a very strong business in Saudi Arabia.
Growth has been very strong this year.
And as of now we continue to expect solid growth in Saudi Arabia next year as well.
Our next question will come from the line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
Paal you mentioned the potential for inflation in frac value chain in US onshore.
And I was just curious given that most of that is now being driven by sand and transportation and distribution related to sand how is that impacting the market for highway and broadband? Well I think there's no real impact from these things in particular to broadband and highway.
I think the escalating cost of transportation and sand at this stage I think is something that all the players are looking to pass on to the customers.
I think there's going to be a limit to how much of these additional cost escalation that our customers are prepared to take given their free cash flow situation and also given the drop in oil prices.
But there is no relative impact on these cost escalations on either broadband or highway.
Well I was thinking more from a marketing standpoint if the sand availability would actually push customers to look for productivity improving alternatives such as highway and broadband? Yes we do use less sand in highway in particular.
So that is obviously a selling point.
But it is more a function of what the philosophy of the customer is.
Do they want to go with a slickwater frac which generally now has a lot higher volume of proppant or they go to a more cross-linked or highway type of frac in which case the proppant volume is significantly less.
And are you seeing a shift in trend one versus the other materially over the last couple of quarters? Not materially.
Highway continues to do very well.
And I'm actually very pleased with how broadband is going.
Broadband at this stage of its introduction is growing significantly faster than what highway did back in 2011/2012.
And we are now continuing to engage in broadband I would say presentations and broadband sales and information at the sea level of our customers.
So we engage at that level to establish a very clear understanding of what this technology brings and also to try to agree on pilot programs and evaluation of these pilot programs over a period of time.
Our next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC.
I wanted to follow up in particular on two things.
You mentioned cost recovery dynamics that have been underway in the North American market.
Do you feel that you're at a point now where you'll be able to get some net margin accretion going forward or is it still just offset to the cost inflation? I still think in terms of price increases with our customers we're generally looking to recover the cost inflation that we're seeing.
Like we said before we believe that the main way of driving margins in the North America pressure pumping business will be through efficiency and through introduction of new technologies that increases production or lowers cost or improves efficiency.
So the main focus that we have now is to pass on the cost inflation that we have from our supply chain to our customers.
And like I said given the state of the free cash flow and where the oil price is I think the appetite from our customers will be lower in terms of how much of the further cost increases they're willing to take.
In terms of the challenges that occurred during the course of the third quarter that resulted in that announcement that the earnings would be impacted by $0.02 to $0.03 and the comment that you made about being a $0.02 impact in particular what kind of lingering effect do you expect from Russia and maybe Libya going out into the fourth quarter? If you look at Q4 as a whole this year we expect sequential growth in earnings per share probably around $0.05 to $0.07.
That's our target.
This is somewhat lower than the sequential increases we normally see in Q4.
And there's really two primary reasons for that.
One as you alluded to we expect to see a continued impact from the situations in Libya Iraq and Russia and in particular the ruble effect in Russia is potentially going to be higher in Q4 than what we saw in Q3.
The second main factor is the cost focus that our customers have which is likely going to lead to lower levels of year-end sales including both software products but in particular multiclient.
Still the base business should continue to be solid driven by both North America Latin America and the Middle East but somewhat lower sequential growth in earnings per share in Q4 this year than what we normally see.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
I think one of the things that's been a surprise to many is how much supply growth we see in that region.
At a time when seems like you and others are really contracting in the area and there is very little service activity going on just given your macro thoughts so far during the call what are your views in terms of sustainability of Libyan production here given there's ramp-down in activity? And I guess what's the trigger point for you to make a decision on whether or not you start to cut headcount there and is that strictly going to be just on land side or is that going to be offshore as well? In terms of our resource base that's something that we continue to look at in any country that we're in.
Offshore we're currently operating one rig.
There might be another couple of rigs added in the next couple of quarters but that's not a significant part of the headcount that is related to the offshore activity.
The main headcount is focused on the land business.
And the land business is as I said at the minimal level.
So we are currently looking at what the outlook for 2015 is.
Q3 of 2014 is about 50% down in activity in Libya compared to what we saw in Q3 of last year.
And that low activity in our mind if it's not changed we'd obviously have an impact on the sustainable production capacity of Libya going forward.
So the fact that Libya which I think in OPEC now is listed as about 900 000 but obviously the key to maintain that production capacity is to continuously invest into it.
You mentioned Brazil now as a tailwind for next year.
I know there's a Wireline services contract that's pending.
Can you talk about timing on that? And would that be incremental to Schlumberger or is that strictly just a re-tender here of an existing contract? Well the two main contracts that have been out for tender recently have been the Wireline services one and the directional drilling (inaudible) contract.
We maintain the market share we had in both contracts.
We had the largest lot in Wireline and the middle lot in drilling and measurement which we see as good because it basically prevents us from having any significant mobilization or demobilization cost which are always key to the profitability of these types of contracts.
And both of those contracts we got quite reasonable price increases while we maintain our market share.
So activity-wise or market share-wise no change for us but the pricing and really no additional cost of mobilizing or demobilizing.
So I would say that these contracts are incremental to Schlumberger in 2015.
I expect the contracts to be finalized over the next couple of quarters.
Our next question will come from the line of Jeff Tillery with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt</strong> In talking about the exploration results for you all obviously seismic is down but in the release several times the success in Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa specifically there's been tailwinds for margins.
Just given the customer degree of exploration success this year how does that impact your view of say the next 12 to 15 months just specifically in terms of how it could impact the ECA region? I agree with you.
The exploration success both in 2013 and 2014 has been relatively poor which I think is part of the reason why a number of customers are taking a step back and reevaluating their prospects and then how they're going to go about doing this.
So like I said we see exploration spend this year being down 4% to 5% driven by seismic.
But looking towards 2015 we expect exploration spend to be flattish to only slightly down.
And again this is going to be driven by seismic.
So we continue to see good exploration drilling activity and the main thing impacting exploration spend is still going to be seismic next year.
Pickering Holt</strong> The success you're having in bucking the overall trend how much of the integration that you discussed back in June is a driving force in that? Well I think the impact of the whole range of transformation of efforts that we're doing as well as new technology and as well as our integration capabilities all of these elements are key factors that allows us to produce outstanding results in particular in the international market.
And we expect that strength to continue to grow and expand going forward as we further implement these transformational programs.
Our next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo.
In Norway you've had StatOil who is starting to scale back activity and now you add on to that.
You got a little bit lower commodity prices.
I'd be curious to know how you see that market playing out maybe over the next one to two years with commodity prices as a headwind and StatOil kind of suffering through some cost overruns.
In terms of what the commodity price is going to be I think it's too early to say what level it's going to be at in 2015.
Obviously there's been a sharp drop over the past two to four weeks.
How this is going to evolve I think is still highly uncertain and I still believe that there's going to be some kind of recovery happening.
Now rate into the North Sea we still see low single-digit growth in activity for our North Sea geo market in 2015.
And you got to break that down into three.
First in Norway we expect to see lower exploration activity and flat development activity.
In the UK we actually expect to see somewhat higher exploration activity next year and still flat development activity.
And in addition to this other in North Sea geo market we continue to manage somewhat the remote activities and there's strong remote activity next year.
We have project in the Canaries.
We have a project in Cyprus.
And we also have a project in Mauritania that we manage out of the North Sea.
So overall for that business unit and the assets and the resources we have in the North Sea we see still some growth in 2015.
You noted all the various headwinds and tailwinds internationally for 2015.
It looks like and you've alluded to this Latin America is poised to finally show a nice recovery.
Knowing what you know today will Latin America be your best growth market in 2015 versus even the Middle East and Asia? Well I think it's still too early to say.
But if you look at the trends that we saw in Q3 we are clearly seeing the recovery of Latin America with good growth in pretty much every geo market.
So I'm quite optimistic about what Latin America can do next year.
And one thing is the revenue growth.
The other thing is the pretax operating income growth.
And I would say for next year I'm quite optimistic at this stage still on Latin America in terms of growing earnings and similarly also for Europe Africa as well as the Middle East.
So those will still I think be the three main drivers of earnings growth in the international market next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
I'd like to come back to your artificial lift initiative.
Maybe as a grounding for us can you ballpark the revenue contribution that you've acquired just in terms of framing for us your starting point for growth? I can but I won't.
If you want to try to make some interpretation we gave you some numbers on installations of pump jacks and PCPs.
It might not be easily transferrable to revenue but we've had a big program.
We bought a number of smaller companies.
And it has a reasonable contribution to North America and also to our overall artificial lift position.
But I'm not going to break out and give you a specific revenue number.
In an environment if there's a somewhat lower commodity price what is your sense of the impact on artificial lift on the production side of the business maybe a little bit more broadly presumably in the North America market? Well for the overall production business in the event that activity is down in North America any part of the business might have challenges and pressure on pricing.
I think again where you'll see it the fastest and the most will likely be in pressure pumping.
In terms of artificial lift we have not seen the same uptick in pricing when activity is very high and I don't expect to see the same kind of pressure there as well.
But any flattening of growth or reduction in activity will likely have an impact on pricing in any product line.
But I think it's way too early to say even for North America whether we will be in that situation in 2015.
Our final question comes from the line of Scott Gruber with Citi.
Another scenario if crude prices stay low your project management businesses both drilling and production should be real differentiators.
How bigger are these businesses as a percentage of revenue now and given the contract backlog what's the growth outlook for '15? We're not breaking out these numbers.
Other than that we've given some indication of how much our integration related business is.
That's not all project management or production management.
That's any type of integration.
In a more challenging environment the ability to take on projects and provide more integration to drive value will be a competitive strength.
And I believe that there's some flex in how you pursue with your internal transformation given market dynamics.
So if we paint a scenario where upstream CapEx flattens and the expectation is flat for a few years can you provide some color on what changes you make to your program and how quickly you think you can achieve some of your targets realizing that some are partially dependent upon customer acceptance of your tools? How quickly do you think you can accelerate some of those changes? We have some discretion as to what we can accelerate in terms of the implementation but some of these things are also based on the overall schedule that we've laid out and things that we have to develop in order to roll them out.
But yes there is some flexibility of accelerating investment and implementation in terms of part of the transformation.
And these are things we are actually looking at now.
We laid out our financial targets for 2017 in June in New York.
And they were predicated on macro and industry assumptions.
And if these assumptions end up being optimistic we will see what we can do internally to still be within the ranges that we've given or at least close to them even if the macro assumptions are below.
I can't promise that we will do it but that's obviously going to be the ambition.
So new technology introductions new technology sales and acceleration of transformation programs are going to be key drivers that potentially would allow us to do that.
And with that I'd like to turn it back over to Mr.
Farrant for any closing comments.
Well that's all the time we have for questions today.
Now on behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating.
And Cynthia will provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be available for replay after 9 AM today until Midnight November 17th.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 332340.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again 800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 and enter the access code of 332340.
That does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited fourth quarter and full quarter 2014 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from Houston where the Schlumberger Limited Board meeting took place yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chief Executive Officer; and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind the participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information is included in the earnings press release on our website.
We welcome your comments after the prepared segments.
I will now turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $1.50.
This represents an increase of $0.01 sequentially and is $0.15 higher when compared to the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we recorded $1.8 billion of pretax charges.
These charges are primarily related to actions we have taken to meet the challenges of the current market conditions.
The $806 million of charges relating to the restructuring of the WesternGeco seismic fleet are as we announced last month.
We recorded $296 million of severance cost associated with the headcount reduction of approximately 9 000.
This reduction which will largely be completed by the end of the first quarter will bring our headcount more in line with the currently anticipated activity levels.
In Venezuela effective December 31 2014 we changed the exchange rate we applied to our bolivar denominated transactions from 6.3 to 50 bolivar per dollar which is in line with the SICAD II exchange rate resulting in a $472 million charge.
We believe that this rate now best represents the economics of our business activity in Venezuela.
Going forward this charge will reduce the US dollar amount of local currency denominated revenues and expenses.
Had we applied this exchange rate throughout all of 2014 it would have reduced our full year EPS by approximately $0.08.
The last item relates to $199 million write-down of unconventional integrated project in the Eagle Ford as the result of the decline in oil prices.
Fourth quarter revenue of $12.6 billion was flat sequentially.
This reflected approximately $260 million of yearend software product and multi-client sales which were weaker than what we typically experienced in the fourth quarter.
Pretax operating income of $2.8 billion decreased 1% sequentially while the pretax operating margins decreased by just 19 basis points to 22%.
This level of margin is consistent with the same period last year.
Sequential revenue and pretax margin highlights by product group were as follows.
Fourth quarter Reservoir Characterization Group revenue of $3.1 billion decreased 3% sequentially while margins increased by 95 basis points to 30.9%.
The revenue decrease was largely attributable to the seasonal drop in marine seismic activity while wireline experienced declines in Russia due to the seasonality and the weakening of the ruble.
These decreases were partially offset by yearend multi-client and software sales.
The margin increase reflected a more favorable revenue mix as a result of the yearend sales.
Drilling Group fourth quarter revenue of $4.7 billion decreased 3% sequentially while margins declined by 94 basis points to 20.7%.
These decreases were primarily driven by unfavorable currency effects and activities declines in Russia that impacted the drilling and measurement and M-I SWACO as well as lower IPM activity in Mexico.
Fourth quarter Production Group revenue of just under $5 billion increased 5% sequentially on higher well services activity in both Western Canada and US land.
Year end sales of Completions and Artificial Lift Products also contributed to the increase.
Pretax margins were essentially flat at 18.3%.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 21.4% in the fourth quarter compared to 22.1% in the previous quarter.
Net debt at the end of the fourth quarter was $5.4 billion representing an improvement of $458 million as compared to the end of Q3.
We spent $1.1 billion on our stock buyback program during Q4.
This represented 12.1 million shares at an average price of $90.22.
Other significant liquidity events during the quarter included $1.2 billion of CapEx and an improvement in working capital of almost $1 billion.
From a cash flow perspective we generated $11.2 billion of cash flow from operations during all of 2014.
During this same period we generated a free cash flow of $6.2 billion.
This represents $700 million increase over 2013 and means that we converted 84% of our 2014 earnings excluding charges and credits into free cash flow.
This strong cash generation has allowed us to continue to invest in growth opportunities which we did by completing various acquisitions and investing $4 billion in CapEx $1.1 billion in multiclients and SPM projects while at the same time returning $6.6 billion of cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases.
During the full year 2014 we repurchased 47.5 million shares at an average price of $98.38 for a total of $4.7 billion while paying out almost $2 billion in dividends.
Yesterday our board of directors approved a 25% increase in our annual dividend to $2 per share.
This is now the fifth consecutive year that we have increased our dividend and it results in doubling over the five-year period.
This new level of dividend reflects our confidence and our ability to continue to generate superior cash flows and return excess cash to our shareholders even in the face of market challenges.
As it relates to 2015 our strong balance sheet will continue -- will also allow us to be opportunistic in terms of taking advantage of market conditions to make strategic acquisitions and investment.
CapEx excluding multiclient and SPM investment is expected to be approximately $3 billion in 2015.
We expect the ETR for the full year 2015 to be in the low to mid 20s.
However this can rally on a quarterly basis depending on the geographical mix of earnings.
And now I turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon and good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter we continued our strong financial performance driven by record activity in North America and in the Middle East and Asia.
In other international areas Latin America revenues improved slightly on higher activity in Venezuela and Columbia while Europe CIS and Africa fell as the ruble weakened and the seasonal decline activity started in Russia.
Europe CIS and Africa declined further from the downward trend in oil prices which curtailed customer activity and reduced rig count in the North Sea and parts of West Africa.
Overall fourth quarter revenue was flat with the previous quarter but grew 6% year-on-year.
Pretax operating income decreased 1% sequentially and grew 7% year-on-year while pretax operating margins were essentially flat slipping 19 basis points sequentially but rising 13 basis points year-on-year.
This performance ended the year in which Schlumberger revenue climbed to a new high in spite of significant head winds including activity challenges in a number of geo markets geopolitical unrest in Libya and Iraq international sanctions in Russia and reducing customer spend.
Still our global footprint broad business portfolio and strong execution capabilities provided the required resilience to outperform even in this environment.
Looking at our corporate financial performance we generated more than $3.4 billion in free cash flow in the fourth quarter bringing the full year total to more than $6.2 billion.
This represents an increase of 13% over 2013 and a conversion of 84% of the full year's earnings into free cash flow.
During the quarter we continued our active stock buyback program buying back $1.1 billion in stock to keep us on track to complete the $10 billion program within the stated two and a half year period.
As a further demonstration of the confidence we have in our continuing ability to generate free cash flow the board of directors just approved that 25 increase in our quarterly dividend which means that we have doubled our dividend payment over the past five years.
By geography our North American results set the new record for the area as revenue grew 2% sequentially.
Line activity improved in spite of tough sequential recount as new technology introductions and operational efficiencies drove performance.
___ drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico returned to normal and grew by 12% sequentially following the impact of loop currents in the third quarter.
While multiclient seismic sales also improved although ending up significantly down compared to the same quarter last year.
Sequential revenue gains were led by the production group on higher pressure pumping activity on land in both the US and Canada and further supported by very strong uptake of the BroadBand family of stimulation technologies that are growing at four times the rate of highway at the same stage of it's introduction.
North America margins increased by a further 24 basis points in Q4 to reach 19.6% driven by stronger activity and new technology uptake solid execution and further supply chain cost improvements.
Lower oil prices have already created pricing pressure on land for hydraulic fracturing and drilling services and we are actively working with our customers in all basins to help lower their overall drilling and completion costs.
In addition to general typing discussions our customer interactions are focused on how we can better work together and how we can create savings from new technologies and workflows as well as from improved operational planning and efficiency.
Looking forward in North America we see a relatively flat first quarter for offshore activity in the Gulf of Mexico as well as solid activity in Canada.
However the dramatic fallen oil prices has already led to a reduction of around 400 rigs in US land compared to the October peak and we expect the trend of activity reductions and pricing pressure to continue in the first quarter.
In our international business strength in the Middle East and Asia and solid performance in Latin America was offset by significant revenue reductions in Europe CIS and Africa.
As a result revenue slipped 1% sequentially but improved 1% year-on-year while pretax operating income decreased 2% sequentially but grew 4% year-on-year.
Full year performance in the international market was strong in spite of E&amp;P CapEx spend remaining flat with 2013.
Year-on-year revenue grew by 4% operating income by 12% with incremental margins of 69%.
International margins which ended the year at 24% grew 168 basis points versus 2013 and we generated more than 70% of our global operating income in the international market in the past year.
The significant drop in oil prices have put pressure on our customers to further reduce their cost of barrel and we are actively engaged with most of them to find ways to generate their required cost savings while maintaining a very strong focus on the quality and integrity on the products and services we provide.
Within the international areas performance was led by the Middle East and Asia where sequential revenue grew by 4% and pretax operating margins increased by 71 basis points to 28.3% driven by activity growth in the Middle East while activity in Asia was largely unchanged.
Year-on-year revenue increased 6% and margins grew by 2013 basis points.
In the Middle East region activity reached a new record in Saudi Arabia led by growth from a number of key projects and we expect to see continued strong levels of both rig-related and rig-less activity in the coming years.
Kuwait was also strong on land seismic activity and yearend product and software sales while Oman continued to be driven by wireline services and hydraulic fracturing work.
Activity was again higher in the United Arab Emirates particularly for well construction technologies both offshore and on the island drilling project.
In Iraq activity was steady in the north as an improved security environment had allowed operations to slowly resume.
However the overall activity level still remained significantly below pre-conflict levels.
In the south we saw modest activity improvements although new project start-ups continued to be delayed.
Southeast Asia remained flat through the third quarter as strength in shale gas development on land in china offset modest activity declines in Malaysia Indonesia and Vietnam.
China was also boosted by increased product sales during the fourth quarter and strong offshore activity in Bohai Bay.
In Malaysia work has begun in the new well construction project on the Bokor field where we have now been conducting integrated project and production management operations for more than 10 years.
This is another example of the value that long-term relationships bring to integrated operations.
In Latin America revenue improved 1% sequentially while pretax operating margins fell 102 basis points to 20.9% as growth in Columbia and Venezuela was offset by weakness in Mexico and delayed in Argentina and Brazil.
Year-on-year revenue grew by 3% while pretax operating margin slipped by 31 basis points.
In Venezuela growth was driven by new technology and work flow deployment for PDVSA as well as increased activity in the far half through a series on new project startups.
In Mexico revenue decreased significantly on a combination of customer budget constraints and seasonal weather effect impacting offshore activity.
The lower customer spent mainly impacted land development activity although some exploration work was also delayed.
Elsewhere in the area activity in Brazil was solid on land but offshore work was lower and IOC projects were completed and drilling delays were experienced on existing project.
In Argentina growth slowed in the fourth quarter although activity from conventional resources grew and the highway technology continuing to penetrate the market.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue fell by 7% sequentially with margin declining by 112 basis points to 22.3%.
Compared to the same quarter last year Europe CIS and Africa revenue fell by 5% while margin slipped by 21 basis points.
In Russia weakness in the ruble and the onset of winter weather led to the lower result.
The North Sea activity also declined on lower rig count in both Norway and the UK as customers reduced activity in response to lower oil prices.
In other parts of Europe Africa and CIS area activity was stronger in North Africa with increasing activity for unconventional resources in Algeria and Tunisia.
This was partially offset by very weak activity in Libya where we now have successfully restructured our operations in line with the lower activity.
In Angola activity decreased following the peak in explorations seen in the third quarter while elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa activity was strong in Congo and we also secured additional growth in Chad and Gabon.
Before leaving the Europe CIS and Africa area I would also like to mention that we were awarded a full-year contract for drilling and well services by Statoil for the UK Mariner development east of Shetland.
Mariner is one of the largest project development on the UK continental shelf in the last 10 years and their 22 distinct services that Schlumberger will provide offer considerable opportunities for integration in this unique project.
In terms of the outlook for the international market as part of the Middle East and partial Latin America we do expect a reduction in spend levels for all customer groups in the coming year although we believe that the activity and pricing impact will be less than what is projected in North America land.
It is also worthwhile to keep in mind that E&amp;P spend in the international market was already flat in 2014 with a corresponding drop in discovered reserves and in oil production capacity.
So a further reduction in spend levels in 2015 will likely accelerate these trends.
Turning to the overall macro outlook for 2015 GDP growth rate softened somewhat in the fourth quarter but that 3% growth is still projected to be higher than 2014 confirming that the global recovery remains intact and as a result demand for oil is again expected to increase by around 1 million barrels per day in 2016.
Looking at the supply side the growth in global oil production capacity of around 1 million barrels per day over the past year matches the growth in demand.
So the overall oil market is still relatively well balanced from a capacity standpoint.
The dramatic fall in oil prices is instead a result of higher marketed supply in the second half of 2014 from North America and also from OPEC who have shifted focus from protecting oil prices to protecting oil prices to protecting market share.
In response to the falling oil prices the industry is currently in the process of significantly reducing E&amp;P investments which will lead to a reduction in supply as declining rates impact current production capacity and lower exploration and development activity delay supply additions.
In a scenario of continuing economic growth and increasing demand for oil the lower E&amp;P investment levels will lead to a tightening of the oil market with the first indication being the reduced production capacity in the international markets in 2014 following a year of flat E&amp;P investment.
In this uncertain environment we continue to focus on what we can control and we have already taken significant steps to restructure and right size our business to match the reduced E&amp;P investment level.
We are further convinced that performance must now be driven by and accelerated change in the way we work through our transformation program.
The delivery of new technology that improves the performance of our customer's reservoirs the increases in efficiency and reliability that reduced overall timing development and production costs and the opportunities for growth and greater integration bring are all significant drivers of our own and our customers' performance.
The technical performance targets of our transformation program is independent of the macro environment and we are in 2015 actually looking to further accelerate the implementation of the program.
In terms of technology we still expect new technology sales at premium pricing to contribute more than 25% of our revenue while we also target integration related activity where we had unique capabilities to exceed 30% of our total activity.
In terms of reliability and efficiency we are in 2015 aiming to make further progress towards our targets of a 10-fold reduction in non-productive time and doubling in asset utilization at 20% increase in workforce productivity and 10% lowering of support costs which will all help to significantly lower our operating costs.
Part of our transformation program requires us to work differently with our customers in order to fully realize the value for both them and for us.
Given the current business environment we have engaged with many of them in recent months to drive forward these changes with very positive response.
Still given the level of the oil price and the industry wide focus on reducing E&amp;P investments we clearly have a challenging year in front of us.
In this environment we have our entire organization fully focused on continuously engage in our customers to understand any changes to their plan retailer resources through activity in line with the targets and playbooks we have established and to manage commercial discussions according to the priorities we have put in place for each of the over 80 countries where we operate.
Beyond our strong execution focus we also see the coming year as flushed with opportunities for us which we intend to fully capitalize on as we look to further strengthen the company going forward.
With our wide geographical footprint extensive business portfolio and clear financial strength we remain confident in our ability to outperform in any part of the cycle including the current market condition.
Thank you.
We will now open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks a lot and thanks for your insights there Paal.
I wondered whether you could start with the macro here.
I wondered whether you could help us understand your slight change in language from the third quarter.
You highlighted both in the third quarter release and the fourth quarter release that negativity the peer revisions I mean that's consistent.
But on the supply side you talked in the third quarter about pipe capacity and now you are talking about increase in supply.
I just wondered whether you could just elaborate a little bit and help us understand the difference in the magnitude.
Okay.
So if you look at the high level macro view that we have nothing has really changed from what we said on the Q3 call.
So looking at GDP at 3% we are still looking at solid growth overall in 2015 and oil demand is also going to be up.
So as we said in Q3 the issue is really on the supply side where I think it's very important that we separate the three in global production capacity and marketed supply.
So if you look at the global production capacity in 2014 it grew by about 1 million barrels a day which is equal to the growth in demand.
So the significant drop in oil prices is not driven by this over capacity but rather by the higher marketed supply which is coming from North America and from OPEC.
So we believe that the supply side is currently going through a significant change where the key local producers have shifted focus from protecting price to now protect market share and the consequence of this is that at least for a period of time this is going to make the high cost producers become the new swing producers where the activity is going to be even more driven by the variations in oil price and the economics of their project.
And the tool used to drive this change to the supply side is the lower oil price which is what we are seeing now.
So the main new element from the Q3 call is that OPEC decided not to cut production so the reduction in the marketed supply will have to come from lower E&amp;P investments and that is really the only offtake to our macro view.
And my second follow up would be exactly on that.
You highlight this time around in your release that the two effect of lower CapEx increased declined curves from existing fields and delays in new field start-ups.
So I wonder whether you could talk a little bit at a high level at what point do you see the impact of this will change market psychology on the direction of incremental capacity versus a direction of incremental demand assuming demand plays out in line with your view there.
Yes if we assume that oil demand is going to be up by 1 million barrels if we don't take lower investments and already reduce their capacity the market is already heading towards a tightening.
I think that's very clear.
Now we don't expect the oil prices to improve significantly until there are signs of weakening supply and the weakening supply will either first come from North America or from international.
I think the signs we need to look at are different from the two regions.
Given the strong growth momentum in North America I think what the market will be looking for here is the slowing year-over-year growth while given the flat investment levels in international market in 2014 capacity already reduced in 2014.
So here I think we are looking for a further reduction in absolute supply.
So I think these are the two main signals to look for.
And then your guess again on timing? I am not going to guess at least not in public.
Okay Paal I will hand it back.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Paal.
Good morning.
I was just wondering in light on your commentary around the supply response and you are talking about international and North America there is clearly a pretty healthy debate out there about the economics of North America in unconventional.
Just wondering with Schlumberger's expertise in reservoir can you help us understand how you think about that marginal cost supplier and in particular how you see the trajectory of spending and activity levels in North America over the next several quarters? Well I think if you look at 2015 activity in North America and you look at the third party spend surveys it indicates about 25% 30% reduction.
So it's clearly going to be a tough year going forward right.
As to the viability of the project I think there is still a broad range of operating costs in North America land.
But I would say that as a general statement the shift in OPEC from protecting price to protecting share is raising some questions around the US shale going forward and I think the new oil price dynamic is clearly going to test the resilience of several North America land producers from their ability to get financing their ability to continue to drive cost efficiency and reduced cost of barrel and also their ability to maintain production at current level.
So I think most likely we are going to face the situation in North America land with lower activity more focus on the lower cost production areas for a while.
That's our view at this stage.
And then just kind of sticking still on North America in light of the headcount and CapEx reduction and keeping in mind that you are getting more capital efficient of the transformation.
I just wonder if you could help us understand your strategy during this downturn to align your capacity with activity levels.
Should we expect a similar strategy that Schlumberger employed in 2009 or can we expect it to be a little bit more focused on utilization this time around? Well I am not going to go into the detail tactics and strategy we have on pricing and share.
That's going to vary all depending on I would say the basin the customer type and so forth.
But I will say that the general rule that we have applied in recent years that below a certain contribution margin we will rather stack the equipment than operate at the level that is unacceptable.
Okay thank you Paal.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Paal so switching gears here a sec from North America to the international realm and recognizing that the early data internationally has not been as transparent as it has in North America given the litany of capital spending analysis for '15.
But given where oil prices are today certainly it seems that the indication points to a pretty hard landing in the international realm and while we share your view that the contraction internationally is going to be more benign than in North America it's still going to be fairly consequential.
So just as a starting point is down 10% to 15% internationally within the realm of reason where we sit today? While to think to kind of venture out and even make full year statement at this stage I think it's too early.
We have very significant lack of visibility.
The way we are going about managing actually both North America and internationally is we are looking quarter by quarter now.
So we have taken actions to be in line with costs versus the activity that we foresee for Q1.
And we will continue to stay very closely in touch with customers to look at plans going forward to make sure that we continue to tailor resources to the projected activity.
Now we are aware of the third party surveys and the 10% to 15% reduction in international spend for 2015 I think today is probably a reasonable starting point although I wouldn't confirm it from our side for the full year.
Okay.
And then secondly kind of juxtaposing downturn as it were 2015 versus what prevailed in 2009 I mean clearly you are a different company coming into this downturn than you were in 2009 given the internal transformation focus.
In light of that do you think the decremental margins this time around are going to be better behaved anywhere in 2009 or basically about in line? Well I would be very disappointed if we don't see a significant improvement in our decremental margins in this downturn versus what we saw in 2009.
The -- we've had a very very strong focus on generating incremental margins in the past four five years and over the past quarter we have basically converted our strong and peer expectations on incremental into equally clear expectations internally on what good decrementals are.
I am not going to give you what the number is but like I said I will be very disappointed if we don't do significantly better than in 2009.
Very good thank you sir.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning Paal.
I am trying to hone in on how you're actually approaching 2015 and maybe take it from the perspective of the methods to the leadership of Schlumberger in terms of controlled business.
You mentioned several things you can control maintain the targets on the transformation program with the lack of visibility maybe tighten up the reaction time from six months reviews to quarter-by-quarter.
Is there anything else that we should be thinking about in terms of approaching the downturn of '15? Well I think you hit on several of the things.
But if I was to just kind of repeat to clarify them what we have passed to our senior management team in the quite frequent meetings we've had over the past quarter there are really three high level things.
Firstly the increased importance of staying very very close to our customers.
First interactively support our efforts to reduce their cost levels but also to make sure that the -- we very clearly understand their plans and changes to their plans.
That's the first one.
The second one is what you will alluded to do that we stay focused on what we control.
And that is to proactively adjust costs to activity levels and factoring in the benefits from the transformation.
And also having a clear plan on how we are going to navigate the commercial landscape in terms of activity and pricing discussions with our customers but also very importantly to continue to focus and deliver safe and high quality operations which is essential to our performance but also to our customer's performance.
And the third one which we are also balancing into the total picture is to capture the opportunities that we see in the current environment and we see the current environment as being flushed with opportunities for us.
First is to gain market share in light of our two main competitors looking to combine.
Secondly to accelerate the transformation our organization is now pulling very hard on it and we also see our customers being very open to adjust how we work with them and how we interact with them to gain some of the benefits.
And then the third one is inorganic growth.
We see lots of opportunities for this based on our strong cash flow and also very solid balance sheet.
So these are the high level messages that we have already passed to our management team and they are currently executing.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
If I can follow-up on your inorganic growth comment quickly does the current environment change the process around acquisitions and the last few years they've been smaller bolt-on has been used as a term to describe the strategy since Smith.
Does the appetite for a larger deal change in this environment? No I wouldn't see that.
The current environment has changed the strategic directions that we were looking to pursue.
It is more about when these opportunities arise.
We have a clear view of where the company is heading and what we want to do from an M&amp;A standpoint.
We have been executing a number of these things in pervious years and as we go forward now we would look at whether the other opportunities that we have in our list become accelerated opportunities in which case we will pursue them.
Okay thanks so much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Morning.
Paal so could you talk a little bit I mean you have the 25% reduction in your CapEx and could you give us a little bit of high level color on that cut where the cuts are coming from and I recall that in 2009 you did reduce your CapEx tied to technology but based on your opening remarks it sounds that that would not be case to cycle and then also how flexible are you on your CapEx outlook for 2015? Okay.
Well like you say in the current full year CapEx estimate is 3 billion but given the lack of visibility and the uncertainty this is still subject to change.
So I will also that part of the CapEx reduction is due to the efficiency gains that we are planning from the transformation.
So you cannot directly translate the CapEx to a projected revenue for 2015 and I also don't think you can directly compare it to the CapEx reductions that we did in 2009.
I will also say that we have significant flexibility built into our manufacturing capabilities.
We are as I mentioned targeting market share gains in particular in the international market.
So if we need more CapEx to serve these gains we have the flexibility to increase CapEx during the year and also we have the opportunity and flexibility to decrease CapEx further if the impact on the transformation is even beyond what we are targeting.
All right.
And then kind of an unrelated follow-up I mean obviously your customers are coming to you and the international markets talking and looking at the contracts and where you can pull out cost out of the system and you are seeing it in the US how much success or have you begun conversations and where you can pull cost out of the system specifically in US frac.
Is there other cost recovery opportunities besides proppants truck rail and what are you seeing along those lines? Well overall or in the US? Both actually.
While I would -- our approach to these discussions with our customers and we are receiving invitations to engage in these discussions both international and in North America.
I mean our approach is that we fully understand the need our customers have to reduce their overall costs.
And we have engaged in a range of discussions where we are looking at volume discounts versus market share further application and new technology generally better planning and efficiency maybe less use of backup resources better terms and conditions and it also involves general pricing discussions right.
So with the transformation we have significant opportunity to drive costs of our system internally but some of these cost savings will also depend on our customers being open to work with us in different ways.
And I would say there is a significant increase in that openness to start to realize these values and I think our discussions in general are focused on how we can create more value together obviously in addition to general pricing discussions.
All right.
And so -- I guess to add on to that are you going back to your supply chain vendors for changes in cost reductions and proppants and other sources that you have in the US or internationally and are you able to pull cost out of your system besides the efficiency side? No absolutely.
And over the past three years or so we have fully centralized our shared services and supply chain organization including global category management.
So we are fully leveraging firstly our buying power and secondly I would say a highly capable supply chain organization to drive a similar type of discussion with our suppliers as to the discussions we have with our customers.
Thanks.
I will turn it over.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James West from Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning Paal.
Good morning.
I wanted to just touch on the transformation program again and kind of clarify a few things there.
Obviously you are looking to speed up the transformation.
I wanted to know if you could give us some sense of kind of how much more quickly you can go through this? And then secondarily does the downturn which I know we all don't like nobody likes downturns but does that not make the transformation easier to be in a downturn? In some ways it does.
Because then you are performing quite well and you are busy taking on more work and growing to change to where you were both internally and in the interfaces you have both the customers and suppliers.
It's more difficult to drive change in that type of situation.
When you have a shift in market conditions as you have now we see even more interest internally and even more openness on the customer supply side to engage in doing things differently.
So I would say yes the changing market condition provides us with more opportunity to accelerate so then the key is just how do we put resources on to this from a central management standpoint to have the various parts of the program staff and given the financial means to accelerate some of the investments that we are making to realize these gains.
Okay.
Great.
And then I have a follow-up not on that but unrelated.
You made a comment earlier about going after market share as a result of your two major competitors combining.
Have you already seen customers come to you and have you already seen market share gains? I know it is early days but is it already happening? No I think it's a bit premature to say it's happening now.
I mean the transaction is not closed yet.
So I think as of now we are preparing for this.
In discussions with our customers the topic comes up but I would say that this is more something that will take place if and when the transaction is closed.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks Paal.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning Paal.
Good morning.
Just follow-up on James's question on the potential fallout from the merger.
As you indicated there is nothing yet shaking loose necessarily and that will come post deal close.
So you've indicated or you've emphasized at least in your prior commentary market share gains and with an emphasis on the international side.
So I was wondering if you might be able to just give us a little bit of color on what you think may shake loose and how many basis points of market share gains could come out of this if not for Schlumberger specific maybe on a broader basis? Well if I was going to comment on the transaction firstly at the high level I would say that the pending transaction first validates what we have been saying all along and that is that scale is essential to drive performance in the business that we are in.
Now from our experience making a making a large transaction to build and leverage scale it has a series of challenges.
And in general everything takes much longer than you initially think.
And in addition to this all the extra work that is involved with making such a transaction easily distracts you from running the base business.
So as I have been saying we look at this transaction as an opportunity within capital low for us and we do intend to capitalize on it and this is again linked to the gaining of market share.
In the international market I would say in many countries our market share has been limited by a glass ceiling and this glass ceiling has been put in place by our customers to make sure that there is enough work to make a third player viable.
Now if the other two players were to combine into one then I think this glass ceiling can easily be broken and that's why we are basically going through pretty much all our contracts in all the international countries we operate in and to make sure we have targeted plans for how we would look to capitalize on this market share opportunity if and when the transaction closes.
Okay.
That's good.
And so many topics and so little time so just wanted to try to calibrate some things with you.
You said you guys reduced headcount by 9 000 to address current activity levels then you reference a couple of third-party E&amp;P surveys with the US down 25% to 30% which seems low in my view and 10% to 15% which if I were to interpret your commentary though you didn't state specifically might suggest is you think that 10% to 15% reduction in international spend is too low or too much? While as I said I didn't make a full year statement on this.
We are going to focus on managing this year in quarters.
I think the general statements I would make is that the impact on North America Land we expect to be significantly more dramatic then what you would see in the rest of the world.
Okay.
And then if I just may finish with one.
Just curious about your views on what's going on with the market opportunities in Brazil given all the corruption scandals and so on and so forth.
And maybe tying that back to the merger coming up here which would give your competitor about 70% market share if I'm not mistaken of the recently awarded drilling package.
So first and foremost with the mess in Brazil is that going to lead to activity declines you think in 2015? And then secondarily how do you see the possibility of this drilling contract being re-bid one more time? Well I think as to your -- the things going on but in Petrobras I will let Petrobras comment on those things.
Our relationship with Petrobras and our working relationship continues to be very good.
Now Petrobras did recently announce budget cuts for their first half of 2015 and versus a previously indication of flat spend.
So there will be challenges in Brazil going into this year.
As for the new contracts the latest information we have is that the wireline and E&amp;M contract will kick in mid-year of 2015.
And what is going to happen to the market share within these contracts and I don't know.
We are based on the bid happy with the contact.
Now what Petrobras chooses to do in terms of market allocations we will have to revert to them.
Okay.
I really appreciate it.
Thanks a lot Paal.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Paal given your quarter-to-quarter kind of look here how you are managing the business I was hoping perhaps you could help us just calibrate 1Q relative to fourth quarter? I know we didn't see quite probably the yearend product sales one would expect.
You talked in your prepared comments just kind of some of the puts and takes in North America but I didn't hear much specifically around international.
And just trying to see if you can help us calibrate how we should think about 4Q to 1Q here from an EPS perspective? Okay if you look at the first quarter even for the first quarter there is still significant visibility challenges.
Now we do expect a significant sequential drop in revenue due to like you say last year on product sales the normal seasonal impact in particular in North Sea Russia China as well as in Marine Seismic and also the exchange rate impact in particular from Venezuela and Russia is going to felt.
And the last part which is kind of new this year is further activity and pricing impact from the reduced E&amp;P CapEx spend.
So what we have done is and we have tailored our cost space for revenues to be around the levels for the first quarter of last year.
So this involves a range of cost measures taken in Q4 including the release of the 9 000 people that we quoted.
So I would say I am comfortable with our cost structure with respect to this base case of Q1 activity around revenue levels of Q1 of last year.
Now this activity is stronger we have means to cover it and if it is lower we have the ability to quickly cut more.
Okay.
So 1Q revenue '15 equal to 1Q revenue '14 overall? I am not saying that the revenue is going to be that I am saying that that's how we have tailored our cost base.
Okay.
So if I just get back then to the headcount reductions then so the reductions you have made I guess first assume that this -- it seems like from the call this is strictly a North America reduction is that in fact the case of the headcount cuts you have made so far? No it's not.
This is a global reduction and it both a combination of I would say structure headcount as well as fee capacity headcount.
Okay.
So there's still room here as your quarter-to-quarter view changes for further headcount reductions on a global basis? I guess is that a fair comment Paal? Yes as Q1 evolves we will firm up our view on Q2 and the playbook we run through in Q4 to be right-sized for Q1 we will repeat if necessary during the first quarter to be right-sized for Q2.
Okay.
If I could just ask one more what should we assume right now [inaudible] of the headcount reductions that are being made currently? Well I am not going to predict the cost here but I will tell you that normally we recover our costs in the severance within the following time here.
It's probably more than this number.
So I have already covered in fact [inaudible] be within the 2015.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks I will turn it back.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jud Bailey from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
Paal one thing that strikes us about this downturn relative to what we saw in 2008 and 2009 is the urgency of some of the large operators to cut back on their offshore spending very quickly.
I would be curious to get your thoughts on deepwater activity in kind of the three main basins Gulf of Mexico West Africa and Brazil how your customers are approaching that and how you see the outlook there over the next 12 to 18 months? Well if you look at global deepwater activity it was down I think 6% 7% in 2014 predominantly driven by Brazil and in 2015 at this stage and I am talking about deep water activity now we still expect another 5% to 10% decline.
Where it is going to come I think is a bit early to say.
The Gulf of Mexico looks likely to be reasonably flat.
As I just mentioned Brazil there seems to be potentially further cuts in Brazil and I think there is still a bit lack of visibility in Angola.
But I would say 5% to 10% decline in activity is what we expect which is more I think in line with what we absorbed in 2014.
Now I think with a big saving in deepwater drilling spend it's going to come in 2015 it's going to be around the rig rate which started to come down in 2014 but I think the big saving our customers are going to get on deepwater drilling in '15 is going to come from the rig rate.
Okay.
And that kind of leads into my next question is one thing that we've heard from rig contractors is more so than in '09 we are hearing from them that operators are approaching them more so than '09 on trying to renegotiate existing contracts.
I would be curious how are your customers approaching you in terms of pricing? Are they looking to try to renegotiate existing contracts? And then also do you have a sense on the ability for you to sell them new technology to save time and cost or are they just in the mode of trying to get cost down and not really looking at that aspect of it yet? I think on the deepwater size for our product and services we do have discussions around trying to drive costs out of the system.
But I would say our customers in this market segment in particular are still very-very focused on operational integrity and also looking at using the latest and best technologies to make sure that they drive performance through that.
So we haven't really had any significant I would say price book discussions or requests for price book reduction.
On the deepwater side it is more how we can work together to drive total cost down through better planning through better execution through less downtime rather than specific price book discussion.
Okay.
Thank you.
I will turn it back.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob MacKenzie from Iberia Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to ask about technology adoption something you highlighted again in your press release specifically on US land.
And my question is are you seeing a greater or lesser propensity of operators to adopt technology in the effort to drive down -- or drive up -- returns in this cycle? One might think you would but operators typically haven't always behaved that way.
Oh you are right.
In North America land that has been the situation.
I would say that we are seeing or in 2014 we did see a growing uptake and a growing appetite to apply new technologies to drive both higher production and lower cost to improve cost per barrel.
So I would say that BroadBand family of stimulation technologies is a very good example of this.
Highway was one of the first and a major technology innovations on the fact side in terms of fluids for quite a while.
As we introduced it in 2011 it grew very fast.
But with the BroadBand family which was introduced in the early part of 2014 this is currently growing at four times the pace.
So part of this is that we have engaged our customers in a slightly different way this time around for BroadBand and we have met myself and my team included with a range of our customers at the CEO COO level to lay out firstly what the technology does but also to give them introductory offers to basically demonstrate what these technologies can do and I believe that when we introduce them in this way then the adaptation to all these organizations actually is quicker and more significant.
So when they come to you as many of them say they are doing now coming to their vendors and asking for price concessions how does that change the conversation? Well I think our customers still look to drive down total cost or improved cost per barrel and when they engage in these discussions there is already pretty clear on the standing of what some of these technologies have already done for them and when we have commercial discussions these improvements and these benefits that we offer are factored into the overall situation when we discussed pricing with them.
Thank you.
That's all the time we have for the questions today.
And now on behalf of the Schlumberger management team I would like to thank you for participating in today's call.
Greg will now provide the closing comments.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 9 AM Central Time today through February 16th.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 339697.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 339697.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Vice President of Investor Relations Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited first quarter 2015 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from Houston.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our first comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information is included in the earnings press release on our website.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
First quarter earnings per share excluding charges earning credits was $1.06.
This represents decreases of $0.44 sequentially and $0.15 when compared to the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we recorded $439 million of pretax charges.
This includes $390 million of charges associated with the headcount reduction of 11 000 as well as an incentivized leave of absence program.
This program provides us with some flexibility as we manage the uncertainties of the current environment.
In Venezuela during the first quarter the SICAD II exchange rate of VEF50 to $1 was eliminated and replaced with a new system known as SIMADI.
The SIMADI rate was approximately VEF192 as of the end of the quarter.
As a result we recorded $49 million of devaluation charge during the first quarter.
After this charge the U.S.
dollar value of our Bolivar denominated net assets is not material.
Therefore any further devaluations of the Bolivar will not have a significant impact on our results.
Our first quarter revenue of $10.2 billion decreased 19% sequentially while pretax operating margin decreased 255 basis points.
Approximately 25% of the sequential revenue decline was attributable to the currency effect and the absence of the year-end increase in product software and multi-client sales that we experienced last quarter.
The remaining decrease was driven by activity and price declines.
Despite the very challenging environment pretax operating margin declined 255 basis points sequentially which resulted in incremental margins of only 33%.
This is a result of prompt and proactive cost management across the organization.
It's worth noting that although our revenue was significantly impacted by the fall in value of many currencies this phenomenon does not have a significant impact on our pretax operating income.
This reflects the benefit of our local cost structure which largely serves as the natural hedge against currency movements on our bottom line.
Highlights by both product group were as follows.
First quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.6 billion decreased 21% sequentially while margins decreased 447 basis points to 25.7%.
These decreases were largely due to seasonally lower multi-client and software sales and a fall in higher margin exploration activity.
Drilling group revenue of $4 billion decreased 15% sequentially while margins only declined 80 basis points.
These declines were primarily driven by the severe rig count drop in North America.
Production group revenue of $3.8 billion decreased 22% sequentially and margins fell by 389 basis points primarily on lower pressure pumping activity and pricing pressure in North America land.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 20.9% in the first quarter compared to 21.4% in the previous quarter.
This decrease reflects the fact that we generated a smaller portion of our pretax income in North America during Q1.
As we [indiscernible] throughout the year the EPR will continue to be very sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings.
We generated almost $1.8 billion of cash flow from operations and net debt increased $100 million during the quarter to $5.5 billion.
This is all despite the consumption of working capital that we typically experience during Q1 which is driven by the annual associated with employee compensation as well as the payment of $245 million in severance during the quarter.
Even with the challenges of the current market we still anticipate generating very strong free cash flow.
This is because during the downturn we continue to reduce our investment in CapEx and working capital requirements will also come down.
This combination should more than offset the decrease in earnings.
During the quarter we spent $719 million to repurchase 8.7 million shares at an average price of $82.98.
We spent $606 million on CapEx full year 2015 CapEx excluding multi-client and SBM investment is now expected to be approximately $2.5 billion.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter revenue declined 19% driven by the activity collapse on land in North America and the associated pricing pressure.
International activity was lower as customers cut budgets in response to lower commodity prices and was also impacted by the normal seasonal effects in the northern hemisphere and the fall of certain local currencies against the U.S.
dollar.
In spite of these top line headwinds we have been able to minimize the impact on our pretax operating margins to prompt and proactive cost management and by further accelerating our transformation program.
This is reflected in our first quarter international margins which are essentially flat sequentially and are up year-over-year.
We have also delivered better decrementals than in any previous downturn with sequential decremental margins as low as 33% with North America and the international areas achieving 39% and 25% respectively.
The pace and magnitude of the activity reductions particularly in North America has been almost unprecedented and we have to go back to the mid-1980s to find anything similar.
And while we thought we had adequate plans in place going into the quarter activity declined even faster than expected which required us to revise our plans accordingly.
This made managing the quarter challenging including the decision to further reduce our workforce by 11 000 employees bringing the total personnel reduction to 20 000 or around 15% compared to the peak of the third quarter of 2014.
Looking at our corporate financial performance we generated more than $1.2 billion of free cash flow before restructuring payments during the first quarter.
And we remain confident in our ability to generate free cash even in these market conditions.
And we expect to maintain the cash quality of our earnings by continuing to convert 75% or more of our net income into free cash flow.
By geography our North American revenue decreased 25% sequentially which was significantly lower than the 32% drop in land rig count.
Operating margins in North America decreased 670 basis points sequentially to 12.9%.
In spite of these severe activity and pricing declines sequential decrementals were limited to 39% as we maintain -- as we remain fully focused on flawless execution and proactive cost management.
In U.S.
land drilling and stimulation activity was down in all basins while activity also dropped significantly in Canada while the reduction in rig count was further impacted by the early Spring breakup.
In the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater activity was resilient in the first quarter although we're seeing a steady change in service mix from exploration towards development work driven by budget cuts from most of our customers.
On land in North America pricing pressure was greatest for hydraulic fracturing services although some of this impact was mitigated to increase new technology uptake particularly for our BroadBand stimulation services and Infinity completions products.
In spite of this market pricing for certain products and services has already reached unsustainable levels; however we're being selective in the pursuit of market share and very disciplined in the avoidance of loss making contracts.
We continue to work with our customers to have lower drilling and completion costs by focusing on the savings that new virtuals and technologies can bring.
We're doing this through our technology integration groups that house the full arrangement of shale expertise spanning formation evaluation drilling stimulation and completions.
The experts making up these integration groups are located in the larger shale basins in North America land and have both the scientific understanding of how to optimize shale developments and also an in-depth knowledge of our complete technology offering which they combine to design the best solution for each reservoir and each well.
The track record we have established over the past five years has now given us the confidence to propose a range of new business models to our customers where we initially absorb the incremental cost linked to our work flows and technologies in return for an upside based on the actual production results.
One example of our unique shale technologies is HiWAY which helps customers increase production and ultimate recovery while using less water and proppant.
In the period between 2012 and 2014 wells completed with HiWAY technology in the Eagle Ford showed a 26% increase in the best three months of production compared to wells stimulated with conventional treatments.
HiWAY technology also helped save around 1.4 billion gallons of fracturing fluid and about 2.8 billion pounds of proppant in more than 1 000 wells.
The success of the HiWAY technology is now being complimented and extended by the rapid uptake of BroadBand Sequence which has already shown remarkable performance for a range of customers in both new well completions and in refracturing of old wells.
In the international markets revenue declined 16% sequentially driven by seasonal weather impact currency effects and customer spending cuts.
But despite the severity of the sequential revenue decline and the unfavorable shift in revenue mix we managed to minimize the impact on our pretax operating margins which was essentially flat with the previous quarter at 24.1%.
This performance was achieved by strong execution proactive cost and resource management and the acceleration of our transformation program.
Which together were able to offset the margin impact from both reduced activity and the pricing pressure we were seeing from all customer groups.
In terms of managing the pricing pressure we remain fully focused on navigating the commercial landscape by carefully balancing the pursuit of market share with the protection of operating margins and by always aiming to trade any pricing concessions for additional work scope or better contract terms.
Within the international areas Middle East and Asia revenue declined by 13% sequentially while pretax operating margin improved by 30 basis points to 28.6%.
Performance was impacted by a double-digit sequential drop in revenue in the Asia Pacific region and by lower product and software sales but was partially offset by robust activity in the DTC region.
Year-on-year revenue decreased 5% and margins grew by 230 basis points.
In the Middle East region our lump-sum turnkey projects in Saudi Arabia gained momentum during the first quarter and we expect solid drilling activity going forward together with more fracturing and rigless work.
In the United Arab Emirates development activity on the North Island of the [indiscernible] project has now started with more rig additions planned over the next few quarters.
On this project Schlumberger has been awarded the five-year contract for the supply of integrated well construction services with further details provided in our earnings press release.
Activity in the rest of the DCC countries was also strong in the first quarter.
While in Iraq revenues in the North remain muted at around half of the peak levels seen in 2014 and activity in the South of the country was steady around the levels seen in the fourth quarter.
In Southeast Asia activity in China was seasonally lower in the first quarter but activity also declined in the rest of the regions as customer budget cuts continued to be implemented.
In Latin America revenue declined 20% sequentially while pretax operating margin improved 59 basis points to 21.5%.
Revenue was impacted by decreased activity in Mexico Brazil and Columbia as customer budgets were cut and also by the fall in the value of the Venezuelan Bolivar.
Still these effects were partially offset by slight activity increases in Venezuela Argentina and Ecuador.
Year-on-year revenue decreased 6% and margins grew by 39 basis points.
In Venezuela activity continued to improve with [indiscernible] and with several of the joint ventures in the Faja while activity is also ramping up in Trinidad.
In Mexico revenue decreased significantly on a combination of customer budget cuts as well as seasonal weather effects that mainly impacted offshore activity.
The reduced spend mainly affected non-development activity although some exploration work was also delayed.
Elsewhere in Latin America offshore activity in Brazil remains weak with a deepwater slowdown continuing as Petrobras announced budget cuts early in the quarter.
In Argentina activity remains resilient in the first quarter driven by simulation work and continued new technology uptake in the Vaca Muerta and with new project startups offsetting the completion of others.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenues fell 17% sequentially with margins declining by 133 basis points to 21%.
Year-on-year revenue decreased 12% and margins grew by 66 basis points.
The revenue decline was mainly due to continued weakness in the ruble and lower seasonal activity in Russia.
In the UK North Sea exploration activity fell to its lowest level in recent history as customer spending decelerated while rig count in the Norwegian sector appears to have reached a bottom.
In Sub-Sahara Africa both development and exploration activity was down sequentially across the region.
In Algeria our activity was flat sequentially while work in Libya was limited to offshore locations with onshore operations largely shut down for the quarter.
Looking at the industry as a whole the current financial challenges will not disappear even if oil prices were to recover to the levels seen in recent years.
The industry is therefore forced to seek new ways of working together to reduce costs and create more project value.
And we have seen a much closer collaboration between operators and large service companies as a significant opportunity to create technical solutions that will achieve these objectives.
At Schlumberger we're ready to enter into these types of collaborations.
And based on our technical and financial strength we're also prepared to promote more risk-based contract models where we're compensated based on the solutions we have designed as well as on the performance of our execution.
And these contract structures are currently being tabled with a number of customers as part of the ongoing commercial discussions.
Turning to the 2015 outlook visibility still remains limited.
However we expect the largest open in E&amp;P investments to occur in North America where 2015 spend is expected to be down by more than 30%.
We further believe that a recovery in U.S.
land drilling activity will be pushed out in time as the inventory of uncompleted wells builds and as the refracturing market expands.
We also anticipate that our recovery in North America land activity will fall well short of reaching previous levels hence extending the period of weak pricing.
In the international market we expect 2015 E&amp;P spend to fall around 15% which will create challenges in terms of both activity and pricing levels but considerably less than the headwinds seen in North America.
The reduction in international spend will be seen primarily through lower activity levels but also with some pricing impact for basic technologies and with a continuation of the already observed shift from exploration-related services towards more development activity.
In terms of geography we expect the G to C states of the Middle East to increase investments in 2015 as the core part of OPEC prepares to recoup market share as the rest of the global supply base continues to weaken.
Elsewhere we expect to see a double-digit reduction in E&amp;P investment levels in Latin America led by Mexico and Brazil.
In Europe and Africa led by the North Sea and Sub-Sahara Africa.
And in Asia led by China Malaysia and Australia.
In Russia conventional land activity in western Siberia continues to be resilient but the overall revenue contribution from Russia will remain subdued until there is a meaningful recovery in the ruble exchange rate.
While the global fall in activity level is severe we remain focused on the things we can control which are our cost and resource base the effective deployment of our technology and expertise and the quality and integrity of the products and services we provide.
We remain confident in our ability to weather the storm better than our surroundings based on our favorable international leverage our fair technology leadership in North America shale and the acceleration of our transformation program.
These elements will together create the platform that should allow us to increase revenue market share from slower earnings per share reductions that our peers in the coming quarters and continue to reduce working capital and CapEx intensity while delivering on matched levels of free cash flow.
Thank you very much.
We will now open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
First question is from Ole Slorer.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks a lot and congrats with some pretty magnificent effects on the efficiency initiatives that you're implementing.
But my opening question would be Paal if you could just update us on your macro thoughts the same way as you did on the previous two quarters? And your comments that the markets might be tightening in the second half of the year particularly with respect to how you see non-OPEC non-U.S.
that 50 million barrel a day bracket be affected by the lack of investment that we've seen over the past couple of years? So our view on the macro hasn't really changed compared to what we said both on the October and January call.
First of all the 2015 oil demand remains strong.
And I was actually right [indiscernible] in the latest IA report.
It would now be about 1.1 million barrels per day.
While on the supply side we continue to see the market share battle playing out globally.
Now the key question as we discussed before is when and where the large cuts in E&amp;P investment is going to show up in the supply numbers.
And the latest production data from March is now showing the first signs of a tightening in supply.
And we're basically looking at three main indicators.
The first one is the core OPEC spare capacity which was down by 400 000 barrels in March to 2.5 million barrels.
The other one is the one you alluded to which is the non-NAM and OPEC production which showed a slight weakening in the first quarter versus the first quarter of last year.
And given the reduction in E&amp;P spend internationally; we expect this weakening to continue throughout this year.
And the third one which everyone is looking at is the U.S.
monthly sequential production which is now showing the first signs of flattening.
So based on this as we said in January we expect the global supply to continue to tighten in the second half of this year so really no major change to our view on the macro.
And the follow-up question will just be on where you think you stand on your goals that you outlined at the analyst day last summer? I think you mentioned that you expected to be in the sixth to seventh inning or something like that by 2017.
But it looks as if things are going at lot faster.
So just in terms of this understanding the momentum and how much more there is to -- juice there is to squeeze out of this lemon could you give us your latest view on that? So if you look at how we're driving business performance today which a lot of the focus is around managing decrementals there is really three components that are part of driving this performance.
First is the transformation of the mindset of our entire organization where we have in the past couple years taken teamwork and the tightness of the chain of command to a completely new level.
So this allows us now to plan and execute and also to adjust with great pace and agility all right And this is the process that had been going on for a number of years.
And I think it really demonstrated the -- our capabilities coming from this transformation and in the first quarter.
Now the second is just diligent focus on basic cost and resource management.
And this includes both our internal cost structures as well as the third party spend.
And although we did well in the first quarter in this area as well these efforts are going to continue into the second quarter.
And then the third one is really the one that you're referring to which is the structural transformation of how we run the entire company.
And here we said we would be in the sixth to seventh inning in 2017.
I would say that today we're probably in the third inning if you want to stick to baseball terminology.
It's a multi-year program.
It's going to bring a steady contribution to our performance and we're today active in looking to accelerate the pace of this implementation and there is a great pool from the entire organization now to accelerate this and I'm very pleased with the overall progress in terms of how we're doing.
Thank you.
Next question from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
I wanted to actually reference your presentation of a few weeks ago which I thought was one of the better efforts not only from Schlumberger but just from any industry participant in some time so first of all with regard to a question regarding business model.
You've referenced this in your earnings release you've also referenced it several times being prepared to move to more risk-based business models.
And specifically the significant opportunity associated with the re-fracking of older wells.
So what kind of uptake are you seeing with regard to the re-fracking opportunity? And when you describe this as a significant opportunity can you quantify what that means in terms of how large it is? If you look at the work we've done so far and we posted some of the recent results in the earnings press release this quarter a lot of the re-frack focus so far has been around being able to identify the candidates.
And that's based on our understanding of the existing completions and the potential that these still hold.
And then the other part is around how do you effectively do the refracturing while minimizing the costs.
So we have to our engineer completion and our shale formation evaluation capabilities as well as BroadBand Sequence now established that growth technology offering.
So in terms of how many wells I would say there are thousands of wells in North America land that are candidates for refracturing and this is both shale liquids and shale gas.
In terms of the market potential I think you're talking billions in terms of revenue opportunities over an extended period of time.
But this is quite a significant market opportunity.
And I think the key here is that we're so confident in our ability to identify the right candidates and execute the refracturing work that we're prepared to take significant risks in terms of how we go about doing this work.
In many cases if we can select the candidates prepare to foot the entire bill for the refracturing work and then get paid back in production.
Okay and then second question is more of a macro question.
Again referencing back to this presentation that you did a couple weeks ago -- the global drilling intensity slide in which you juxtaposed the 2014 production numbers from the big three liquids producers roughly the same at about 11 million barrels per day.
But significantly different levels of drilling activity to generate that output.
36 000 wells U.S.
8 700 for Russia and 399 for Saudi Arabia.
And you also mentioned a host of markets that you didn't identify but significantly lower than the U.S.
with regard to drilling intensity.
So you stated that basically required level of drilling intensity for many of the Markets to keep production flat.
But the question that I have is not only to keep production flat but the production -- the flexibility and the wherewithal to increase production with increased drilling intensity.
Can you speak to that please? What they're saying with that slide is that over time basins mature.
And in order to firstly maintain production and subsequently increase production which I think in many of the land basins we will be looking to do that in the coming years you will have to increase drilling intensity.
That's the basic message.
So I think you're seeing that increase in drilling intensity happening in many basins around the world today.
The drilling intensity is obviously generally far below what we're seeing today in North America land.
But that's basically because in most of the other basins we're still working within the conventional resource base.
And as you move from the conventional towards more unconventional you will also generally see an increase in drilling intensity from that.
But I would say even in the conventional basin there is a growing drilling intensity which we're now looking to capitalize on both through the subsurface integration of the [indiscernible] assembly as well as now going forward with our focusing on establishing our read on the future.
Thank you.
We'll go to Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse Securities.
Please go ahead.
Relative to Bill's question I guess I find the most fascinating thing about the call today is you're willing to propose a range of different business models take some incremental technology risk and you talk about a new way of working together.
So we're not just talking re-frack market in the U.S.
You're sounding like a whole new business model of how service companies and oil companies will operate in the future? I don't mean to sound too Star Treky.
But you're proposing something other than -- in the past companies have been willing to take participation or risk at the bottom of a cycle.
But you're talking about a structural change in the industry it sounds like.
I do yes.
And I think it's going to be very important for the overall performance of the industry that all the players that have something to contribute not only to the implementation and execution part of the work we do.
But also to how we design the solutions of what we're looking to build and develop that they're all invited to the table.
And I would say still remaining humble.
I think we from the Schlumberger side we have a lot to contribute when it comes to supporting the design decisions that many of our customers take for major drilling and completions developments.
There is no question that you have more expertise than most any other oil company.
But having worked for both oil companies and service companies service company comes to me in the oil company and says let me show you a better way to do stuff.
The first reaction is I got engineers that know how to do it.
So this is pretty much a change in psychology if you would or how the industry operates.
You're talking about this isn't a quick implementation I would think but over time? No it's not a quick implementation and it's not something that we can do by ourselves.
And currently I think it's very clear.
We're not saying that we can do the work our customers are doing better.
But I think given the capabilities that we have I think we're underutilized today.
And we have a lot more to contribute even into the design elements of the work that is related to our expertise.
And I think by being invited to the table to contribute complementing what they are doing I think we can achieve improvements in design and engineer costs out of the system before we go to implementation.
And by factoring in our implementation or execution capabilities in the design I think we can also simplify and streamline the execution part of the work as well.
So this is something that we're going to offer Jim.
Some of our customers might take us up on it and some of the others might not and for the ones that are not we will continue to work the way we're currently doing.
But I think this is something that we believe can bring significant value and something that we're prepared to take on and also put some more skin in the game.
Thank you.
David Anderson with Barclays.
Your line is open.
A related question what Jim was asking.
I was wondering more specifically around offshore development and exploration.
Obviously with lower oil prices it is a really challenging market right now.
Some would even say the IOC business model is broken.
It looks to us like maybe in a couple years this could be in a slowdown here.
So I'm just wondering this is a pretty big part of your business.
Schlumberger's oil -- the services part in the scheme of things is in a huge park.
Can you just help us under -- give us a bit of a road map for how you think some of the IOCs are going to navigate to the deepwater and exploration? And how you see this progressing in order to get this fixed? I think if you look at deepwater first this represents a huge resource base for the industry.
Now given the level of development cost today as well as given the level of recovery factors we're seeing today the cost per barrel for these type of developments is challenged.
So there has to be a change in overall in how these developments are done.
We have to get the costs down and we also have to drive recovery up.
And if you can do both I think a large part of the reserve base and the discovery base that we have established over the past decade in deepwater can and will be developed.
So I think this is the challenge that the industry has and we're prepared to contribute towards finding the right solutions.
And I think when the industry really puts their mind to something we will find a solution and it will be sorted out.
As to the [Technical Difficulty] separation I think the play book we're seeing now is the normal one.
Exploration is the first thing that can be cut which is not going to have a short-term and immediate impact on production.
Looking at the current levels of exploration spend today it is clearly unsustainable.
I don't think it's going to get fixed or improved any time soon or at least not in 2015.
But it is very clear that this level of exploration spend is not going to continue for many years.
Okay.
And a separate topic on talking about the North America you've talked about how the rig count won't go back to peak levels and I think we can all agree upon that.
You talked a lot about the commentary around re-fracking opportunities.
And clearly you see that as a big opportunity going forward.
But what are some of the other structural trends that you think are influencing that view? What are the other components that as you think about North America and I'm not sure if you can give us an idea of where you think that rig count can be a normalized rig count if you will.
But can you talk about some of the other factors structurally that are impacting that view? I think if you look at what's taken place over the past three or four years in shale liquids in North America there has been a significant growth in activity and there has been a growing free cash flow deficit for the E&amp;P industry.
So that's clearly not a sustainable way of the whole industry to operate here.
Now with that said I think there's a core part of the North America shale liquids that is viable even at the current oil prices and this will continue to be developed.
Now as we go forward as the industry continues to improve.
I would say both on the cost side -- although a lot has already been done -- but even more so on the production per well.
I think there can be a growing part of the -- I would say tier 2 and tier 3 acreage that can be developed.
But as of now I think we're limited more to the tier 1 acreage at these type of oil prices.
And that's why we're saying that given the cash flow constraints we don't expect that rig counts are going to come back to the previous levels of around 2000.
It's going to come back to somewhere in between the current levels and where it was.
And for the service industry that means that the pricing concessions that are currently being given we unfortunately are going to have to live with for a while because there's going to be a pretty significant order capacity for all sorts of services given the lower activity level that we're going to recover to.
Next question is from Jim Crandell with Cowen Securities.
Please go ahead.
My question has to do with the overall trend in international revenues and margins for here.
If we look back at past cycles often the international business trends materially lag that of North America.
I understand some things are different this time.
But might we be looking at generally a deteriorating overall level of E&amp;P spend? And maybe even Schlumberger revenue over the next 12 months? If you look at our view on total E&amp;P spend globally splitting it into North America and international we're saying that the reduction in spending internationally is going to be significantly lower than what you see in North America.
North America is going to be well above 30% and while we're saying around 15% for international.
So I think the key beyond what the spend reduction is -- and we're already seeing that spend reduction.
And by the way international spend was more or less flat already in 2014.
I think the key from our side is the underestimated I would say resilience in our international business performance.
If you look at how we've been managing to keep margins and also to continue to protect our overall earnings capacity in the international business we're doing a pretty good job.
And I think even with a 15% reduction in E&amp;P spend our revenues year-over-year was down 8% in the first quarter and our operating income was down 3%.
So the key areas are our ability to continue to generate earnings even in very challenging market conditions.
Do you think that the -- given your comments have you seen your overall bottom in international revenues? Or do you think your overall international revenues will probably trend lower from the first quarter levels? Yes at this stage we see both North America and international revenue coming down further in Q2 [indiscernible].
But I would say more so in North America than in international.
And do you think that that will represent the bottom? Or do you think there could be further slippage in revenues particularly internationally in the second half of the year? I would say that the revenue reductions in Q2 are slowing in pace.
I'm not ready to say that it's the bottom yet.
Thank you.
We'll go to Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
If I could follow up quickly on this re-frack opportunity.
I'm curious as to what the suite of services are? And how they differ from a conventional primary frack job? I imagine it's a lot more analysis involved.
Can you just walk us through what the work flow looks like? And the level of intellectual capital that's employed in the process? Yes sure.
So the overall work flow starts with us basically getting the well files and the well data from the operator.
Our team of experts is then reviewing hundreds of candidate wells and we're taking the ones that we believe have the highest potential for increasing production after re-fracking treatment.
So they're looking at the completion.
They are looking at whatever formation evaluation data we have and then coming up with our candidate selection.
Now in terms of the actual physical work execution at the well site the first thing we need to do is to pull the pump out of the well and then prepare the well.
But beyond that it's just hooking up the fracturing treatment.
And we basically pump a normal fracturing job but with a BroadBand Sequence [indiscernible] space into the job.
Generally then flooding off the existing perforations that have already been fracked to be able to elevate the pressure in the well to fracture the additional perforations that initially weren't fracked when the well was first completed.
So the key enablers here are the ability of our subsurface experts to identify the right well candidates.
And in addition to that the BroadBand Sequence the technology where we can actually divert fracturing fluid into the perforations that haven't properly been fractured in the first place.
And is there any limitation in terms of the initial completion the hardware the construction of that well? Any physical limitation? No.
If I could ask a follow-up for Simon real quick.
Just on the working capital numbers.
The receivable turns looked pretty good but working capital use in the first quarter was still pretty high.
Is that inventory? Can you delve into that a little bit Simon? Normally we have seasonality to the working capital and the first quarter is a quarter where we consume working capital.
And this year around actually the receivable was a positive.
Inventory stayed flattish but the biggest consumption was on the accounts payable and employee payable.
The first quarter we basically meet all of the requirements of the incentives the bonuses of the previous year.
And as we highlighted we also had the payment associated with the restructuring of $245 million.
So the main impact on the working capital came from the other elements that I highlighted.
So over $1 billion by the way Michael.
Yes that $245 million was in that then as well? The $245 million was a restructuring cost with Venezuela obviously it's not the cash element.
The biggest issue is as I mentioned accounts payable and employee payable was more than $1 billion of deterioration.
And then Simon Paal mentioned 75% plus free cash flow conversion as a target.
The Free Cash Flow deployment in the repurchase program was also impressively high.
Is there a target there that we can apply going forward? So as we always said Michael the number or the amount that we will spend on the buyback is always a balancing number.
Our priority is to invest in the business whether it's CapEx or future revenue stream SPM multi-client.
And then the dividend obviously we will continue to meet our commitment and revise it every year.
And the balancing period will always be the buyback.
And during the downturn the conversion rate you know is always helping.
Higher yes.
Yes.
Thank you.
Next question is from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
It's great to see when everything -- the whole plan comes into fruition and everything you outlined last year at your June energy investor day so congrats on that performance.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
The follow-up question that I've been having and we had an opportunity to canvas a number of different investors last night and it still seems the primary question on everybody's mind from this point forward is how sustainable is this relative performance on decrementals? I think you addressed it broadly in your commentary about the execution and transformation and so on.
And I think the million-dollar question out there is are the decremental margins going to moderate into the second quarter and then second half of the year from where they are in the first quarter? And in conjunction with that how much of this decremental margin performance has really been say "one-off"? Or how much of this decremental performance is truly structural in nature? If we focus in our discussion on decrementals around international business right where our decrementals sequentially in Q1 was 25% I think this performance is -- first of all nothing one-off in that performance.
And secondly that performance is not just one quarter either.
I think the overall resilience in our well-balanced international business is largely underestimated.
Actually if you look at the performance going back to 2012 we posted 35% incrementals in 2012 42% in 2013 and 69% in 2014.
So the fact that we have a very good handle of running the international business in an environment where we've been facing growing headwinds throughout this period both in exploration in deepwater and seismic.
And also with significant IOC spend costs even starting in 2014 I think these incrementals clearly show that the decrementals we're posting in Q1 is just a continuation of a multi-year run of improving business performance.
Now the follow-up I would have is you talk about -- you outlined a view that the U.S.
recovery will not match prior activity levels in a period of pricing pressure could be upon us for a period of time.
Now in the context the re-frack -- and I'm just trying to connect the dots.
Because if there's a significant amount of re-frack that's going to happen I would have personally thought that that would lead to a more rapid capacity absorption period and potentially a faster recovery period in terms of pricing because everyone is going to get all this backlog of re-frack.
So can you just -- I might be a little bit slow.
Can you help me connect the dots on how re-fracking won't lead to an acceleration in capacity absorption? And get your thoughts on that would be great.
I think for the re-frack this work scope I think is going to be limited to the companies that can do the two things that I stated earlier.
Firstly help the customers identify the right candidate.
And secondly have technologies that make the cost base of the refracturing feasible and economical.
And based on the work we've done in terms of identifying candidates during trials re-fracks for a range of customers already the economics based on the BroadBand Sequence technology is actually quite attractive in between re-fracking an old well or drilling a new well.
So I think it would be limited to the companies that have that capability.
Now even if there were a range of companies that could do it I still think that this market overall in terms of absorbing capacity isn't going to fix the problem.
So if you look at the overall activity that we had last year where we had about 2000 rigs operating we're down now below 1000.
If you take a pick anywhere in between the two numbers of where the recovery is going to come back no matter what number you pick I think it's very clear that it's going to be significant over-capacity in the market.
And that means that pricing that is now already at very low levels is not going to improve in that situation.
So re-frack is an opportunity for the companies that have the right technology to it.
I don't think it's going to have a big enough impact to fix the overall capacity issue in North America land.
But it will be I think a very good avenue of growth for the companies that can identify the right candidates and also have the technology to effectively re-frack while keeping costs low enough to make it economical.
Thank you.
We'll go to Daniel Boyd with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
So Paal you'll typically gain market share in a downturn and you're looking for E&amp;P spend internationally down 15%.
So should we take that and suggest that Schlumberger is going -- to revenues will decline something less than 15% this year? I think we have some good opportunities this year to gain market share.
We talked about that in the January call.
I think the -- this whole discussion around what we perceive to be the glass ceiling in the international market will potentially open up more market share opportunities for us.
I think also given the fact that we're able to run a very good and very effective business internationally would also allow us opportunities to leverage that capability to further gain market share as well.
So we're not going to be obsessed about market share other than we're going to look for the opportunities.
And we want to continue to navigate the commercial landscape by balancing both market share with continuous margin performance.
So that's what I would expect too.
And then if you do the algebra it implies sequential growth internationally in the back half of this year.
But my question really comes down to international margins because last cycle we saw international margins bleed lower even as revenues started increasing.
What's your thought process? Or how do you think this cycle plays out? Are we in a different position whereas revenue increases we could actually have slightly higher margins? Or is the pricing -- negative pricing impact going to bleed through again? We're already seeing challenges both in activity and pricing and it's not the market.
Obviously with these significant spend reductions that's always going to be there.
I think the difference we're seeing at this stage is that based on these incrementals that I referenced just in the previous question our ability to continuously drive performance to how we execute internationally and leveraging the scale we have of operations.
And also have a steady contribution from the transformation that is what is allowing us to hold margins up the way they are.
We have significantly outperformed our competitors in margins over the previous two or three years and this has just got nothing to do with pricing.
Every bid on lowest price for basic technologies in any country around the world the only thing that differentiates us from the competition is that we're able to translate this revenue into higher margins basically based on how we run the company.
So we're always winning any bid on the lowest price.
And we have to be commercially competitive.
But the key here is the internal [indiscernible] of the company and how we run and execute.
And I think that ability has improved significantly over the past three or four years.
And that's why we hope that we should be able to manage both decrementals and overall margins better this time around in the international market than what we've done in previous cycles.
So in other words as revenue increases you hope to at a minimum maintain your margin level at that point? We're continuing to try to do better than what we did in previous cycles yes.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of James West with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
I was wanting to ask about BroadBand Sequence and I spent a lot of time with your technology guys last month in Houston.
How much of that business now is a push model being you going to your clients and talking to them about the attributes of that versus a pull model where the clients are actually coming to you saying we need this technology? I still think there is a mixture that any new technology in North America land the uptake takes some time.
But what we did differently this time around with broadband in general versus what we did with HiWAY is that in the third quarter last year myself and a few of my chiefs we went around to a range of North American E&amp;P companies and presented the concept of this technology and also offered them trial runs to try this out.
And that's why the general uptake of BroadBand Sequence has been significantly faster than what HiWAY was which was always actually quite good as well in 2011.
But the rate of uptake of BroadBand Sequence has been significantly higher than what HiWAY was.
Okay got it.
And then just an unrelated follow-up we think about the international markets and I know you touched a lot on the U.S.
market and production there.
But internationally that's a pretty heavy decline rates as well a lack of investment international markets.
What do you see as the potential for a significant drop in supply from the international side? And on that topic is it possible not to be bullish on at least brent prices going forward? I think you're right.
We believe that there is a weakness in the non-NAM non-OPEC supply base.
It was basically flat Q1 year-over-year.
But given the reductions we're seeing in spend and the weakness in several of the key basins we expect that weakness to continue and potentially increase as the year progresses and I think that's why we believe that there will be some recovery in Brent.
The question is to what extent OPEC wants or is willing to put more barrels on the market to stabilize prices at some level below $100.
Thank you.
We'll turn it back to our speakers.
Thank you.
So before we close I would like to thank all of you for participating in today's call.
As your questions have indicated you're all concerned that this market is quite challenging at the moment.
I think it's useful to summarize the three most important points that we have discussed this morning.
First the past quarter has been challenging to manage.
But by being able to quickly adjust plans and by continuing to focus on what we control we have delivered significantly better decremental margins compared to previous cycles.
And our international leverage and the acceleration of our transformation program are together creating a strong platform for financial out-performance also going forward.
Second we believe that the industry needs to think differently in order to reduce project costs and increase project value.
And we see closer collaboration between operators and the large service companies as a key element in achieving this goal.
And this closer collaboration should also include more performance-based contracting models which we're fully prepared to enter into.
And last while we continue to actively manage cost and resources throughout this downturn by streamlining overhead structures and reducing field capacity we can quickly add back capacity when opportunities arise to take on more work.
Through the efficiency gains created by our transformation program and through our unmatched recruiting and training machine which is fully intact.
That concludes the call for today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
For the conference all the participant lines are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions; instructions will be given at that time.
And as a reminder today's call is being recorded.
I'll turn the conference now over to the Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited second quarter 2015 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from London where the Schlumberger Limited board meeting took place yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paul.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paul will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind our participants that some of the information in today's call may include forward-looking statements as well as non-GAAP financial measures.
A detailed disclaimer and other important information is included in the earnings press release on our website.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
I will now turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Second quarter earnings per share from continuing operations excluding charges and credits was $0.88.
This represents decreases of $0.18 sequentially and $0.49 when compared to the same quarter last year.
Our second quarter revenue of $9 billion decreased 12% sequentially.
Despite the very challenging environment pre-tax operating margins only declined by 49 basis points sequentially.
This resulted in decremental margins of just 23% which is a result of continued strong and proactive cost management across the entire organization.
Sequential highlights by product group were as follows: second quarter reservoir characterization revenue of $2.4 billion decreased 5% sequentially.
This decrease was largely driven by Wireline and Testing as a result of lower exploration spending.
Pre-tax operating margins decreased 84 basis points to 26.5% as an impact of the lower exploration activities was offset by increased higher margin software sales.
Drilling Group revenue of $3.5 billion decreased 11% primarily due to the further significant drop in the North America rig count.
Margins remained resilient at 19.5% as the strong cost management limited the margin decline to only 44 basis points.
Production Group revenue of $3.1 billion decreased 18% sequentially as both activity and pricing for pressure pumping services in North America fell dramatically.
Despite the severe revenue decline margins only fell by 179 basis points to 12.8%.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole the effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 21.1% in the second quarter.
This was essentially flat when compared to the previous quarter.
Our cash flow generation continues to be very strong.
During the second quarter we generated $2.3 billion of cash flow from operations.
During the first half of 2015 we have generated $4.1 billion of cash flow from operations.
This is all despite making severance payments of approximately $200 million during the second quarter and almost $0.5 billion during the first six months of the year.
Net debt increased $111 million during the quarter to $5.6 billion.
During the quarter we spent $520 million to repurchase 5.8 million shares at an average price of $90 per share.
We spent $587 million on CapEx during the second quarter.
Full-year 2015 CapEx excluding multiclient and SPM investments is still expected to be approximately $2.5 billion.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paul.
Thank you Simon and good morning everyone.
Schlumberger revenue decreased 12% sequentially in the second quarter driven by a significant reduction in land activity in the U.S.
as the rig count decline accelerated and by further pricing erosion in both North America and the international area.
North America revenue fell 27% sequentially while international revenue was 5% lower as customer budget cuts and pricing concessions impacted results for a full quarter.
Despite the challenging market conditions overall pre-tax operating margins were maintained well above the levels of previous downturns as we continue to proactively manage costs and resources carefully navigate the commercial landscape and further accelerate our transformation program throughout the organization.
The success of this approach can be seen in a double-digit pre-tax operating margin in North America and an international margin of 24.5% which is 35 basis points up sequentially and 44 basis points up year-over-year.
In the first half of 2015 year-over-year revenue has now dropped 26% in North America and 14% internationally.
These levels exceed those of the 2009 downturn in both pace and size.
Still we have delivered first half decremental margins of 37% in North America and just 18% in the international area.
These decremental margins represents a marked improvement over the equivalent figures from the last downturn which were in excess of 70% particularly as we begin to approach what we believe is the market bottom.
While the market remains tough we also believe we have been successful in adapting to a rapidly changing situation as far as the size of our work force is concerned.
The absence of charges in the second quarter is evidence of this as the adjustments made in the second quarter were absorbed in our normal operating costs.
In terms of corporate financial performance we also generated almost $1.5 billion in free cash flow in the second quarter.
This figure which represents a conversion rate of 132% of the quarter's earnings into free cash flow demonstrates our ability to generate free cash even in these market conditions.
Looking at our results on a geographical basis North American revenue decreased 27% sequentially a figure greater than the 25% sequential decrease seen in the first quarter and again significantly lower than the fall in the land rig count which was down 40% sequentially in North America land.
In spite of this drop operating margins in North America decreased by only 268 basis points sequentially leaving our margins 465 basis points higher than the same period of the 2009 downturn.
The strength of this performance was underpinned by our proactive approach to cost and resource management the growing impact of our transformation program strong new technology sales and efficient supply chain management all together limiting the sequential decremental margins to 20%.
In U.S.
land activity was down in all basins in the second quarter with the rig count dropping below 860 for most of the month of June.
In addition to the significant reduction in rig count poor weather conditions with floods in Texas Arkansas and Alaska also drove activity lower in the second quarter.
The dramatic reduction in activity in U.S.
land has created a massive capacity oversupply in the service industry with pricing quickly plummeting to unsustainable levels in particular for pressure pumping where many companies now are desperately fighting to survive.
Our approach to the market remain unchanged in the second quarter where we concentrate our activity in core areas and for key customers and where we beyond this proceed with stacking of equipment rather than operating with large losses.
We continue to maintain our overall infrastructure and long-term service capacity and we are working closely with our customers to help produce cost per barrel through better operational efficiency and reliability and through the application of new technology work flows and business models.
Based on this approach we will ramp up our activity for opportunities that bring the required returns.
The strength of our technology portfolio the range of our work flow solutions and the depth of our shale understanding also enables us to pursue performance-based contracts where we initially underwrite the incremental cost of our technology and where we recover this cost plus the performance upside from incremental well production.
In Western Canada activity was also down significantly in the second quarter with the rig count falling by 66% sequentially impacted by the early spring break-up and with the recovery expected to be limited during the summer months.
Offshore in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico deepwater rig activity was down in the second quarter and activity was also impacted by loop currents while pack ice of Eastern Canada also impacted our drilling and seismic operations in the second quarter.
Offshore revenue was further impacted by the expected shift in service mix from exploration to development and completions as well as increasing pricing pressure.
However the primary driver for offshore success continues to be risk reduction and project performance and we are therefore fully engaged with our customers to help reduce overall AFE costs through better project planning and execution.
In the international markets revenue declined by 5% sequentially driven by further budget cuts from our customers as well as further pricing concession.
For the first half of the year revenue has now dropped 14% compared to last year a figure that is more than doubled the 5% fall experienced over the same timeframe in the 2009 downturn.
Second quarter operating margins of 24.5% was up 35 basis points sequentially and 44 basis points year-over-year as first half decremental margins were held to 18% compared to 73% over the same period in the 2009 downturn.
These results fully demonstrate our leadership in the international markets which is built on flawless execution from the entire organization proactive cost and resource management and the acceleration of our transformation program focused on work force productivity asset utilization and reduction in unit support costs.
In this environment we focus on carefully balancing market share growth with protection of operating margin and by negotiating pricing concessions in return for additional work integration opportunities or improved contract terms knowing from experience that any permanent pricing concessions that we make will be very hard to recover even as market conditions improve.
Within the international areas Middle East and Asia revenue declined by 5% sequentially while pre-tax operating margins improved 8 basis points to 28.7%.
Activity remained robust in the GCC region however strength in Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates and Kuwait was not sufficient to offset weakness in the Asia-Pacific region.
Year-on-year revenue decreased by 13% while margins expanded by 87 basis points.
In the Middle East region our lump sum turnkey project in Saudi Arabia continued to gain momentum during the quarter however our overall results were not immune to the customer pricing concessions we gave in the first quarter.
In the United Arab Emirates drilling and production related activity increased as work on the SARB North Island project ramped up and with further rig additions expected over the coming quarters.
Drilling activity was also stronger in Kuwait as the rig count increased in line with the country's strategic production targets while unique land seismic activity grew with improved operational productivity.
In Iraq revenues in the north declined further in the second quarter while activity in the south of the country remained flat sequentially but it's expected to increase in the second half of the year on the back of recent contract win.
In Southeast Asia activity fell in Australia as projects were completed both on land and offshore while activity in Malaysia declined as customer budget reductions affected both OpEx and CapEx investment.
In Latin America revenue declined 7% sequentially while pre-tax operating margins improved 81 basis points to 22.3%.
Revenue was impacted once again by decreasing activity in Mexico Brazil and Colombia however somewhat offset by increased activity in Venezuela.
Year-on-year revenue decreased 17% and margins grew by 111 basis points.
In Mexico revenue decreased significantly in the second quarter on further customer budget cuts that impacted both onshore and offshore activity.
And in spite of new contract wins for both seismic and integrated well construction the outlook for the second half of the year remains challenging.
At the same time the energy reform continues to progress on plan with the first major licensed award being announced in the third quarter.
Offshore activity in Brazil remained weak with the deepwater rig count being down significantly versus the first quarter while in Colombia the activity slowdown continued and now affects all product line.
In the Venezuela Trinidad and Tobago GeoMarkets increased activity was driven by exploration work in Suriname and Guyana while joint ventures in the Faja region of Venezuela continued to ramp up.
Elsewhere in South America revenue in Argentina remained resilient as growth in conventional activity partially offset pricing pressure for unconventional services.
At the same time SPM activity remains strong in Ecuador as the Shushufindi project continue to perform in line with expectations and with activity and production starting up on the new Kamana SPM project.
In Europe CIS and Africa revenue fell 5% sequentially with margins edging off by 29 basis points to 21.3%.
Year-on-year revenue decreased 26% and margins dropped by 85 basis points.
Within the area revenue increased in Russia and Central Asia driven by the seasonal recovery of conventional land activity and as the ruble strengthened somewhat.
In the North Sea the shift from exploration to development related activity continued while customer budget pressure both in the U.K.
and Norway resulted in lower sales of new technology.
In Sub-Saharan Africa both development and exploration activity was down sequentially as customer budget pressure resulted in several active rigs being demobilized.
And in Algeria activity was slightly up sequentially while work in Libya was limited as the security situation remained very challenging.
One year ago at our 2014 investor conference we told you about our transformation program which is designed to provide a new approach to how we run our business in order to enable fundamentally better performance.
Our transformation leverages the drivers of technology innovation equipment reliability process efficiency and system integration all together delivering better management of costs better quality of products and service delivery and better generation of free cash flow.
While we set goals for new technologies and increasing elements of service integration we also target a 10-fold reduction in customer non-productive time a doubling in asset utilization a 25% reduction in inventory days a 20% increase in workforce productivity and a 10% lowering of unit support costs.
I am very pleased with the progress we have made one year later.
While the transformation was designed to deliver our performance in any part of the cycle the current market conditions have enabled us to increase customer dialogue and to accelerate the program throughout our global organization.
The strength of our international margins so far this year is one demonstration of the performance impact from our transformation while the resilience in our North American margins is another proof point.
In terms of costs our figures show that we are managing all aspects very well including both fixed and variable compensation as well as the cost of product and service delivery.
In terms of quality the investments we have made in training new technology and enabling systems are now really starting to pay off as can be seen by our second quarter quality results where we set the new record low in terms of non-productive time incurred for our customers.
Last in terms of cash the reduction in CapEx intensity and the discipline we have shown with respect to managing working capital has delivered a very strong free cash flow in the first half of the year with a cash conversion rate of 98% including severance payment which is well above our 75% target.
Turning now to the overall outlook for the second half of the year visibility still remains limited.
However some tentative signs of change are emerging.
On the supply side of the oil markets the global market share battle between OPEC and the high-cost producers is still playing out with the first signs of flattening North America production starting to show.
Within OPEC production in the second quarter was at the highest level for three years as marketed supply was again increased at the expense of lower core spare capacity which in June dropped to 2.3 million barrels per day.
In addition to this non-NAM non-OPEC production weakened in the first half of the year by 650 000 barrels per day driven by Brazil and Mexico with the further softening expected in the second half of the year as the lower investment levels in many regions start to take full effect.
Against these supply figures global oil demand growth continues to strengthen with the IEA having revised its 2015 estimate up to 1.4 million barrels per day during the second quarter.
These factors all points to a potential tightening in the global supply demand balance in the coming quarters.
Turning to our industry the largest drop in E&amp;P investments is as expected occurring in North America where 2015 spend will now largely be down by more than 35% driven by both pricing and activity on land.
We do believe that the North American rig count has now reached bottom but that we will only see a slow increase in drilling and completion activity in the second half of the year which will not make any material dent in the massive overcapacity that has been created.
This again means that there will be little to no improvement in pricing levels and hence the market will still remain very challenging for the foreseeable future.
In the international market E&amp;P spending is now expected to fall more than 15% driven by lower activity in most regions and further amplified by a very strong dollar in particular versus the Russian ruble and the Venezuelan bolivar.
Given the nature of the business in the international markets we do not expect any upward adjustment to existing customer budgets for the second half of 2015.
Instead we see a continuation of the trends from the first half with very low exploration activity tight management of development related spend and continued pricing pressure for our products and services.
However we do expect that any improvement in oil prices in the second half of the year will potentially lead to increased investment levels in 2016 or through exploration and development related activity.
In the midst of the current market challenges we remain focused on the things we can control including our cost and resource base the effective deployment of our technology and expertise and the quality and integrity of the products and services we provide to our customers.
The success of this approach is enabling us to maintain solid international margins despite a significant drop in activity and at the same time also allowing us to maximize our performance in North America.
We remain very confident in our capacity to weather the current downturn better than our surroundings and also significantly better than what we have done in previous downturns.
Our global strength our technology differentiation and our accelerated corporate transformation is creating a great platform for us to increase revenue market share post lower earnings per share reductions than our peers and continue to reduce working capital and CapEx intensity to deliver unmatched levels of free cash flow.
And at the same time this financial strength positions us well to take advantage of increasing market opportunities resulting from the current market environment.
Thank you very much.
We will now open up for Q&amp;A.
And first with the line of Ole Slorer with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
And thank you very much and I think you're going to make it a difficult weekend for some of your peers since they ponder what they're going to say next week.
But...
Thank you.
I wonder whether we could revisit your macro view.
Are you more confident or less confident that the oil markets are tightening than what you were a quarter ago given the most recent IEA report and some of the resolutions around previously sanctioned countries? Well I think our view on the macro and our confidence in the tightening I think is relatively unchanged.
We've been saying now I think for a number of quarters that we see solid oil demand growth.
And again this was revised upwards again this year to 1.4 million barrels during the second quarter.
And we've also said that with a certain lag the large cuts in E&amp;P investments are going to show up in the supply numbers.
And we see it in particular in non-NAM and OPEC which has showed a gradual weakening over the first six months of this year.
U.S.
monthly sequential production is flattening and the core OPEC spare capacity was also down to only 2.3 million barrels in June a million barrels per day.
So I think the tightening that we've been foreshadowing we are still relatively confident that that will happen in the second half of the year.
Yeah good.
On the environment as you highlighted pricing is still tough.
I mean we're at the trough.
But clearly the trough means probably average pricing still rolling down.
And how do you see the say some of the second half pricing and macro headwinds relative to the momentum that you have created within the organization? It's very clear from what you're delivering here that some of the initiatives that you initiated maybe a year ago are really starting to deliver.
But how much more can we expect given what you're already doing? Well I mean you're asking whether our results are sustainable I guess right? So I mean if...
Yeah I mean the headwinds relative to the internal momentum how should we think about it? Well if we take the pricing part of the question first I would agree with you that there is going to be a further impact on pricing in the second half of the year.
We haven't seen the full impact of that.
But I would say that there is probably still more relative impact in North America than what it is in the international markets.
There is going to be impact in both regions in Q3 beyond where we are in Q2 but I think that's relatively larger in North America.
As to our ability to offset this the transformation and the general way that we are managing the company and the focus we have on cost and resource management through this we are going to continue to create a financial leverage over the coming years.
And we are going to take that leverage out in two forms.
We will take it out through market share gains by being able to be even more competitive on price.
And secondly we'll take the other part out through very strong incrementals when we grow.
Or alternatively very strong decrementals when we shrink.
So what we talked about in 2014 at the Investor Day in terms of what the transformation represents for the company say in the next five-year horizon it is there.
We are accelerating the impact from it.
And we see this leverage as something that we will continuously take out in the coming years.
So fundamentally I think the performance that we are posting is sustainable.
It's not going to be a straight line.
But overall what we are doing now is not a fluke.
Okay very impressive.
Thank you very much.
And Simon congratulations with the free cash conversion.
I'll hand it back.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
How do you see the performance-based work evolving in the U.S.? I know you've won projects internationally in the quarter in your SPM work in Ecuador and other places internationally.
But can you talk about the issues with growing that business model in the U.S.? That's a good question.
So I think I would mention two specific things here.
I think firstly what is very positive at this stage is that customers are more and more starting to buy in to the fact that we have technologies and workflows that can create more value.
That is what we've been investing in for the past five years and that is how we wanted to try to create technical differentiation in the largely commoditized North American market.
So with the dialogues we have with customers both on geoengineering completions on refracturing in terms of more sophisticated fracturing fluid systems like broadband it is very clear that the appetites to use new technology and more sophisticated technology is growing.
Now some of the customers would take on that technology on a more of a standard type of contract where we will still get a premium over what basic commodity type of technologies we'll give while other customers will also like to go into a more risk-based contract setup.
We are fine either way.
We are looking to create technology differentiation and I'm very optimistic about our ability to continue to push that forward in the coming quarters even in this business environment.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And my follow-up if I could there has been a great deal made about the slowdown in deepwater project development FID delays and major oil companies moving to onshore.
Yesterday we saw Conoco break a contract on almost a new rig.
Can you talk about what Schlumberger sees in terms of the progress in deepwater development and how that's changed what you expect to see going forward if you would whatever over the next couple of years? Well the immediate thing we see is obviously an impact on deepwater drilling activity.
And this is largely focused in on the exploration side of deepwater.
And that's a it's a pretty significant reduction in that.
Now that is already incorporated or absorbed in our results where they stand today.
In terms of the deepwater projects I think yes there are some projects that are being delayed and some projects being canceled if possible but I think in general these are long-term investments many of them are already deeply committed.
So we don't see any kind of dramatic impact at this stage on the projects that are in the pipeline.
Now going forward in terms of sanctioning new projects I think it's going to be very important for the industry to be able to – the service industry together with our customers to be able to come up with technical solutions and field development plans that significantly reduces cost per barrel.
And if we can do that which is the overall objective for the industry I think we can make many of the pending deepwater projects also economically viable in the future.
Okay gentleman.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Jim.
Our next question is from Angie Sedita with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
I echo certainly a good quarter particularly with the decremental margins.
So Paal can you talk a little bit more about the decrementals? Obviously strong in North America and international but specific to North America can you talk about at least for the Q2 the impact of the transformation efforts versus new technology versus the head count? And also are you seeing better uptakes from the new technologies this cycle than in prior downturns? Yes.
I think basically all the elements that you listed are the contributing factors to the lower decrementals.
So obviously we have a clean quarter this quarter.
There are no charges in it so this is basically straight-line business performance in the second quarter.
And like you said the overall impact on transformation which we started several years earlier in North America is part of driving this.
We started our transformation and reorganization back in 2010.
I would say our North American organization has also been very proactive when it comes to cost and resource management.
And as we just talked about earlier on one of the questions there the uptake of new technology both in North America and international the rate of uptake given the downturn is actually quite strong and actually much higher than what we have seen in any previous downturns.
So I think that comes down to the fact that a lot of the technologies – new technology we now have out have very clear cost and efficiency angles to them which means that they sell equally easy in the downturn as they do in the upturn.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I appreciate the clarity.
And then you referenced it briefly in your remarks regarding the international outlook for 2016 which is obviously very preliminary but based on your recent conversations and thinking through your viewpoints on supply/demand for crude if we are in a $65 Brent world what would your preliminary thoughts or color be on E&amp;P CapEx on the international markets and do you have any color on the region? Well I think it's too early to make any firm predictions on E&amp;P CapEx investments internationally next year.
I would just say that we are relatively confident in the tightening of the supply/demand balance of the second half of the year.
That would under normal circumstances lead to some uptick in the oil price.
And if we see some improvement in the oil price in the second half of this year I don't think there is going to be any huge impact on the current year budget but I think it's a positive indicator that we might have some increase next year.
I don't think the increase in 2016 is going to be large but I think there is a good chance that E&amp;P investment levels next year will be higher than what we've seen in 2015.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll turn it over.
Thank you.
And we'll go to David Anderson with Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thank you.
Paal I just want to ask about Iran.
Obviously assuming there is an Iran deal goes through I just wanted to know if you could highlight a little bit of Schlumberger's service opportunities that opens up over the next few years.
And would you expect IOCs to start moving aggressively in there? Well I think what the IOCs are going to do I think you are going to have to ask them.
I don't know.
Our position and our view on Iran is the following: we have fully exited Iran.
When the sanctions are lifted and when it is permissible we will evaluate going back in.
So beyond that I don't really have anything more to say about what we will do but it's coming down to firstly that the sanction needs to be officially lifted which they are not yet done.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up on the offshore.
Can I get a little bit more detail? You've talked a few times about exploration spending coming down.
I was just wondering if you can just help me understand how you see this exploration cycle playing out say over the next 12 months.
Do you think exploration can bottom by the fourth quarter? And then at these costs you talked about risk reduction in some of these contracts do you think you could start seeing some sort of impact some sort of turnaround in there by mid-2016 or something along those lines? I would say potentially.
We see the exploration spend down potentially around 30% again this year.
That's including seismic probably around the same level.
So that is obviously a dramatic reduction if you look at what we already saw in 2014 right? So yes we might not be too far away from bottom on exploration spend.
But again I don't see any dramatic turnaround immediately.
We could potentially start seeing something towards the second half of 2016 if there is a kind of a gradual uptick of the oil price to at least plus/minus $70.
But nothing on the horizon as we see today.
It's still a very tough market.
And we see this very very clearly in some of our key high tech product lines where our exploration revenue over the past six quarters has actually dropped by 35%.
So I don't think we are too far away from bottom because there's not that much left to cut.
But the comeback I think is still a little bit out in time.
But if you look at the level of spend today versus what is required for the industry to replace reserves and to find new oil field developments we are obviously way under-investing.
So this is not a sustainable situation.
So the uptick will have to come.
It's just that we don't see it on the immediate horizon.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from James West with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning Paal or good afternoon I guess Paal and congratulations on a well executed quarter.
I had a question really related to the technology and technology uptake.
It seems like this cycle is somewhat different than we've seen in previous cycles where the technology uptake is actually greater.
Last year I think 27% of your revenues were from new technologies.
Do you have a sense of – can you give us a number of what in terms of revenues you're seeing in terms of new technology today or maybe the first half of this year? Yeah so what we've seen so far this year in terms of new technology as a percentage of our total technologies or the total revenue is 22%.
Now this is slightly lower than the 25% target that we laid out last year.
But given where we are in the cycle this is dramatically higher than what we have seen in any previous cycle right? So yes we are selling a significantly higher rate of new technology in this part of the cycle versus previous.
And as I said earlier this is down to I think the fact that we have a very flush new technology portfolio and offering and I think we have been doing a better job in clearly demonstrating to our customers what these new technologies bring in terms of lower cost per barrel in terms of efficiency in terms of higher production.
And this is again why I think the uptake although it's slightly down from where it was in the second half of 2014 it is still holding up very very well.
Okay thanks.
And then kind of an unrelated follow-up here.
On the third quarter in particular clearly we are going to see continued declines in revenue internationally and probably some margin degradation.
In North America do you still expect to see a significant revenue degradation and marked degradation as well? Could you give us some clarity on kind of how we should think about 3Q and is 3Q the bottom? Okay well let's start up with the beginning.
So in terms of revenue we expect that the sequential drop is going to slow in Q3 and it could potentially represent bottom when it comes to revenue.
Now if you look at Q1 we saw a 19% sequential decline in Q2 we saw a 12% sequential decline in revenue.
So for the third quarter we expect something in the range of 5% 6% further decline in sequential revenue.
Okay.
Now if you look at the two main parts of the world in North America we do expect a slight increase on activity on land.
But again we see this being offset by weakening also offshore activity and further pricing pressure both on land and offshore and internationally no major change.
We think the overall weak activity is going to continue and also there's going to be sustained pricing pressure.
In addition we have the slowing down of activity for part of Q3 in the Middle East and also the maintenance fees in the North Sea.
Now if you look at this cycle so far we have proactively managed costs to protect margins.
And I think we demonstrated that we are pretty quick on our feet and we can manage this very very well.
At this stage our structure cost and our field capacity is really tailored to our Q2 activity level.
But for now we have decided to preserve our current structure for Q3 and this is in order to be ready for increased activity as we go forward.
So provided this is for a limited period of time we are prepared to live with the temporary margin impact that carrying these slightly elevated levels of resources is going to have.
It's not going to be a huge impact on margins but it's going to be a little bit more than what we could have managed if we were to cut even deeper.
So if you look at EPS it's going to come down in Q3 and I think the current consensus of $0.77 is a pretty realistic number.
Okay perfect.
Thanks Paal.
Our next question is from Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Going back to an earlier question but I wanted to be more specific with regard to discussing the attempt at improved alignment with customers.
Looking at three buckets if you could talk specifically about refracking in terms of uptake number of projects wins what have you engineering completions in the similar vein? And also on the deepwater front getting more aligned and paid on the AFE versus NPT? Okay so if we start off with the land part right? So on geoengineering completions in North America we have over the past quarter engaged and are in contract – either we have signed contracts or either in contract discussions with several customers – on doing consistently geoengineering completions for them.
And with refracturing we are already engaged with eight different customers in North America land on doing refracturing for them.
So both of these elements are picking up nicely.
As I said earlier some of the customers would like to go with traditional contracts where they just pay us a technology premium for what we bring and others are still considering whether to go into a performance-based setup.
And either way we are fine.
The main thing as I said we are looking to create technology differentiation.
And again this is going quite well.
If there is any resistance to your underwriting the cost of a refrac or an engineering completions what is it exactly? What would be the resistance on the part of a customer from actually allowing you to do that? Well I think the only resistance will be the fact that when they see that we are prepared to do it it must be a pretty good business proposition.
And I think when they look at this in more detail they'll figure out that there is no need for us to carry the cost because they happily will carry the cost because it's a good investment.
So I think that's really the main – so there is no resistance.
It's just a reflection of do they want to capture more of the value themselves or would they like to outsource all the risk and potentially much more of the upside to us? And at this juncture with regard to the uptake on the land front is it an even split between standard contracts and more of the underwritten contracts? I think at this stage I would say it is probably more so standard contracts with the pricing premium rather than having to underwrite it.
We offer underwriting to all of them but most of them actually do take more of a standard type of contract.
Okay.
And any comments on the deepwater front? Well in terms of changing the business model on deepwater and being I would say more compensated on performance rather than standard type of contracts it is not that much movement on that front.
We are discussing with some of our larger customers various types of framework.
We haven't concluded any of these yet but I would say there have been good kind of productive discussions.
It takes a bit more time.
These are larger projects.
It's a bit more complicated to do than kind of the single well things we can do on land.
But I would say we have good discussions and a good dialogue and I think there is openness from our customers to invite us to the table and basically have us participate more but nothing really material in terms of new contracts signed yet.
Okay.
And last one for me your final sort of comment or one of them with regard to your opening narrative was referencing your balance sheet strength and your free cash flow generation thus allowing you to take increased advantage of market opportunities.
Can you elaborate on that? I assume in part that means acquisitions? Simon you want to comment on our use of free cash flow? You know our priority to cash is still as we always declared.
We will fuel the growth of the business and you've seen a slowdown on the CapEx because of times.
But obviously we continue to invest in SPM and multiclient.
As far as acquisition we do small ones on regular basis and this is also funded through cash.
We don't borrow for that kind of acquisition but we will remain to be opportunistic on that front.
But as I said smaller acquisition that regular as far as to our use of cash.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
I guess good afternoon where you guys are.
Congratulations on a very well executed run Paal over the last 12 months.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
You indicated here that you're carrying a cost structure that is sized for kind of second quarter activity and willing to kind of deal with some near-term margin dynamics related with that cost structure if activity comes in a little bit more.
I don't want to be too presumptuous but then I would assume that you wouldn't want to sit for too much longer than one quarter with some sort of a margin drag.
So can we maybe infer from your comments you're expecting a increase in activity generally speaking in the fourth quarter that would be for North America and then maybe international as soon as the first quarter of next year? Yeah I think you can read into this that – firstly I think we are pleased with how we've handled the downturn so far.
We decided to be rather decisive in rightsizing the workforce for the downturn we are facing and that includes both rightsizing and streamlining the support structure as well as the field capacity.
So I think what you can read into the comments on the fact that we are prepared to carry slightly more costs into Q3 and this is not a significant part it's slightly more that is that we are indeed looking to be ready for growth in activity.
Now I can't say 100% certain that it's going to come in Q4 or Q1 but what we're saying is that we believe we are getting close to bottom.
We believe that we have demonstrated very clearly our ability to manage cost and resources and in the event the upturn is a couple of quarters away we are prepared to carry the cost and I think that would be a much better management of our resources to enable us to be well prepared and positioned for the growth and in the event it's pushed out a bit more we can also do further adjustments that's relatively easy.
We have shown that we can do it.
So yes you can infer that we are looking and searching for the uptick and that we think that we are pretty close to bottom.
Okay.
That's great color.
I appreciate that.
Now in the context of the margin performance in the international markets for the second quarter and we roll through into the third quarter how can – like if I look from the outside in I would have to say to myself if you did so well in the second quarter I assume you can do probably equally as well in the third quarter right because you're sized for it you've been positioned for it.
So why would margins come down internationally in the third quarter versus the second quarter? Well I can't say that they would or they wouldn't.
I mean obviously we would still like to maintain them where they are.
We will internationally as well carry I would say slightly more resources than what is necessary for the third quarter.
We see revenue coming down still a little bit from the second quarter level and we could have shed some more resources to be prepared for that.
I think the only reason why the margins would come down I would say in general would be that we are carrying slightly more resources.
There is also a further pricing effect that comes into it.
But obviously offsetting this is is the continued impact from transformation right? So I would say if we decided to go forward and completely align resources to activity we should be able to absorb a large part of the pricing.
I think the way we are going now you could potentially see a little bit of margin drop in Q3 but that will be more by design.
The fact that we are willing to carry a bit more resources rather than not being able to effectively maintain it.
All right that's great.
And if I just – just on the pricing front on the international dynamics what area are you seeing the most pricing in terms of geographic and what product lines are coming under the most pressure right now? In the international market? Yes.
Well obviously the product line that has been the most effective so far is WesternGeco on the seismic side which has been now going on for a good about six-odd quarters right? So I think our team in WesternGeco has done a tremendous job in streamlining the cost structure improving how we operate our fleets.
So we are very well positioned to kind of maximize our performance on the marine seismic business the way it is today.
But that's probably where we have seen the most.
In terms of geography you see it more or less everywhere both on land and offshore actually.
But we've seen it in some of the large markets in Latin America Sub-Saharan Africa the North Sea even on land in the Middle East we have a significant pricing pressures so we are navigating the landscape and we are – we have to give concessions but we try to trade the concessions for something in return either better terms and conditions more integration opportunities higher market share.
And whatever is left to be offset we are trying to offset with the leverage we are creating from the transformation.
Hey that's great Paal.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we'll go to Jim Crandell with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Paal.
What impact is the pending merger of Halliburton and Baker Hughes having on the awarding of business outside of North America? It's a bit difficult for me to say what the impact is.
I mean that's more of a customer question right? I think it obviously creates a bit of uncertainty from our customers.
Firstly is the transaction going to go through? If it goes through then it's from three to two players.
If it doesn't go through then obviously that warrants a different approach to how they potentially would like to award.
So I think it creates uncertainty from the customer side as to how they go about awarding in tender situation and it has probably also led to potentially slightly lower rate of tendering in this part of the cycle.
This is the ideal time for most of our customers to tender given the fact that they know activity is down.
So I think it's – that is probably one impact that it has.
If you look at our performance I'm actually very pleased with our tender win rate in the first half of the year.
I think we have done very well.
I'm pleased with some of the key wins that we have taken on and for me that should bode well I think for market share evolution in the second half of this year and into 2016.
And do you think you've won market share year-to-date internationally in the areas that you compete with Halliburton and Baker? Yeah there is nothing in our revenue numbers in H1 as of yet but if you look at the amount of contract volume we have won I believe we have won a higher share of the contracts out for bid than what our current market share is which means that over time we should gain share.
Okay good.
As these contracts are implemented yeah.
Okay good.
And as a follow-up question I have on the U.S.
pressure pumping business in this kind of environment that we're in today are there many instances where customers are willing to differentiate and pay for technology? Well if you look at the total business volume in North America land it is not a high percentage yet.
But I would say it's a growing number of customers that are willing to have a much more open technology discussion with us.
And they see the importance I think of moving away focus entirely from driving down the well costs to driving down the cost per barrel for the production that they have.
And the only way to do that now going forward as we are nearing the assumed total of how cheaply you can drill and complete these wells you're going to have to get more production out of them.
And I think it's very evident that the only way to get that done is through new technology and new workload.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Doug Becker with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch</span></strong> Thanks.
Paal maybe sticking with the pressure pumping topic.
You highlighted unsustainability of where that business stands right now.
How do you expect this to play out? Does the capacity simply shift to stronger hands or do you see some meaningful capacity reductions? No I think what you find in any of these commoditized markets if companies go under there might be a temporary impact on capacity as the capacity shifts hands.
But most likely whatever capacity is in the market today will likely resurface with some other ownership once those type of transactions are sorted out right? So I don't think it's going to be a permanent capacity reduction from companies potentially going under.
I think these assets will shift hands and resurface with different ownership.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch</span></strong> That makes sense.
Then maybe a quick one for Simon.
In the past you've mentioned getting payback on severance costs within a year.
Is that on track and does this simplistically mean cost savings of something around $750 million in 2015? And I'm just arriving at that number by summing up the severance costs from fourth quarter to second quarter.
So it is on track.
It is as we confirm within one year.
I'm not too sure about your number but your logic is correct.
If you take what we have declared as far as the payments are concerned this will be recovered less than a year.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch</span></strong> Okay.
And are the remaining head count reductions more concentrated in North America or internationally? We are almost completed with what we have done.
There is no more reduction.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch</span></strong> Got it.
Has that skewed more North America or internationally? Well North America was a – percentage-wise was higher but it was global yes.
Global.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints that will be our last question.
I'll turn it back to the presenters for any closing remarks.
All right thank you.
So before we close I would like to summarize the three most important points that we have discussed this morning.
First the market evolution in the second quarter was the continuation of what we saw in the first quarter with North America land rig count falling further and with pricing pressure increasing in both North America and international markets.
In response to this we have proactively managed what remains under our control and subsequently delivered our best cost and cash performance so far in any downturn.
Second our strong performance has been amplified by the acceleration of our transformation program which is being actively implemented throughout our global organization and which has enabled us to increase pre-tax operating margins in the international areas and maintain double-digit margins in North America.
Third we believe that we now have seen the bottom of the rig count decline in North America and that North America land activity will see a slow increase in the second half of this year while service pricing is expected to decline further in the third quarter as the fight for market share continues to play out.
In the international markets we expect no upward revision to E&amp;P CapEx spend for remainder of 2015 as the trend of low exploration activity tight management of development spend and sustained pricing pressure is likely set to continue.
Based on this the third quarter could potentially represent the bottom of the cycle in terms of earnings per share as the pace of the revenue drop is set to slow and as we continue our steadfast efforts to maximize operating margins in both North America and international markets.
And with the streamlining of our cost and resource base undertaken in the past nine months together with the acceleration of our transformation program we remain very optimistic about our ability to deliver unmatched incremental margins as soon as E&amp;P investments start to show any signs of growth.
That concludes today's call.
Thank you very much for attending.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference is available for replay.
It starts today at 11:00 AM Eastern Daylight Time.
It will last until August 17 at midnight.
You may access the replay at any time by dialing 800-475-6701.
International parties please dial 320-365-3844.
The access code is 358215.
Those numbers again 800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844.
The access code 358215.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Schlumberger Q3 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited third quarter 2015 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from New York following the Schlumberger Limited Board meeting yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I would like to remind the participants that some of the statement we will be making today are forward-looking.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our results to differ materially from those in the projected statements.
I therefore refer you to our latest 10-K filing and other SEC filings.
Our comments today may also include non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our third quarter press release which is on our website.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Third quarter earnings per share were $0.78.
This represent decreases of $0.10 sequentially and $0.71 when compared to the same quarter last year.
Our third quarter revenue of $8.5 billion decreased 6% sequentially.
Almost 40% of the revenue decline was attributable to pricing.
Despite the very challenging environment both in terms of pricing and activity pre-tax operating margins only declined by 101 basis points sequentially.
This was due to the continued strong and proactive cost management across the entire organization.
Sequential highlights by product group whereas follows.
Third quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.3 billion decreased 5% sequentially as decreases in exploration spending impacted both wireline and testing services internationally.
Despite the revenue decline pre-tax margin -- operating margins remained essentially flat at 26.3%.
Drilling Group revenue of $3.3 billion decreased 7% primarily due to pricing pressures and activity declines internationally that have mostly affected drilling and measurements and M-I SWACO.
As a result of strong cost management Drilling Group margins only declined 94 basis points to 18.6%.
Production Group revenue of $3 billion decreased 5% sequentially while margins declined 173 basis points.
These decreases were primarily driven by pricing and activity declines in Well Services.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate was 20% in the third quarter.
This was lower than the previous quarter by about 1 percentage point due to the geographic mix of earnings between North America and the Rest of the World as well as the mix of earnings amongst the international geo markets.
Our cash flow generation continues to be very strong.
During the third quarter we generated $2.5 billion of cash flow from operations.
During the first three quarters of 2015 we have generated $6.6 billion of cash flow from operations.
This is all despite making severance payments of approximately $150 million during the third quarter and $600 million during the first nine month of the year.
Net debt improved $400 million during the quarter to $5.2 billion.
During the quarter we spend $545 million to repurchase 6.9 million shares at an average price of $78.76.
Subsequent to the announcement of our transaction with Cameron in August we have been repurchasing the maximum number of shares allowable under the SEC’s regulations.
We filed our S4 registration statement relating to the acquisition two weeks ago today.
It’s worth highlighting that once the SEC declares our registration statement effective and the proxy statement is mailed.
We will be prohibited under the securities laws from repurchasing our stock until the Cameron shareholder vote.
We spent $590 million on Capex during the third quarter.
Full-year 2015 Capex excluding multi-client and SPM investments is still expected to be approximately $2.5 billion.
And now I will turn the conference call over to Paal.
Thank you Simon and good morning everyone.
Schlumberger third quarter revenues fell 6% sequentially driven by continuing decline in rig activity and persistent pricing pressure throughout our global operations.
North America revenues fell 4% sequentially as we maintain focus on balancing margins and market share while international revenue was 7% lower as customer budget cuts and service pricing erosion impacted results.
Still in the midst of what may well turn out to be the most severe downturn in several decades our operating margins were maintained at levels much higher than in previous downturns.
In North America pre-tax operating margins were held at 8.9% in spite of an additional drop in activity and pricing both offshore and on land.
While international margins dropped to 23.7% as customer budget cuts activity cancellations and lower service pricing took further effect.
In the first nine months of 2015 year-over-year revenue has dropped 34% in North America and 18% internationally yet we have delivered nine month decremental operating margins of 34% in North America and 23% internationally which represents a strong performance improvement over the 2009 downturn.
We have delivered these results by proactively and decisively managing our cost and resource base carefully navigating the commercial landscape with the aim of balancing margins and market share and at the same time accelerating our internal transformation program.
We also generated more than $1.7 billion in free cash flow in the third quarter which represents a conversion rate of 170% of the quarter’s earnings.
Our ability to generate significant free cash flow even in this part of the cycle is a major competitive edge which we actively use to pursue new business opportunities as well as targeted M&amp;A activity.
In terms of M&amp;A our main focus in recent months has been the proposed acquisition of Cameron announced on August 26 which will open up a significant growth opportunity for us as we look to establish the industry’s first complete drilling and production systems spanning both the surface and the subsurface.
In addition we also completed the acquisition of Houston-based T&amp;T Engineering which specializes in design of land rig systems as well as Utah-based Novatek which is a leader in the field of synthetic diamond innovation.
We also signed a letter of intent for a joint venture with a part of the Bauer Group from Germany in further revolution of our land-rig-of-the-future strategy.
And finally we entered into an agreement with IBM to jointly provide integrated production optimization services combining our production software platform with IBM’s enterprise asset management services in an end-to-end offering.
Looking at our results on a geographical basis North American revenue decreased 4% sequentially a figure considerably less than the 27% sequential decrease seen in the second quarter and better than the 7% drop in the average horizontal rig count.
On land the revenue growth was driven by lower hydraulic fracturing activity and additional pricing pressure for both products and services.
In the Gulf of Mexico revenue declined on lower multiclient seismic sales exploration rigs transferring to drilling and completion activities as well as pricing concessions which were partially offset by higher new technology sales.
In Western Canada rig count almost doubled sequentially following the early spring break up but was still down by roughly 52% year-over-year.
In spite of these headwinds operating margins in North America decreased by only 136 basis points sequentially to 8.9% and this strong performance is the direct results of our proactive approach to cost and resource management the growing effects of our transformation program strong new technology sales and efficient supply chain management.
As service pricing in US land fell further in the third quarter we continued our approach of concentrating activity in core areas and for key customers while proceeding to start equipment rather than operating at a loss.
In the rare event we select to pursue work at what we consider non-commercial prices.
We view this as an investment decision and apply the same justification and approval process used for any other reinvestment we do in our business.
This has let us to move equipment and crews between basins as we look to balance market share with margins and as we pursue new technology opportunities.
We believe that this approach has enabled us to protect our profitability in North America land and has also helped us maintain our overall infrastructure and long-term ability to service our customers in this market.
In the international markets revenue declined 7% sequentially due to further customer budget cuts rapidly changing activity driven by the disruptions delays and cancellations as well as by further pricing concessions.
Third quarter international operating margins of 23.7% was down 72 basis points sequentially and 83% basis points year-over-year.
Our nine month decremental margins were still held to 23% which represents a marked improvement over the 61% from the corresponding period in the 2009 downturn which is a testament to both the strength of our international business and how well our organization is executing.
Within the international areas Middle East and Asia revenues declined by 8% sequentially while pretax operating margins decreased 171 basis points to 27%.
Activity in the Middle East remained robust during the quarter particularly in Saudi Arabia the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait but pricing concessions changes to the activity mix as well as project delays had a negative impact on revenue and profitability.
Year-over-year area revenue decreased 20% while margins dropped by 61 basis points.
Our lump sum turnkey project in Saudi Arabia continued to progress well and with steady improvements in drilling efficiency well deliveries are now ahead of planned levels.
In the United Arab Emirates robust drilling production and seismic activity was boosted by further rig additions and we also recorded strong sales of Petrel and ECLIPSE software.
Drilling activity was also stronger in Kuwait as rig count increased however this was partly offset by operational delays and an activity shutdown in the neutral zone.
In Iraq we mobilized two rigs for the Zubair lump sum turnkey project with the first well already completed while revenue from the other operations in the country remained flat with the second quarter.
In Southeast Asia activity was lower throughout the region driven by a further drop in Offshore Australia as project ended lower rig count in Malaysia reduced deep-water exploration and development work in the South China Sea and continuing NOC budget cuts on land in China.
In Latin America revenue declined 7% sequentially while pretax operating margins fell 159 basis points to 20.7%.
In Mexico Argentina and Brazil activity was further hit by a combination of delays and budget reductions while Colombia was weaker due to increased pricing pressure.
These effects were however partially offset by steady activity in Venezuela and Ecuador.
Year-over-year area revenue decreased 30% and operating margins decreased by 120 basis points.
In Mexico revenue dropped again in the third quarter and now stands at an eight-year low as the significant budget cuts further impacted activity and profitability.
At the same time we began multiclient seismic operations in the Gulf of Campeche and awards for the second and third license rounds of the Energy Reform Act remain on schedule.
Offshore activity continued to decline in Brazil as budget reductions impacted both equipment rentals and field operations.
And in addition to this revenue was also hit by the weakening of the reais.
In Venezuela activity was steady for both the PDVSA and for the heavy-oil joint ventures in the Faja while in Ecuador SPM activity was flat as the Shushufindi project continued to perform in line with expectations.
In Europe/CIS/Africa revenue fell 6% sequentially while pre-tax operating margins increased 92 basis points to 22.2%.
Year-over-year revenue decreased 31% and margins dropped by 125 basis points.
Within the area the bright spot in the third quarter was Russia and Central Asia where revenue continued to increase with peak summer drilling activity in Russia Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
This increase was however partially offset by a weaker ruble.
In the North Sea increased drilling in the UK sector was insufficient to counter lower activity in the remote areas and was further offset by reduced activity in Norway from project delays and cancellations as well as currency weakness.
In Sub-Saharan Africa activity increased in Gabon in the third quarter but was considerably lower in the rest of the region as operations were halted in Chad.
Exploration work dropped to a new low in Angola and also projects were cancelled in Nigeria.
In Algeria and Tunisia activity was also down in the third quarter while in Libya our operations continues to be limited to one offshore rig.
Turning next to the overall market outlook we see two clear trend emerging.
First as we enter the last quarter of the year the global oil market is still weighed down by fears of reduced growth in China and the timing and magnitude of additional Iranian exports.
However the fundamental balance of supply and demand continues to tighten driven by both solid global GDP growth and by weakening supply as dramatic cuts in E&amp;P investments start to take full effect.
We expect this trend to continue and as the oil markets further recognizes the magnitude of the industry’s annual production replacement challenge this will gradually translate into improvements in oil prices going forward.
Second in spite of the expected improvements in oil prices the market outlook for oilfield services looks challenging for the coming quarters as we expect additional reductions in activity and further pressure on service pricing.
This is driven by the financial pressure on many of our customers where a year of very low oil prices is now exhausting available cash flow and corresponding capital spending and also leading them to take a very conservative view on 2016 E&amp;P budgets.
In addition to this the winter season will have the normal negative impact on activity which in the fourth quarter is unlikely to be offset by the usual year-end sales of software products and multi-client licenses.
Based on this industry outlook we expect E&amp;P investments to fall for a second successive year in 2016 which is the first time since the 1986 downturn when the spare capacity cushion was more than 10 million barrels per day.
In spite of the need for the industry to increase investment levels to mitigate the pending impact on global supply we instead see an increasing likelihood of a timing gap between the expected improvement in oil prices and the subsequent increase in E&amp;P investments and oilfield services activity.
This timing gap or increased response time is a direct consequence of the dramatic cost in E&amp;P investments which have clearly damaged the oil industry’s financial strength and investment appetite as well as the operating capacity and capability.
So while our macro view has not changed in terms of a tightening supply and demand balance and an expected improvement in oil prices we have to factor in that the likely recovery in our activity levels now seems to be a 2017 event.
We communicated in our previous earnings call that we were prepared to live with our existing cost base going forward provided we were close to the bottom of the market and that the activity recovery was only a couple of quarters out.
As a result we carried our cost base forward into Q3 which had some negative impact on our operating margins and we did not report any exceptional restructuring charges in the quarter.
The likely timing gap between the oil price recovery and the subsequent increase in oilfield services activity in combination with a more conservative spending outlook from our customers is causing us to now take further action.
We have therefore decided to proceed with a further round of capacity and overhead reductions which will result in a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter.
This charge will cover severance cost for additional headcount reductions reflecting both our updated activity outlook for 2016 and a further streamlining of our support structure.
In addition and as part of our internal transformation program we are now ready to initiate a significant restructuring of our global manufacturing and distribution network which will also result in a charge in the fourth quarter.
We will seize opportunities to streamline our engineering manufacturing and sustaining infrastructure by consolidating sites into clusters both in central locations and in the field while at the same time further modernize our processes by introducing state of the art manufacturing automation in line with the best companies in other high tech industries.
These changes to our manufacturing and distribution network are closely coordinated with the integrated plans for Cameron which are already well advanced and which will be quickly implemented once the transaction has closed.
So far in this downturn we have proactively and decisively managed our cost and resource base carefully navigated the commercial landscape with the aim of balancing margins and market share at the same time as we have actively accelerated our internal transformation program.
With the above actions we are continuing this prudent approach with the aim of protecting and extending our solid financial performance into 2016 which is shaping up to be another challenging year for the oilfield services industry.
We further believe that our ability to respond to higher E&amp;P investments and oilfield activity in 2017 will be improved by protecting our financial strength in 2016 rather than carrying at accepted costs and inefficiencies as we await the recovery of the oilfield services market.
Overall we remain very confident in our ability to weather this downturn much better than our surroundings and through our global reach the strength of our technology offering and our transformation program we are creating a significant financial leverage that will enable us to increase market share deliver superior earnings and margins and continue to generate unmatched levels of free cash flow.
Thank you very much.
We will now open up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Ole Slorer at Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you very much.
And Paal I wonder whether we could start with the macro and maybe before that Simon congrats with another great set of free cash flow numbers.
Thanks Ole.
But let us start with the macro for now.
Where do you think that the weakening supply has played our differently or similarly to what you would have thought 3 6 or 12 months ago in light of recent CapEx cuts? I think it’s playing out more or less as we have expected globally.
I think what you see in OPEC there is really no change to overall production capacity.
There is a continuous shift from spare capacity into marketed supply.
In North America the production is coming down more or less as expected as well and internationally we are starting to see signs of a weakening supply as well.
I think in all these three main sources of supply while production is starting to come down I think there are also significant efforts to maximize production within each of these basis while in some cases taking more short-term actions to maximize production which might actually have a negative on long-term recovery.
I think there is only a limited period that this can be done and while the various players exhaust these type of opportunities if investments aren’t increased I think you will see a further acceleration of the drop in production.
And the timing of that acceleration do you have a view on that? No it’s still a bit difficult to say but I think there are clear signs now in all – at least in North America and non-NAM and OPEC that production is weakening and we expect that to continue and potentially accelerate in the event the investments aren’t increasing.
Okay thanks for that.
Just sort of based on what you highlight here with respect to CapEx trends in respect of oil prices just having a shot at your fourth quarter and first quarter next year with a 10% EPS reduction into the fourth quarter and then another 5% into the first quarter would that be a reasonable trajectory? Well let me say this.
Q4 looks challenging and visibility had actually dropped in the past month or two now.
So formal [ph] activity is down but in Q4 we will see the start of the wind to slow down in the northern hemisphere.
We also see further budget cuts in several of the key offshore markets such as Sub-Sahara Africa Brazil and the Far East.
We also expect rig activity in North America land to be down in Q4 due to the financial stress on many of our customers there and we expect very limited yearend sales of product software and multiclient.
So EPS will drop but due to the lack of the visibility we have now Ole I am not really ready to commit to a number but I will also say that Q1 in spite of Q4 not having the seasonal uptick in yearend sales we also see Q1 being below Q4.
Okay that makes sense.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Ole.
Thank you.
We will go next to the line of James West with Evercore ISI.
Hey good morning Paal.
Good morning.
Paal so we’ve now pushed out the recovery to ’17 but I wonder if you could elaborate a little bit more on how you see ‘16 playing out.
Clearly you just mentioned 1Q is going to be below 4Q does that mark the bottom in earnings and we are kind of going sideways from those next year or is there a potential for a second half modest upturn? Well we hope that Q1 will represent the bottom and there would be a gradually but slow recovery during the year or even sideways.
I think it is still too early to say James.
I think we have even for Q4 now there is significant uncertainties in several of the markets on what’s going to happen.
Beyond that we clearly see Q1 being below Q4 but visibility Q1 is still very low.
So I would hope that what you kind of depict will be the case but I think it’s too early to say.
But I would say also that there is a limit to how long these reductions in investment and activity can continue.
And I think as the oil price now likely will start to move upwards hopefully investments will turnaround but anything meaningful will be late ‘16 and into 117 as we see it as per today.
Okay got it.
And then Paal you specifically called out M&amp;A in the press release last night and you had a number of smaller deals in addition to Cameron this quarter or last quarter excuse me.
Are you preparing the market for something additional of size or is this just highlighting the fact that you guys are generating tons of cash you got a huge flexibility? Yeah it’s still out there we’re not preparing the market for anything other than refocus significantly our entire organization on generating free cash.
Margins are a key ingredients to generate cash.
So both of those are key focus areas for us in terms of protecting and extending our strong financial performance.
And obviously in this type of market companies that can generate significant free cash has a broad range of opportunities and I think we’ve shown so far in the downturn that we will be opportunistic.
What opportunities are there and which one we will convert we will revert back to you when we have converted them.
But as of now we will continue to be opportunistic but there is no preparation or any methods beyond that.
Okay got it.
Thanks Paal.
We’ll go next to the line of Angie Sedita with UBS.
And again impressive free cash flow and decrementals there versus the peer group.
So Paal in your prepared remarks you talked a little bit about the outlook for 2016 as far as E&amp;P spending and I know it’s obviously early to have much granularity.
So where we have less visibility is internationally and maybe you can just give us some color there on what you’re hearing with your conversations with your customers around the world as far as the spending outlook for 2016 both land and offshore? Yeah we don’t have a lot of granularity Angie; it’s still just kind of broad-based statements.
Most of our customers haven’t completed or just barely started our budgeting process for 2016.
But the general feedback is very consistent.
And that is they expect the vast of them that spend will be lower.
So I can’t give you granularity of geography or land and offshore.
I would say though that the part of that rule that is still very very resilient is obviously the GCC countries in the Middle East.
So I’m not expecting anything significant there in terms of lower investments.
But broad-based pretty much everywhere else.
There are significant challenges and we expect 2016 budgets to be below 2015.
Okay okay that’s helpful.
And if you -- you think about the U.S.
and obviously it’s a smaller market for you.
But as you think about the U.S.
and you’ve said on a number of occasions that the pricing is unsustainably low.
And as we all know that many of these smaller companies are free cash flow negative.
I mean how do you think this plays out in 2016 going into 2017 could even a modest increase in activity in oil prices led to even modest improvements in pricing or how do you think this plays out any thoughts? Yeah.
I’m not very optimistic on any turnaround in service and product pricing for oilfield services in North America land.
I think yes many of the small companies or most of the small companies are free cash flow negative.
They are under significant financial stress and maybe some of them will go bankrupt in the coming quarters or in the coming year.
But there is still massive overcapacity and even these small companies that go bankrupt will likely be picked up other investors and their assets will be returned back into the market.
So I think the overcapacity is going to be with industry for quite a considerable amount of time.
So I don’t expect any real improvement in service and product pricing in the coming year in North America land.
All right great.
Thanks I’ll turn it over.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to the line of Bill Herbert with Simmons &amp; Company.
Wondering if we can talk about a little bit about the flexibility of the U.S.
upstream value chain here as we’re getting deeper into this downturn.
And I mean the supposition has been and perhaps continues to be the -- once the recovery narrative is embraced by the industry that the industry can respond quickly and assertively to an increase in spending and activity.
Do we still think that’s the case given the duress of the industry and the fact that many are not only cutting into fat and muscle but now bone.
So I think the industry is -- so I think the market is probably overestimating how quickly the industry can respond whether it’s in North America or internationally.
I think the fact that now four quarters into very low oil prices the financial strength of many of our customers has significantly weakened and their appetite to invest is also a bit down.
Any I think – any improvement in oil prices I think will be to initially – is going to go towards the strength in the balance sheet and then the oil companies will likely assess how sustainable are these increases in oil prices before they start investing.
So there is a delay I believe between an improvement in oil prices and the decision to increase budgets.
And there is going to be a further delay between increasing budgets and realizing that into higher oil field activity.
And then there is going to be a delay in between higher oil activity and higher production.
So I think there – the market is underestimating how long this period is going to take and just the fact that the industry is again looking to reduce investments when we have this significant pending supply impact coming.
This shows that I think we are – we even have increasing chance of a potential spike in oil prices if investments aren’t increased in time.
Okay.
And then secondly so given the duress that you’re processing here for the next several quarters notwithstanding the fact your decrementals in Q3 were still very laudable they trended higher.
And I’m just curious as to whether we see accelerating decrementals over the next quarters or do they stabilize or what’s your view with regards to the roadmap on that front? Well in terms of our decrementals we are working flat out to continue to manage them at our own levels that you’ve seen so far this year.
So we are not giving up on that we have continuous efforts both in reducing cost and capacity as well as creating more leverage to offset pricing from our transformation.
So we are going to continue to work very hard at delivering continuously very strong decrementals.
We see that that’s very important to sort of maintain our financial strength and also to help us generate the strong free cash flow that you’ve seen so far this year.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to the line of Jim Crandell at Cowen.
Good morning.
Paal the – based on maybe a more limited sample size we seem to see a number of companies quarrelling for 20% to 30% reductions in their CapEx for 2016.
Is that a range that you think is reasonable at this point? I think full year 2016 – for full year 2016 that sounds like a high number.
At this stage I don’t think it’s going to be as much as that no.
And based on your conversations with the – with managements of some of the NOCs would you think that the NOCs in Latin America West Africa and Asia would be still one of the weakest points in the market.
I noticed that Angola is cutting spending by 50% next year and do you think that’s going to be indicative of some of the NOCs in those regions? Well that number again I think is high but I think the fact that this customer group has cut significantly this year and would likely go down potentially further next year I think is a reasonable assumption.
But again my commentary on 2016 is based on very high level discussions and I don’t have details of what budgets and what numbers are going to be.
Other than that it seems to be consensus that overall spend will be down.
I think your 20% to 30% is very high.
It’s likely to be less than that but still I expect it to be down.
And how would you – in a declining market how do you think that that affects the market share of integrated services for Schlumberger? I don’t think it has a direct impact on anything in terms of up or down.
There continues to be a broad range of integration type of opportunities.
We are pursuing order but it is all the way from bundle services from a few of our product lines all the way up to full turnkey lump sum contracts as well as SPM opportunities.
So nothing dramatic in terms of shift of integration opportunities.
It continues to be a key part of what they offer and there is a generally growing appetite from all customer groups to engage in those type of contracts.
Good.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to the line of Bill Sanchez at Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning Paal.
Good morning.
Paal I want to try to understand a bit more from you the magnitude of the pricing declines internationally that you’re seeing and what the duration from here is going to be and I guess specifically kind of where are we now or where are you I should say in working through all of your contract renegotiations with your customers? I can’t give you a number Bill on this other than I think it’s clear that the pricing impact internationally all the way it is significant to our operations it is still significantly lower than what we’ve seen in North America and North America land.
I would say that round one of the pricing discussion is complete.
There might be more coming in the coming quarters and I think as long as oil prices are down and the outlook is still relatively somber then there is a constant pressure on pricing internationally as well as in North America land.
So we continue to work through that.
We bid competitively on the tenders that are out there customers that are looking to renegotiate we engage in those discussions and obviously we’re trying to minimize and protect how we -- what we concede in these type of discussions but that’s a call we make in this situation around what market share we are looking at what kind of terms and conditions we can get so some of the things and how we look at the overall business that we run.
This is a normal part of business.
When there is overcapacity there is pressure on pricing and that’s part of what we do for a living to manage that.
Do past renegotiations that you’ve for the like of kind of settled with your customers do those get reopened here as we go into 2016 or these are just incremental discussions that you’re still having on contracts that really haven’t been negotiated at this point or renegotiated at this point? Well I think it’s a mix of all of it that I think you see it in North America land and you see at international.
Overcapacity there is a continuous pricing discussion until we hit the bottom of the market and then it stabilizes and then we look upwards from there.
So there is a mix of renegotiations of contracts already discussed and some of them which have not been changed already.
So there is a combination of all of that.
Okay.
Simon a follow-up for you or a question for you can you give us an idea of when the share repurchase blackout period will begin for you? Okay.
So as I mentioned in my remarks once we supplied the S4 and it is accepted there will be a blackout period.
I am expecting it to be about four to five weeks and could start maybe early November.
Okay.
And I guess we would expect repurchases to take place up until that point? Yeah.
Now I like to take this opportunity just to remind you that first we are issuing a large number of shares and the number of shares that will be issued it’s going to take place by our US based subsidiary.
You’re going to see a large movement in the capital structure of Schlumberger between our US subsidiary and the parent company.
In other words the US subsidiary will be the one acquiring Cameron and as a result it’s going to acquire the shares from the parent company.
So you’re going to see eventually when we close the transaction of Cameron a large swing in the capital structure between the US based subsidiary our parent company because of the structure of the acquisition and this would require the US subsidiary as I said to acquire shares from the parent company.
So there will be a large movement of cash from the US based subsidiary into the parent company.
But when times will come we’ll explain it to you in more details and how it’s going to work out.
<br>Great.
I appreciate the time.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to the line of David Anderson of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Paul I was hoping you could expand a bit more on what you see on the exploration front.
In the commentary you noted Gulf of Mexico continue to transition.
Now West Africa is starting to roll those exploration programs.
And what’s the mindset of your customers at this point of where that fits in the portfolio you talked about -- the first and foremost about the balance sheet is obviously about dividend but is it just about getting development costs down first and this exploration is kind of pushed out well how does that kind of fit in terms of your vision for the next couple of years? Yeah.
I think what you’re saying is correct.
The focus on driving cost down is on development and exploration is basically eliminated.
That’s how I think many customers look at it.
There are significant cuts in exploration activity and they continue both for seismic and for drilling.
The Q3 exploration rig count was down about 25% year-over-year and the seismic spend was also down in excess of 30% and that’s following a pretty low year in 2014 as well.
So it is very challenging for exploration activity for us but again the impact of this is still fully absorbed in our results which are still reasonably good.
So yes in summary our customers are more or less cutting completely exploration and focusing a lot more in driving further cost out of the development.
And on that side on the development as you integrate OneSubsea into Schlumberger this will be a pretty big opportunity to pull on the rest of Schlumberger to help bring down development cost.
If I think about you leaning on your reservoir expertise and well design capabilities how receptive have customers been so far to Schlumberger taking a greater role in that offshore development.
It would seem to be as a pretty big mindset change for your customers.
I mean is that happening? Do you feel confident of that? Do you think projects can actually move ahead in ’16 because of that or is that a little too optimistic in terms of the timing? It might be slightly optimistic on the timing but I think – so first of all many of the things that you mention in terms of bringing together these capabilities of Schlumberger and OneSubsea is already happening but obviously we can accelerate and have an even further impact on this as we close the transaction and take full management of OneSubsea but I am very pleased with the progress that OneSubsea has made and the close working relationship we’ve had OneSubsea from the Schlumberger side.
But I think over time and maybe not already in 2016 there is significant cost reduction potential in the – for the deepwater I think both when it comes to the well cost as well as for the overall infrastructure.
I think we can simplify we can standardize we can engineer costs out of the system and what that will allow if you can for instance reduce the well cost by say 30% you can potentially drill four wells for the price of three which again will help you increase production and recovery from the deepwater fields which obviously will help lower cost of barrel and then improve the economics.
So I think we are in very very early innings in terms of driving down costs for deepwater both production and then the drilling part of it.
And I think what we are doing now with the Cameron acquisition is going to address both those dimensions.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
We will go next to the line of Scott Gruber at Citi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Turning back to international decrementals you guys continue to post very impressive figures during this down cycle but at what rate of upstream spending decline abroad with this 25% 30% decrementals be at risk of rising? I know there is not a lot of clarity on exactly how spending will turn out next year but spending is down 15% would you start to become concerned or would it take a steeper drop to really threaten those decrementals? You are talking about 2016 spending.
Correct.
Well we have delivered I think very strong financial performance in the international market now for a number of years.
In 2014 we generated 69% incrementals on quite limited revenue growth and so far 23% decrementals on 18% drop in revenue this year.
So our performance so far this year is not a fluke we have been very good at managing our international business.
So I am expecting that even with still further headwinds in terms of top line in 2016 we should be able to continue to hold the decrementals at a very respectable level whether they are going to be at 23% or slightly higher it will be difficult to say.
But in terms of offsetting activity reductions through cost cutting I think we have proven that we can do that.
And beyond that it is how much leverage we can generate from the transformation to offset pricing.
So both of those are – we are very active on trying to delivery both of those type of results.
And we are going to go very hard at it for 2016 to continue to delivery strong decrementals internationally.
Got it.
And then you already touched on the need for customers to repair their balance sheets which will likely contribute to the delay in activity recovery.
Is there also an oil price threshold that you have in mind that need to be achieved before your customers start to increase CapEx? I mean do we need to see $65 Brent or $70 Brent.
At what level do you think customers are comfortable expanding their budgets even if there is some delay? I don’t have a specific oil price number in mind.
I think it’s going to be much more functional how sustainable our customers see the increases in oil prices to be.
I think it’s more about having a stable basis for increasing investments before they go ahead and do it right.
I still that they are -- that there is going to be conservatism based on the very tough four quarters that the industry has gone through at this stage.
And that’s why again we are basically saying that there is going to be a lag between higher oil prices and investments and even a tag between our investments and realizable oil selectivity.
Anything further Mr.
Gruber? Well nope that’s it got it.
Thanks.
We’ll go next to the line of Michael LaMotte with Guggenheim.
If I could follow-up just on transformation quickly and ask you to expand upon two areas in particular.
First you’re comments on the reorganization of the manufacturing operations and how long that is expected to take and if you could quantify the gross margin benefit perhaps of that effort.
And then secondly in the press release this is the first time we’ve seen the references to the multiskilling.
So if you could give us an update in terms of where we are in the progress of that effort as well? Yeah.
On the transformation around the global manufacturing and distribution the charge we’re taking is for consolidating facilities moving much more towards campuses and clusters and also the introduction of some new automation manufacturing type of technology.
Similarly we’re also looking to consolidate how we do global distribution going more from a global and local set up to a much more regional setup in terms of how we manage that.
So the process of getting it done we are -- we have already embarked on.
And there are some charges associated with it that we will take in the fourth quarter and we will continue implementing that program in 2016 and 2017.
So I’m not going to be able to give you a specific impact on margins and what this is going to generate for us although that we’re -- we are very excited about doing this.
It’s going to modernize a core part of the company and its going to make us even more competitive in the international market.
Now in terms of multiskilling this is part of how we’re continuing to drive people productivity.
There is many other aspects of what we do there we have remote operations as another key part of this as well where we can centralize much more of our expertise and have them oversee more jobs centrally rather than being at the well side as well.
So all of these elements are key part of the transformation program and we are still not at the halfway point of rolling this out globally and for it to have the full impact on our operations on our results.
So there is still a lot of runway left in both the multiskilling the remote operations and what we’re going to do on manufacturing and distribution as well as all the other parts of the transformation.
So we’re excited about it and there is a strong pull from the entire organization on this and we continue to work hard on implementing it.
Great thank you.
And if I could ask a follow-up quickly to Simon.
Would you be perhaps I noticed debt came down; total debt came down in the third quarter from the second quarter.
During the blackout would you be using free cash flow to further pay down debt or can we just assume that that cash builds on the balance sheet in that interim? So good question Michael.
Some of the -- most of our debt actually is a fixed debt.
So we do have certain percentage which is more reflective of commercial paper et cetera this will go down.
But as I said earlier and I like to repeat this that you’re going to see a large movement in our capital structure.
And perhaps eventually we will have a little bit more debt associated with the transaction coming from our North America or our U.S.-based subsidiary.
And this to acquire the shares from the parent company.
So you’re going to see a different type of movement and eventually there will be larger debt that we will have in the U.S.
subsidiary in order to acquire the shares.
Post close? In the meantime during the blackout period as you highlighted it would reflect into a reduction in the debt which is the current debt that is reflected in the simple [ph] program that we issue on daily basis.
Great thanks Simon.
We’ll go next to the line Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks good morning.
Paal I ask you about a couple of different markets outside of North America it seems like Latin America continues to trend some of the more – one of the more difficult international markets.
Could you maybe comment on Mexico and also particularly on Brazil given all the issues going on the Petrobras and some of the contract renegotiations and how you’re thinking about that market and how it may impact you in 2016? Yeah both markets as you point out both Mexico and Brazil have been very challenging this year.
Mexico even more than Brazil I would say.
So there has been significant budget reductions and they have continued throughout the year.
Like I mentioned in my prepared remarks our Q3 revenues now stands at an eight-year low which is quite remarkable for a sizable market as Mexico is for us.
So in terms of next year it’s still very early for both of these countries Mexico and Brazil but I think it’s going to be challenging as we enter into 2016.
Though I don’t have a lot of details of it yet but no positive signs either from Pemex or from Petrobras at this stage.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I’ll – my follow-up is on – just to circle back on international pricing understanding you’re kind of done with Round 1 but as you kind of look at the market today is pricing getting – is it starting to decline worse than it did earlier in the year or is there any sign of it stabilizing or do you get the sense that the pricing is slipping even more? And are there any particular markets internationally where you are seeing more pricing pressure than others? No it is not I’d say slipping further it’s just – there is a continuing pricing pressure in this part of a cycle.
It’s quite normal.
There is nothing special about it.
And as long as the outlook is negative then there will be continued pricing pressure.
Every bit that is out there is even increased competition to get it and that creates the downward pricing pressure.
So nothing exceptional.
I don’t see it accelerating.
Other than that is not going way and we will just continue to manage it and navigate it the way we have been doing so far in the downturn.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And the last question will come from Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Kurt.
So just I’m curious Paal when you think about the – going back to the M&amp;A dynamic the Eurasia deal kind of fell through that’s – is that something that still could be – come back on the table at some point going forward? And when you think more broadly about M&amp;A is the Schlumberger interest right now more in some geographic opportunities or is it in some product specific areas generally speaking? Just to say the Eurasia deal first of all obviously we were disappointed that we couldn’t get it closed within the several extensions of the timeline that we agreed with Eurasia.
But that deal is now closed for us.
So I don’t really have any more comments on that.
In terms of other M&amp;A we continue to be opportunistic.
I can’t go into details of what that will entail or what we may or may not do.
Other than that we have a broad view of the entire market and what opportunities are there what they are interested in.
And we continue to evaluate companies on a monthly basis and if there is a willing seller and a good price then we might be able to do something more but it’s still too early to say.
So I can’t promise anything or I can’t make any further comments on what may happen.
Other than that we continue to be active in assessing the market and look for opportunities to further extend and strengthen our portfolio and we keep generating the cash to allow us to do that.
Okay.
That’s great.
I’ll keep it there and we’re seeing a little bit.
Very good.
All right so before we close this morning I would like to summarize the three most important points we have discussed.
First while the business environment clearly got worsened in third quarter our focus on cost management and transformation has enabled us to deliver strong financial performance and generate significant liquidity which is a clear competitive edge in this part of the cycle.
Second our forward visibility has again been reduced and we will consequently revert back to managing the company quarter-by-quarter.
This means a further round of capacity and overhead reductions in the fourth quarter as we adjust resources to a lower activity outlook.
At the same time we will continue to accelerate our transformation program with the next step being a significant restructuring of our global manufacturing and distribution network which will further modernize the core part of our company.
And third our outlook for the oil market remains unchanged with a continuing tightening of the supply and demand balance as the dramatic cost in E&amp;P investments start to take full effect ultimately leading to an increase in oil prices.
Given the conservative view our customers are taking on 2016 investment levels and the general state of the industry following a year of low oil prices we see an increasing likelihood of a timing gap between higher oil prices and a subsequent increase in E&amp;P investment and oilfield activity.
In this environment we continue to proactively manage our business to preserve our financial strength into 2016 which will allow us to better navigate the market uncertainty and to respond faster to new business opportunities and ultimately higher activity.
Thank you for participating.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today's conference will be available for replay after 10 AM Eastern Time today running through November 16th at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 365406.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 365406.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Schlumberger Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to your host Vice President of Investor Relations Mr.
Simon Farrant.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to the Schlumberger Limited fourth quarter and full-year 2015 results conference call.
Today's call is being hosted from Houston following the Schlumberger Limited Board meeting yesterday.
Joining us on the call are Paal Kibsgaard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Simon Ayat Chief Financial Officer.
Our prepared comments will be provided by Simon and Paal.
Simon will first review the financial results and then Paal will discuss the operational and technical highlights.
However before we begin with the opening remarks I’d like to remind the participants that some of the statements we will be making today are forward-looking.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.
I therefore refer you to our latest 10-K filing and other SEC filings.
Our comments today may also include non-GAAP financial measures.
Additional details and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our fourth quarter press release which is on our Web site.
We welcome your questions after the prepared statements.
I’ll now turn the call over to Simon.
Thank you Simon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in this conference call.
Fourth quarter earnings per share excluding charges and credits was $0.65.
This represent decreases of $0.13 sequentially and $0.85 when compared to the same quarter last year.
During the quarter we reported $2.1 billion of pre-tax charges.
These charges are the direct result of the very challenging market conditions we’re operating in and they include severance impairment and restructuring charges.
The asset impairment charges largely relate to our North America business which as you know has been the hardest hit during this downturn.
All of these charges are described in detail in our earnings press release.
Our fourth quarter revenue of $7.7 billion decreased 9% sequentially.
Approximately one-third of the revenue decline was attributable to pricing.
Despite the very challenging environment both in terms of pricing and activity pre-tax operating margins only declined by 132 basis points sequentially to 16.6%.
This was due to continued strong and proactive cost management across the entire organization.
Sequential highlights by product group whereas follows.
Fourth quarter Reservoir Characterization revenue of $2.2 billion decreased 7% sequentially while margins decreased 230 basis points to 24.2%.
These declines were due to decreases in exploration spending that largely impacted wireline internationally.
We also did not see the year-end surge in multiclient and software sales that we typically experience in Q4.
Drilling Group revenue of $3 billion decreased 8% primarily due to pricing pressure and activity declines internationally that have mostly affected drilling and measurements and M-I SWACO.
As a result of strong cost management Drilling Group margins only declined 173 basis points to 16.7%.
Production Group revenue of $2.7 billion decreased 10% primarily due to the continued decline in land activity and further pricing pressure in North America.
Production Group margins were essentially flat at 11.3% as SPM projects and higher earnings from our investments in OneSubsea compensated for the effects of the lower activity and pricing pressure.
Now turning to Schlumberger as a whole.
The effective tax rate excluding charges and credits was 18.2% in the fourth quarter.
This was lower than the previous quarter by about 2 percentage points.
This decrease was largely due to the geographic mix of earnings between North America and the Rest of the World as well as the favorable revolution of certain tax contingencies and an R&amp;D credit during the quarter.
Excluding the impact of Cameron we expect the ETR in 2016 to be around 20%.
On a pro-forma basis we expect the combined Company ETR to be in the low 20s although this would remain sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings.
Our cash flow generation continues to be very strong.
During all of 2015 we generated $8.8 billion of cash flow from operations.
During the fourth quarter we generated $2.2 billion of cash flow from operations.
This is all despite making severance payments of approximately $800 million during 2015 and $200 million during the fourth quarter.
In light of our strong cash flow generation yesterday our Board of Directors approved a new $10 billion share buyback program.
This new program will be effective once the remaining $1.4 billion of authorization under the current program is exhausted.
During the quarter our net debt deteriorated a $343 million to $5.5 billion as we continue to invest in future revenue streams.
During the fourth quarter we spend $627 million on CapEx and invested approximately $600 million in SPM projects and $150 million in multiclient projects.
Full-year 2016 CapEx excluding multiclient and SPM investments is expected to be around $2.4 billion.
During the quarter we spend $398 million to repurchase 5.4 million shares at an average price of $73.86.
This is despite being prohibited under the securities laws from repurchasing our shares for about one month prior to the Cameron shareholder vote.
Let me take this opportunity to talk a little bit about the Cameron transaction.
In order to ensure an efficient capital structure within the group Schlumberger Holding Corporation our principal U.S subsidiary that we will also refer as SHC is the legal entity that will acquire Cameron.
SHC will acquire approximately 137 million shares of common stock from its parent and transfer these shares to Cameron shareholders.
SHC will also pay cash of approximately $2.8 billion in connection with this transaction.
During the fourth quarter SHC issued $6 billion of notes.
These notes have the weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.15% and have maturities to ranging from 2017 to 2025.
SHC will use the proceeds from this debt issuance to partially fund the purchase of the 137 million shares from the parent company.
SHC will then use a combination of cash on hand and commercial paper borrowings to finance the difference between the proceeds received from the issuance of these notes and the cash required to complete the Cameron merger.
As a result of this debt issuance Schlumberger’s pre-tax interest expense will increase approximately $40 million in Q1 as compared to Q4.
As we close the Cameron transaction we will begin to incur merger and integration related costs.
These will include transaction costs the cost of the integration team one-off purchase accounting adjustments as well as one-off cost to achieve the synergies.
These amounts will be most significant in the quarter the transaction closes and the quarters immediately following the merger.
We will separately call out these charges for you as are incurred.
And now I will turn the conference over to Paal.
Thank you Simon and good morning everyone.
Negative market sentiments intensified in the fourth quarter with global oil production of oil continuing extending the various trend in global oil inventories and causing a further fall in oil prices which reach a 12-year low in December.
The worsening market conditions added further pressure to the deep financial crisis throughout the oil and gas value chain and prompt the operators to make further cuts to the already low E&amp;P investment levels.
For many of our customers available cash and annual budgets were exhausted well before the half way point over the fourth quarter leading to unscheduled and abrupt activity cancellations creating an operating environment that is increasingly complex to navigate and where the traditional year-end product and multiclient seismic sales were largely muted.
As planned we implemented another significant adjustment to our cost and resource base during the fourth quarter including the release of 10 000 employees as well as further streamlining of our overhead infrastructure and asset base.
In spite of these significant structural adjustments our overall fourth quarter results were in some areas impacted by events that were either outside of our control or where we chose to maintain cost and resource levels pending availability of additional customer budgets in the New Year.
However as we exited the fourth quarter I believe we’ve made the necessary adjustments to our cost and resource base and that we’re well positioned to continue to deliver solid financial results in both the first quarter and throughout 2016 which will clearly be another very challenging year for our industry.
Looking closer at our fourth quarter results global revenue fell 9% sequentially driven by a continuing decline in rig activity and persistent pricing pressure throughout our global operations together with a broad range of activity disruptions project delays and cancellations.
In North America revenue was down 14% sequentially which is inline with the reduction in the drilling rig counts and driven by exhausted customer budgets and cash flows together with the extended holiday period.
Our North American pre-tax operating margins remain very resilient at 7.1% driven by proactive cost and resource management excellent performance from our supply chain and distribution organization strong execution and new technology sales from our operations all of which were further supported by our transformation program.
On land in both U.S and Canada the weakening activity resulted in additional commercial pressure for all product lines and in particular in pressure pumping where pricing levels drop further into unsustainable territory for both operating margins and cash flow.
We also saw continuous pricing pressure and activity reductions in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico as the drilling rig count drops by another 2% sequentially and where year-end multiclient seismic sales were largely muted.
Turning to the international markets revenue were 6% lower sequentially as customer budget cuts the start of the seasonal winter slowdown and the absence of the traditional year-end product and multiclient seismic sales all impacted results.
Our fourth quarter international operating margins drop to 22% driven by a further pricing pressure and unfavorable revenue mix and a significant impact of activity disruptions particularly in the Middle East and Asia.
In Latin America revenue declined 1% sequentially with pre-tax operating margins improving by 229 basis points to 23%.
In terms of revenue solid activity in Mexico and Ecuador was offset by a further budget reductions in Colombia and Brazil while the weakening of the peso had a negative impact in our fourth quarter revenue in Argentina.
Margins remain resilient across the area as the cost and resource base adjustments made during the previous quarter took full effect and as we continue to leverage our transformation program.
This combination more than offset the persistent pricing pressure we saw throughout our customer base.
In Europe/CIS/Africa revenue fell 9% sequentially while pre-tax operating margins dropped 138 basis points to 20.8%.
The drop in revenue was led by Russia and Central Asia where a further weakening of the ruble the start of the seasonal winter slowdown in Russia and a noticeable reduction in activity throughout the Caspian region all impacted the results.
In Europe activity in Norway was resilient but this was more than offset by a significant reduction in continental Europe and U.K.
while in Africa solid in Nigeria and Algeria was not enough to offset the further weakening in the Central and West Africa.
In the Middle East and Asia revenue declined by 5% sequentially while pre-tax operating margins decreased by 448 basis points to 22.5%.
The sequential drop in revenue was led by Asia where we saw a general weakening in activity throughout the region which was most pronounced in Malaysia and Australia where project ended and customer budgets were cut further.
Fourth quarter revenue was also down in the Middle East where solid activity in Kuwait and Iraq was more than offset by reductions in the rest of the region.
In terms of operating margins pricing pressure across the area was only partly offset by adjustments to our cost and resource base and where project cancellations delayed start off of new project and activity disruptions due to 2015 budget limitations all contributed to the sequential reduction in operating margins.
Our fourth quarter results cap a year where we’ve faced the most severe industry downturn in 30 years but where we through proactive management and strong execution have shown that we can navigate the challenging operating environment better than most and produce solid financial results while maintaining the bandwidth to pursue and capitalize on opportunities that strengthen the competitive position of the Company.
So as we prepare for another very challenging year I’d like to summarize what we’ve delivered in 2015 as this sets a very good benchmark for our expectations and ambitions for the year to come.
Looking first at the top line full-year revenue dropped by 27% in 2015 driven by a 39% drop in North America where we’ve further strengthen our market position in spite of our decision not to pursue work that falls outside of our financial return requirements.
Our international revenue fell by 21% in 2015 which is comparable to the drop in E&amp;P investments.
Included in this revenue drop is both the impact of our higher leverage towards the exploration deepwater and seismic markets where E&amp;P investment saw significantly higher reductions and also included the impact of the strong dollar against a number of foreign currencies.
These revenue mix headwinds are fully absorbed in our results at this stage which makes our international business a highly compressed coiled spring which we will capitalize on when E&amp;P investments and customer activity starts recovering.
In addition to this we’ve in the past year significantly increased our tender win rate which further strengthens our very solid contracts portfolio and puts us in a great position to increase market share going forward.
Looking at 2015 profitability full-year global operating margins fell by only 342 basis points to 18.4% as we maintained our wide margin lead in the international markets and as we now are also approaching a similar margin gap in North America.
We’ve managed to protect our margins due to a very proactive approach to cost and resource management and by further accelerating our corporate transformation program.
Together these actions have delivered detrimental margins of 31% in 2015 which is about half the level seen in previous downturns.
Turning next to cash our free cash flow in 2015 was about $5 billion which represents net income conversion rate of 114%.
This includes CapEx of $2.4 billion which is now down to 59% of DNA in addition to investments of $1.4 billion in future revenue streams in the areas of SPM and multiclient seismic.
Our ability to generate free cash in this part of the cycle is unmatched in the oil field services industry and gives us a unique ability to capitalize on the significant business opportunities that the current market conditions present.
From our free cash flow we’ve returned $4.6 billion of cash to our shareholders through $2.4 billion in dividend payments and $2.2 billion worth of stock buyback.
In addition to this we’ve spent about $500 million on M&amp;A where we continue to target smaller disruptive technology companies that we can integrate into our existing and future workflows and deploy through our expensive global organization.
The strength of our free cash flow can also be seen from our net debt level which has only increased by $160 million on a full-year basis driven by the financial performance I’ve just described.
With respect to the pending Cameron transaction the integration plans are now largely completed and we are fully ready for day one.
We still expect to close the transaction during the first quarter of 2016 and we’ve already received antitrust approvals from the U.S.
Canada Russia and Brazil.
The fact that we structured the deal to include 78% of stock provides us with a necessary installation from the ongoing market turmoil and during the fourth quarter we also secured the required financing for our U.S entity that will make the acquisition.
Turning next to people we’ve in the past year unfortunately have to reduce more than 34 000 employees which represents an unprecedented number for the Company and where we all have been impacted as we’ve gone through the disheartening process of letting colleagues and friends go in all parts of the Company.
I’m at this stage optimistic thing we’ve completed the workforce reductions required in this downturn and I look forward to be able to shift focus throughout our organization from the negative sentiments of the past year towards a brighter future as we work through the remaining challenges of this downturn.
In terms of R&amp;D we did reduce investment levels in 2015 but we were still able to protect our capabilities and ensure the progress of all our key projects.
In the past year we made solid advances on several new technology fronts through a combination of organic and inorganic efforts and we look forward to update you further on this in our external communications in the coming year.
And lastly in 2015 we significantly accelerated our corporate transformation program stepping up both investment levels and the detailed engagement of our global organization.
As part of this we prepared a comprehensive and granular three-year transformation plan covering each of our 600 business units with specific deliverables and business impact goals set at all levels in our organization.
In parallel with this we’ve delivered noticeable cost savings and efficiency gains that can be seen in our 2015 financial results together with a 23% reduction in our customer NPT rate which is the largest annual improvement we’ve ever achieved.
In summary while 2015 has been extremely challenging year for the industry and for Schlumberger we’ve clearly demonstrated our ability to navigate a complex landscape and capitalize on the opportunities the current business environment presents and we’re fully prepared to repeat these efforts and achievements in 2016.
So while we all look forward to a recovery in the oil price and the market conditions in our industry it is evident that the longer the current market environment continues the stronger we will emerge as a Company relative to our competitors when the upturn ultimately comes.
Turning next to the market outlook we still believe that the underlying balance of supply and demand continues to tighten driven by both solid growth in demand and by weakening supply as the dramatic cuts in E&amp;P investments are starting to take effect.
In North America our shale oil production is declining more or less as we expected and was in December below the levels from one year ago.
The apparent resilience in production outside of OPEC and North America is in many cases driven by producers opening the taps wide open to maximize cash flow which also means that we will likely see higher decline rates after these short-term actions are exhausted.
So while the global oil market is still being weighed down by fares to reduce growth in Chinese demand the magnitude of additional uranium exports and the continued various trends in global oil inventories we still expect a positive movement in oil prices during 2016 with specific timing being the function of the shape of the non-OPEC decline rates.
This means that the market outlook for oil field services in the coming quarters will remain challenging at the pressure on activity and service pricing is set to continue.
It also means that 2016 E&amp;P investment levels will fall for a second successive year and that any significant recovery in our activity levels will be a 2017 event.
Still at Schlumberger we remain confident in our ability to weather this downturn much better than our surroundings and to our global reach the strength of our technology offering and our corporate transformation program we’re currently creating a considerable leverage that will enable us to increase revenue market share deliver superior earnings and margins and continue to generate unmatched levels of free cash flow.
Thank you very much.
We will now open up for questions.
Okay.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ole Slorer from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you very much and congrats with another great -- relatively great year with free cash flow and solid performance.
Thank you Ole.
Thanks.
When it comes to the macro outlook that you just painted how should we think about the overall oilfield macro cycle? And relative to the internal momentum that you’re creating within Schlumberger with respect to the ongoing transformation process I presume that a lot of the lowest hanging fruit has been picked in the transformation process.
So if you could just bring us up to speed about how we should think about earnings projections over the next couple of quarters several quarters with respect to those two kind of factors? Well if you look at our earnings trajectory in the coming quarters it is obviously largely going to be driven by what continues to happen in the market around us in terms of the spend from our customers.
But if you look at our ability to I would say counter the significant pricing pressure as well as the activity reductions the transformation is indeed playing a significant role.
I think it’s fair to say like you say that a lot of the low hanging fruits we’ve already picked but we’re now getting into the deeper part of the transformation where we’re making significant structural changes to how we go about doing our work and conducting our business.
And this is basically laid out in the three-year plan that we worked on in 2015 which is going to take us from 2016 all the way out to 2019.
And here we’ve broken down all the initiatives into specific actions and plans and targets for all the various business units we’ve around the world and I think with this I would say formalized way of driving performance I think we should look to put even more impact into our results in the coming three years and what you seen in the previous years.
Okay.
I’ll take that.
With respect to the free cash flow that you generated and clearly having a strong balance sheet today is I’d imagine whereas an awful lot when it comes to the bargaining power that you’ve around the world.
So how should we think about the opportunity around generating that or putting that to work as internal CapEx versus SPM which I saw you just picked up a bit now again in the fourth quarter and versus acquisitions? Well first of all we continue to have a very strong focus on generating the cash.
And I think 2015 was another solid year.
It was not perfect.
There were several things that I think we could have done better but $5 billion of free cash flow in this environment is not bad.
Now how we go about spending the cash there is really no change to the philosophy that we’ve in any part of this cycle.
The first thing we look to is to reinvest into the business and that is CapEx for the service and product segments that we have.
In 2016 we’re going to keep CapEx flat with 2015 and that you may ask why? If you look at the base business it is indeed coming down but we’ve certain new activities that we’re looking to invest into in particular the land drilling market for the rig of the future and there is a few other strategic investments that we’re looking to make when it comes to our internal CapEx.
In addition to this we continue to invest in future revenue streams both multiclient seismic where we’ve a significant program going on in Mexico.
And at this stage of the cycle there are also significant SPM opportunities and we’ve really stepped up our efforts in screening and evaluating these opportunities and we will capitalize on them when they meet our internal requirements.
Beyond this we review dividends annually.
We are not increasing dividends this year.
And then beyond that for the coming year it’s going to be a balancing of the opportunities we’ve on M&amp;A and the opportunities we have to buyback our stock.
That is how we’re planning to spend the cash.
Simon you want to add something? No I think you’ve summarized it very well.
I guess 2016 is going to be marked by the big event of integrating Cameron and there is a lot of transaction as I described.
We bought up $6 billion and we will be paying for the acquisition.
We are also issuing shares but we’ve the $10 billion in new program that w e will commence as soon as we exhaust the previous one.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of James West from Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning Paal.
Good morning.
And congratulations also on -- just excellent execution really all year for you and your management team and all your employees and especially in the fourth quarter.
Thank you very much.
I wanted to follow-up a little bit on what you were talking about there in the second part of Ole’s question about really the SPM business.
It seems -- I did notice the pickup in the fourth quarter that’s probably project timing but are you -- at this point are you chasing more projects? Are you getting more inbounds? And you talked a little bit about or you mentioned that your screening process had been updated or upgraded.
Could you talk a little bit more about that and how you see this playing out over the next couple of quarters couple of years? Yes we’re seeing significantly more SPM opportunities at this stage of the cycle given our ability to generate cash and given the status of our balance sheet.
So we’ve -- we haven’t changed our screening process but we’ve put more resources into it so we can process more of these opportunities.
And we’re prepared to step up our investments in SPM.
As you noted there was a step up in Q4 and it might not be at that level every quarter going forward but I’d say that going into 2016 SPM is an area that we’re interested in investing further in.
It provides us with solid long-term contract.
It provides us with the ability to deploy our entire capability set and generate good returns and good cash for the Company.
So it is a very interesting opportunity set for us that we’re actively pursuing.
Okay.
And then maybe another follow-up the press release was littered with technology success stories and it seems like the technology adoption rate has picked up significantly during the downturn.
I know you have given out numbers before on sales percentage of sales on new technologies.
Could you give us an update there on what you’re seeing on the adoption rates and if that percentages has improved? Yes during this downturn the level of new technology sales which is basically technologies that we have commercialized in the past five years is at a significantly higher level than what we’ve seen in previous downturns.
The new technology sales as a percentage of total revenues in 2015 is 24% which is markedly higher than what we saw in the previous downturn in 2008 2009.
This is partially down to the broad range of technologies that we have and in fact that a number of them are focused on driving I would say cost and efficiency for our customers.
And these type of technology are as valid in terms of being bought and being operated during the downturn as they are in the upturn.
So strong sales and we continue to commercialize new technologies during 2015.
So this obviously has had a very good impact on our financial performance in the past year and I expect it to continue to do that in the year to come.
Perfect.
Thanks Paal.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Angie Sedita from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I echo the sentiment very solid quarter for the quarter and for the year given good business conditions so well done.
Maybe Paal we can go a little bit more granular on thoughts and obviously 2016 is a question mark but thoughts into Q1 on a geo-market basis and walk us through where you’re thinking on a revenue and margin sign if you will? Well I’m not going to review the details by air Angie what I think we’re going to do.
If you’re looking for an indication of how we -- what we plan for and how we see Q1 shaping up its going to be another very challenging quarter both from an activity and a pricing standpoint.
The reasons new lows in oil prices is going to be reflected in lower REIT content and more activity disruptions we believe.
This is going to be continued budget pressure throughout the first half from all customer groups where they now have to operate within cash flow.
In addition we’re going to see the winter slowdown in the Northern hemisphere in Q1 which is going to be another activity headwind.
So I would say that rather than going into margins and revenues if we focus in on EPS I would say that the current Q1 EPS consensus is probably a best case scenario from what we can see today in terms of Q1 earnings.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then on Cameron I know there is only so much you can say at this point.
But if you have any further color you can talk about on the opportunity set within Cameron as you move forward.
But also talk us through or walk us through the integration of Cameron within Schlumberger both operationally and how it will show up in the financial? Right.
So on the start up of the integration we are largely ready with our integration plans.
We’ve had a sizable team made up of both Cameron and Schlumberger please working diligently on preparing these plans since we announced the transaction back in August.
We reviewed all the plans in December and they have been approved and we are basically ready for day one at this stage.
Closing is now basically pending a few more countries in terms of antitrust approvals and we do expect that we will close during the first quarter.
In terms of synergies the detailed work that we’ve done has really confirmed the numbers that we put up at the announcement.
Lots of opportunities which initially are going to be cost focus but this transaction is largely a revenue transaction and we are very excited about what we can do by joining the R&amp;D forces of the two companies and creating the integrated drilling and production systems that we have laid out earlier.
In terms of integrating Cameron as an organization it would actually be a fairly simply task.
Because Cameron as it is today will become the fourth product group of Schlumberger together with characterization drilling and production.
And Scott Rowe the CEO of Cameron is going to join us and continue to head of Cameron in its present form.
So the main thing we were focusing are in terms of integration initially.
It’s going to be to coordinate the customer interface and to streamline the back office and also then morph or merge over time the R&amp;D organization.
So it is relatively a simple integration because Cameron would slide in in its present form into Schlumberger as the fourth group.
All right.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
I’ll turn it over.
Your next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just had a -- I had a couple of quick follow-up questions and some discussions within investors around the SPM dynamic.
And in that context Paal just given the decline in oil prices year-to-date and the write down on the project in Colombia there’s some questions out there just relating to potential incremental risk around existing SPM projects and maybe you could put that into the context of maybe how you access risk on varying projects and maybe how you look at it from a portfolio approach? Right.
So if you want to -- let’s start off with the write down we did in Colombia which is really an isolated event.
This is a project that’s being going on between 10 and 15 years.
We’re in the later years of the project.
And it’s really the only project at this stage in our portfolio that has our compensation directly linked to the oil price.
So with only a few years left and the oil price being at the very low level this is what caused the impairment of the -- or the remaining balance we have.
If you look at the rest of the portfolio and the new contract that we’ve entered into in recent years these are all fee per barrel type of contract where obviously the project economics are linked to the oil price but where our compensation is basically an isolated fee per barrel set up.
So as with any of these projects they do carry a higher risk than what our base business does.
But we are -- I would say very comfortable with being able to -- I would say identify and manage these risks.
And with the screening process we had with the internal approval process that we have I’m very comfortable with the step that we have in terms of the projects that we take on and that these all will generate very good returns for the company.
And I would also say that the project in Colombia overall provided also very good returns and good cash flow throughout the life of the project.
All right.
That was great color.
Then maybe if I could follow-up just on the margin front.
If I understand correctly you guys are trying to manage your business such that you can maintain a 20% margin maybe internationally here at the trough and maybe 5% in the North American market.
I know a lot of that is being driven by your transformation process.
And given the drop that we’ve had recently in oil price and the impact that we’ll have on E&amp;P spend drop in 2016 how much harder do you think its going to be to maybe maintain those targets? But obviously fighting the margin pressure with both dramatic reductions in activity and significant pricing pressure it’s tough.
We have the added tool in our tool kit which is the transformation on top of our very very solid management team that is excellent at executing but it is tough to maintain margins at the levels that we currently see.
I’m very pleased with how the North America team has managed and navigated in the past year and 7.1% in Q4 I think is excellent.
It’s going to be tough to continue to keep it at these levels.
But with the energy and the focus our team on the ground in North America has I’m optimistic that we will continue to significantly outperform the rest of the field there.
Now if you look at the international margins they are actually holding up recently well.
We’re now six quarters into the downturn internationally and we’re all at 253 basis points down which is basically half what we saw in 2009 in the last downturn.
But it’s a very dynamic environment and there’s always going to be quarterly variations driven by unplanned events.
And if you look at LAM for an example we had a big drop in Q3; yes we managed to close that back in Q4.
Some of the actions that we put in place in the third quarter took full effect.
Now in Q4 we did see a significant impact on our MEA margins and part of this is pricing and part of it is permanent activity reduction.
But there is also a significant part which is temporary which is down to delays and stoppages.
And if you look at the team we have on the ground they have a long list of actions in place to address what they can in order to offset some of these margin headwinds.
So I can't promise you that we’re going to get all the margins back in MEA but I would say that the MEA team is clearly unhappy having being surpassed by the LAM team at the most profitable area.
So I really look forward to the internal competition between these two.
That’s great color.
Thanks a lot Paal.
Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael LaMotte from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Michael your line is open.
Check your mute button.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Paal you mentioned a couple of times the three year transformation plan and I imagine you’ll go into more detail in April.
But can you just broad stroke the key categories that were identified as new areas of opportunity in the three year plan? Yes.
There is no new areas that we have identified.
What we’re doing with the three year plan is that in the past couple of years there’s been a lot of work done in the central team formulate the detailed concepts and principals of how we want to change how we operate our business.
And these initiatives and these concepts are all now fully mature and they come together with a change management process that we have also put a lot of effort into designing.
And what we’re doing with the three year plan is basically formalizing how each of these initiatives will now be translated into actions and results throughout the global organization.
So in the past couple of years we have been pursuing the low hanging fruit.
We are now going into the -- to the structural changes of our business that would also provide an additional step of savings and improvements in the years to come.
But the focus is around asset and inventory management its maintenance and repairs transportation distribution supply chain back office quality assurance.
It’s all the things that we’ve talked about in previous years but its now being formalized and itemized down to the business unit levels.
We have around 600 business units down to the country level and they all now have specific actions and targets on each of these line items to implement the changes that we have been preparing centrally for the past few years.
Okay.
And as we think about the financial impact is order of magnitude similar to the low hanging fruit it’s just the timing in terms of the flow through the impact may take a little longer? How do we think about the implications on the financials? Well I’d say the impact of the transformation going forward will at least be as big as it’s been in previous year and probably even higher in the years to come as we really start changing fundamental parts of how we conduct business.
So this is not decreasing I would say it’s stable to increasing in terms of impact going forward.
Okay.
So low hanging fruit doesn’t mean expect less going forward? No absolutely not.
Great.
All right.
Thanks.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of James Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Jim.
Obviously the Cameron Schlumberger OneSubsea JV has been a big success it led to marriage.
And now you’re doing an MoU with Golar and looking on gas monetization solutions.
Can you talk about how far the breadth -- how far this takes you the Schlumberger Octopus grabs another segment of business? Can you talk a little bit about where this should go and why you did it? Well this is an MoU where we’ve had -- we had good discussions about the concepts of how we can combine some of our capabilities and efforts with the capabilities that Golar has and this is something that we will continue to work with them going forward.
It is an interesting I would say combination.
And I don’t have a lot of comments beyond this at this stage other than that it is the partnership that we’re looking to establish and to grow going forward.
Okay.
And just again breadth.
You’ve got now subsea you’ve got equipment you’re doing gas monetization.
Kurt and James asked about the SPM business.
You had said before in previous conference calls that you'd embrace a number of different business models.
Is this the fruition of those kind of statements? I would say it is.
But we don’t know this it doesn’t change the fact that the main part of our business is I would say oil free services and products and equipments.
So we will continue to focus on leading each individual market that we continue that we participate in for individual products and services.
But with the integration capabilities and with the ability we have to pursue different type of business models we are also looking to combine all of these things like you indicate Jim to create more business opportunities for the company.
So we are not pursuing only these.
We have a huge focus on making sure that we standout and we continue to drive performance in the base business.
But when you combine all of these things there is a broad range of opportunities for us that we’re also pursuing.
That’s very helpful.
And my follow-up if I could.
Are we willing to take the chance and say that 2016 could be the bottom of the cycle or do you guys think today that 2017 will be worse than 2016? Well I think it’s too early to say Jim but I’m -- I don’t currently think that 2017 is going to be worse.
I think -- but with that said I’m still not ready to say that we are troughing in 2016.
I’ll be focusing in on executing basically quarter-by-quarter.
I’m still optimistic and I would hope that 2016 is the trough but I’m not ready to rule on it yet.
We'll keep our fingers crossed as well.
Thanks sir very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Back to SPM I’m curious with regard to the projects that you’re seeing.
Is there any change with regard to the kind of projects that you’re seeing now on a leading edge basis more offshore versus onshore? And then moreover with regard to as you evaluate these projects recognizing that there’re are fee per barrel on the one hand there must be an embedded oil price assumed as you’re looking at these projects in terms of a threshold oil price is required for the NSC to make capital if it is an NSC partner on these.
So can you talk about the mix of projects how it has changed and embedded oil prices associated with the capital allocation? Right.
So on the projects there is no shift in what the projects are.
I mean we’re looking at a certain set of projects.
These are relatively small compared to what our customers would be interest in.
And they are generally late life fields where we can come in and try to change the decline curve and add reserves and production to the field in late life.
We are generally focused on LAM and the only thing I would say is that the opportunity set has increased.
There are more customers that are coming to us now that has these types of fields and they’re interested in doing these types of business models with us.
So there’s not a dramatic shift in the type of assets that we’re looking at but generally there’s more of them.
And for the fields that we enter into a contract zone obviously we will have to look at the total economics of the field for the lifetime of the contract which is generally I would say at least 15 years.
So in that it’s obviously important that the total project is economical and then the way we set up our contract is today generally on the fee per barrel where we are I would say insulated against variations in oil price.
That being said if it goes down we don’t get hit at all.
But again we are leavening the upside to our customers if oil prices are higher than what is in the assumption.
So we have a very I would say solid process on evaluating this.
And like I said earlier in the call we’re actively pursuing these type of contracts where we can get the terms that we want contractually and where we are satisfied that the reservoir holds the upside both in production and reserves.
Okay.
And another one from me sort of an extension of Jim's question in terms of testing the boundaries as to how broad how plausibly broad your business model extends to; and that is; are you contemplating or evaluating anything on the clean technology front? No not at this stage.
I mean we continue to -- I mean if you look at minimizing the environmental impact with what we do at the company and our carbon footprint absolutely we have several programs in place both in terms of of how we conduct business as well as how we develop new technologies on this.
But in terms of venturing outside of our current space which oil conservatives there is no plans of doing that at this stage.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Anderson from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
A question on kind of your Middle East Asia Pac business; obviously margins came down a good bit this quarter and a lot going on behind the scenes.
I was wondering if you could help me kind of sort out some of the dynamics behind there.
You talked about some activity disruptions in the Middle East.
There's pricing going on.
Asia Pac is probably also down -- probably also going to get hit pretty hard as well.
Can you help us kind of understand some of those and how much of that’s kind of one time you think on the quarter? Now I tried hard -- I tried to answer that earlier David in the call and I would just say that yes MEA margins dropped a fair bit in Q4 but there are variations in terms of all operations of activity that you will basically get some variations and in margins going forward.
I gave LaMotte the example.
Now there is significant pricing pressure.
There is lower activity in parts of MEA but are also some temporary aspects of what happened in the quarter where there were delays of big projects in terms of the startup where we had significant resources standing by and there were also some customers that stopped activity during the quarter because they were running out of annual budgets.
And these budgets are going to be replenished now in January in which case we decided to carry the cost under resources.
So I cannot promise you that we will regain all the loses in Q4 in terms of margins but lots of actions in place to try to repeat what we’ve done in LAM over the course of 2015.
Those operational disruptions do you think a lot of those are going to come back in the first quarter? Some of them will.
And some of the -- for the ones that -- well we know which one they are and those are the ones to be carried the resources for.
And for the ones that aren’t you also know what they are in which case we have been cutting the resources.
And then on the pricing concessions Paal you’ve been talking about and you talked about it last quarter as well.
Is this on kind of new work that's being tendered or is this kind of pricing concessions on existing contracts? It’s a combination.
When you tender for new work you will need to access what the growing rate in the market is and in some cases you’ll get the opportunity to hang on to the existing contracts or even extend them provided there are some concessions given.
So this is a combination.
Okay.
And would the transformation -- does the transformation you think offset pricing over time largely? Well if you look at internationally in 2015 we have managed to offset internationally quite a lot of it.
Can we do all of it? That’s probably going to be tough.
But it is a significant counter to the pricing pressure that we’re seeing yes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Paal I was hoping before we ended the call that perhaps you could just speak generally about customer expectations internationally in terms of CapEx for ‘16.
I mean do you guys have a bottoms-up view yet at this point in terms of the size of the decline we could see as we try to think about calibrating overall top-line international revenue declines potentially for ‘16? Well I mean if you look at 2015 national spend was down about 20%.
And then there is a range of surveys out now from third parties and the kind of average or consensus from these surveys is about I would say more than a 10% reduction in international spend.
So if you go by these then yes it will be another challenging year.
But also I think while we look at full year numbers I think its also important to keep in mind the five or six quarters slide we have seen now in international E&amp;P spend where we have had a significant drop in our revenue from Q4 of 2014 versus -- down to Q4 of this year and into Q1 of ’16.
So while the year-over-year numbers for full year matters I think it’s also important to look at the quarter levels we have now which is obviously significantly down.
And actually if you do the Q1 revenue consensus for us based on what your guys analysts have done four times that is already 17% down overall in revenue for us.
So in that sense the current level of activity and spend is already way down on a full year basis going forward.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
I guess Simon one for you.
Given the pending Cameron acquisition here in the first quarter is there any blackout period on Schlumberger being able to buyback stock as we approach that close? No none.
Actually we are -- we will after the blackout because of the earnings which is just in couple of days we will be free to go back to the market.
No none Bill.
Okay.
I’ll turn it back.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
And your final question today comes from the line of Dan Boyd from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
I have a question for Simon and more on the currency side continuing there.
It looks like you’ve done a really good job so far this year of managing the currency risk.
So I would just like to understand how do you manage the currency risk in SPM projects especially as you ramp those? And then if you could just help us you quantified the revenue impact from currency this year.
Can you help us with the international margin impact from how well you manage the currency? Okay.
Well thanks.
The last question.
Let me just take overall the currency situation.
As far as our international operation overall we have a natural hedge which what it means is basically we match the revenue that we get the local currency.
It is inline with our local cost and local currencies it varies between jurisdictions.
So in some areas we loose a bit on the currency but then gains in other places compensate for it.
In 2015 you’ve seen the numbers; we have lost a lot of revenue because of currency.
And almost 20% of the reduction of revenue between 2014 to 2015 was currency but actually did not impact the margin significantly.
So it is all international.
Yes there is a bit of Canada but the rest is outside NAM and we manage it as I said it is natural hedge.
We prevent ourselves from taking more local currency than we consume locally for local cost.
As far as SPM is concerned normally most of our SPM projects actually are dollar based revenue wise and those that have local currency they will basically reflect the same policy that I just mentioned to you that we don’t take more than what we locally require for our cost and the third part that it is also bigger in SPM project.
So naturally -- we are naturally hedged.
Okay.
So that -- are you saying that your margins didn't benefit from the currency? If your EBIT held up this year you could have a few hundred basis point benefit in your margin.
Is that accurate? No the currency -- big impact of the currency this last year was one because of Venezuela because we changed the currency rate.
But otherwise did not impact us on the margins.
Okay.
Thank you.
Turn it over to Paal Matt Thank you Simon.
So before we close this morning I’d just like to summarize the three most important points that we have discussed.
First the business environment in the oil industry we can further into fourth quarter leaving traditional reductions in both activity and pricing levels and making 2015 the worse industry downturn since 1986.
In spite of this we delivered strong full year performance compared to previous downturns generating $5 billion in free cash flow and returning $4.6 billion in cash to our shareholders through dividends and buybacks.
In addition we spent $500 million on technology acquisitions that further broadened our portfolio and yet we increased our net debt by only $160 million.
Second 2016 will be another challenging year during which we will aim to continue to deliver superior financial results empowered with proceeding and capitalizing on the broad opportunity set the current market environment presents.
We remain constructive in our view on the market outlook for the medium term and continue to believe that the underlying balance of supply and demand is tightening driven by growth in demand weakening supply as the massive cuts in the E&amp;P investments take further effect and by the size of the annual supply replacement challenge.
Lastly we look forward to closing our merger with Cameron International during the first quarter where the integration planning is largely complete for day one and with anti-trust approvals all progressing on track.
We are excited about what the combination of our two companies will bring.
I look forward to joining forces with more than 20 000 Cameron employees.
Overall we remain confident in our ability to continue to weather this downturn embedded in our surroundings through our global reach the strength of our technology offering and the extent of our corporate transformation program.
That concludes the call.
Thank you very much for attending.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 AM Central Time today through February 22.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 373076.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code of 373076.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.