Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday April 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
Alright good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this call management will make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business management’s plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during the call management will refer to EBITDA which is the non-GAAP financial measure and in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and EBITDA on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Last night we reported revenue of $414 million EBITDA of $93.3 million and a net income of $15.5 million or $0.19 per diluted share for our first quarter results.
The quarter evolved as we expected and as we previously discussed on our last earnings call.
There was slightly better performance in the U.S.
land market than what we originally projected.
As expected the Gulf of Mexico activity had a significant decline from the fourth quarter with revenue down 18%.
We did see an increase in accommodation rental in the Gulf but drill pipe rentals were lower.
We also experienced a decline in completion production and end-of-life project work due to seasonality and a lack of permitting during the quarter pretty much exactly as we expected.
International revenue declined 18% primarily due to lower utilization for vessels performing at subsea inspection repair and maintenance work.
We did experience a slight uptick in international revenue for our Drilling Products and Services due to growth in Brazil West Africa Asia and the Middle East.
Activity in the domestic land markets continues to grow.
Although our revenue grew 5% some of our larger core product lines like coiled tubing and downhole drilling tools witnessed a revenue increase of 12% as compared with the 2% increase in the drilling rig count.
We adjusted our guidance lower to reflect the $500 million senior note offering that Robert will discuss shortly.
So the new earnings per share range is $1.62 to $2.02.
From an operational standpoint we are maintaining the same outlook and guidance that we provided in our last call as the same factors and drivers apply.
We believe the fourth quarter of 2010 excluding the special charges will be a good baseline for the second quarter of this year with the additional growth potential coming from new assets that are currently being deployed.
Our capital spending plans for 2011 are on track.
We successfully placed 2 additional coiled tubing units in the field to date and expect 5 additional coiled tubing units to be delivered before the end of the second quarter.
We are encouraged by the pace of deepwater drilling permits.
Our customers have contacted us for downhole drilling tools on most of the permitted projects so we are hopeful that these permits will result in new drilling activity very soon.
Shallow water market is beginning to improve as it always does this time of year.
This should mean increased demand for intervention and end-of-life services in liftboats.
We are in the process of starting 2 international decommissioning projects one involving P&amp;A work in Indonesia that I spoke to you about last quarter and the other performing platform removal work in the Red Sea.
Finally we expect higher utilization for our subsea operating vessels in Southeast Asia and other parts of the eastern hemisphere as the number of projects we're bidding on has increased since the first quarter.
Robert will walk you through some of the financials in more detail and then we'll take your questions.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment revenue was $262 million and income was up from operations with $11 million which represents sequential decrease of 15% and 54% respectively.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was down 22% to $84 million with Marine Engineering and Product Management services incurring the largest reduction due to a slowdown in shallow water activity.
International revenue was $62 million down 27% primarily due to reduced demand for vessels performing subsea inspection and repair and maintenance work.
We also experienced a decline in pressure control work [ph].
Domestic land revenue increased 3% to $116 million highlighted by a 10% increase in coiled tubing which was partially offset by a lower demand for pressure control services.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $128 million and income from operations was $21.7 million which represents a 7% sequential increase in revenue and a 30% sequential increase in operations.
First quarter was a great example of the high incremental margins in this segment.
Drilling Products and Services have relatively low-cost so a higher percentage of incremental revenue falls to the bottom line as was the case in most of the quarter.
Our domestic land revenue increased 10% to $63 million as the result of increased demand for premium drill pipes bottomhole assemblies and accommodations.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue grew 8% to $26 million due to an increase in rentals of accommodation units.
Revenue from the international markets increased 1% sequentially to $39 million primarily due to the increased rental for premium drill pipes and accessories.
In the Marine segment revenue decreased 21% to $23.7 million while income from operation was $1.2 million which excludes the gain on sales of liftboats.
Liftboat utilization decreased to 57% from 72% in the fourth quarter of 2010 as the result of seasonal factors and reduced permitting for shallow water projects.
We pulled 3 liftboats from our 145 155 fleet as we continue to focus on larger liftboats that support our shallow water Gulf of Mexico operations.
In March we exchanged our 33% equity interest in SPN Resources and 25% equity interest in abandoned oil and gas for a 10% limited partnership interest in Dynamic Offshore Resources.
This was done to simplify the structure of our holdings.
The value of our investment in the larger entities is essentially the same as the value of our equity ownership was in the 2 smaller entities.
As a result we expect the same earnings contributions and proposition is essentially unchanged.
We will continue to account for this holding using the equity notes.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the first quarter the face value of our debt due to the discount was approximately $869 million down from $888 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
On our last earnings call we mentioned that we would most likely go to the debt market to essentially refinance our convertible debt which became equitable [ph] and callable on December 15 2011.
Last week we raised $500 million of 6.375% senior notes which removes the refinancing risks associated with convertible notes.
With interest rates at or near historical lows we felt the timing is right in fact we believe our transaction represents one of the hardest [ph] ever for in an oilfield services high-yield offering.
As the result of the financing our interest expense will increase by approximately $22 million for the remainder of 2011 or about $0.18 per share which is the sole reason for the lower guidance that Dave provided.
This is a temporary increase as the double carried interest will go away once we redeem the convertible notes in December.
In fact we expect quarterly interest expense in 2012 to be in the range of $15 million.
We will use part of the proceed to pay down the revolver which is at 0 today.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the first quarter was 2.1 the same as at year end.
Debt-to-total capital was 40% as compared to 41% at the end of the year.
Our days and sales outstanding which is a primary focus of our working capital management program was 79 days at the end of the first quarter as compared with 90 days at year-end.
Capital expenditures during the first quarter were $108.6 million.
We spent $41.1 million in the Drilling Products and Services segment primarily for drill pipe and specialty tubulars on land and international and $66.8 million in the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment including $22.7 million for ongoing construction of the Compact Semi-Submersible.
From a modeling perspective in the second quarter we think you should model the G&amp;A in the range of $89 million to $92 million and for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $63 million to $66 million.
We had anticipated 36% effective income tax rate in the second quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave for closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Robert.
We are beginning to see signs of life in what has been a beleaguered Gulf of Mexico market.
The pace of deepwater drilling permits has been good during the past month.
However I'm sticking to my guns for now and reaffirming that we should expect about 15 deepwater rigs drilling oil and gas wells by the end of 2011.
Seasonally we are entering a historically strong 3-year for activity and work over Intervention and Decommissioning business.
In addition our Completions business will also benefit from additional activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
The subsea construction market is looking better than we have seen in the past year.
We are not anticipating a total recovery in Hallin Marine's business until 2012 but I would not be surprised to witness some improvement before the end of 2011.
We are still very positive about continued growth during 2011 and beyond.
Our focus in the U.S.
land markets particularly in the Bakken Marcellus and Eagle Ford has been timely.
With the continued emphasis from our customers to exploit oil and liquids-rich gas reservoirs I expect the land rig count to continue to migrate higher during the course of the year with an even greater emphasis on horizontal completion.
Our areas of capital investment focus including coiled tubing premium drill pipe and pressure control rentals will all benefit from this continued improvement in the market.
The labor market in the U.S.
is very competitive.
We are very fortunate to have attracted the personnel that we need for our labor-intensive product lines in the U.S.
While the low fixed costs associated with the Drilling Products and Service business allows us to grow our revenue base without demanding significantly more personnel from an already tight labor pool and many of our focus basis [ph].
We've also been fortunate in having placed our new equipment orders early enough last year that we are receiving the bulk of our new revenue generating assets on time on schedule.
I expect that robust oil prices and an ongoing bright demand forecast will support very strong growth in the international markets.
I believe that the markets we have selected for building out our multi-product line operations will deliver growth this year and for many years to come.
In addition to Brazil and Australia we will be speaking to you in the coming months about new additions to this international growth network.
Demand is certainly stout for a new competitor and I am very confident that we have selected the right local managers to create opportunities for Superior.
That ends our prepared comments.
We'll turn the call back over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will be from the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Dave as you think about or as you talked about your international expansion over the next couple of years you've highlighted certainly Brazil and then Australia is next -- I know a lot of the CapEx or the international CapEx for this year is going into Brazil.
Could you possibly elaborate on how the ramp-up in your business specifically is going in Brazil? And then secondarily how we should think about capital as it flows into Australia? Sure James.
Things are going very well on the expansion in Brazil.
I was down there about 3 or 4 weeks ago.
I think I've mentioned to you in the past that we've got a significant facility under construction there which is progressing.
That facility is in Macaé.
It is at least part of our overall capital spend plan for Brazil this year.
But the bulk of our spending there will go towards additional assets on the rental side of the business.
Our management team there is working very hard to gain access to some service contracts which I hope to be able to talk to you more about that success as the year progresses.
One thing that you see in Brazil is just extreme activity build up coming from Petrobras.
I believe they are now targeted to be at 70 deepwater rigs working just with Petrobras by the end of 2012.
And so there's quite a bit of tightness overall from a supply standpoint in the market.
I know that as I travel around Macaé we're not only the big facility that's under construction down there.
So clearly a lot of demand.
Our focus from a CapEx standpoint in Brazil will be on rentals for the most part this year but I do expect that we'll see some services opportunities to develop for us from a contracted standpoint with Petrobras before the end of 2011.
And what I've tried to do is to ensure that we have capital available to take advantage of those contract opportunities that come up.
Australia also gaining some CapEx during the course of the year from a rental standpoint.
We're probably 6 months behind in Australia where we are today in Brazil.
So as the year goes on I think there our specific capital demand requirements will firm up.
And once again we've established as part of our capital budget a significant amount for Australia as their opportunities develop.
And Dave you hired a country manager for Australia at this point? Yes.
Our country manager came on board January 1st.
That follows the addition of our Brazil manager which was I think in August of 2010.
Okay.
And then just an unrelated follow-up here with the Gulf of Mexico ramping back up I think a lot of these drill pipe had been consumed more on land here in recent quarters.
I know you've put in orders for additional drill pipe but is there a potential that we could see a short squeeze on kind of equipment and some limiting factors to rigs going back to work as the result of that? If I'm right about 15 rigs drilling for oil and gas in the deepwater arena by the end of December I don't think we're going to see a squeeze.
There'd be a squeeze if that pace of activity really accelerated.
And the assets that we transferred out from the deepwater arena -- we transferred out everything that we could back in June of last year.
But as a percentage of our total assets in the deepwater Rental business it's relatively small 25% may be the most.
And so we still have capacity in that business and we did it -- we put together the capital budget and particularly the budget related to drill pipe.
Better recognition that there may be some point later in the year where we need to spend some money on pipe for deepwater drilling.
And so that was part of our plan but overall the pipe that we're adding to the businesses this year the overwhelming majority of that is going to the U.S.
land market and to the international markets.
And our next question will be from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Dave when I think about if I was going to take the overrun of the Gulf of Mexico deepwater rig count this year and assuming there were 20 rigs active rate can you give me a sense as to how the margin progression looks in Subsea and Well Enhancement from this point? I think you guys did about 8% EBIT margins in Q1.
You've got a lot of different things going on.
You've got Hallin utilization picking back up.
You've got the Gulf picking back up.
Can you help me out with how the balance of the year looks from a margin perspective in that segment? Yes.
So I mean first off on the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment it's really not significantly impacted by deepwater activity.
Our deepwater -- our benefit from the additional deepwater rigs you really witness in the Drilling Products and Services segment.
So just to clarify that.
You really don't see deepwater impact at Subsea and Well Enhancement.
We are expecting that Subsea and Well Enhancement segment to improve during Q2 and really I think the best way to think about this is if you go back and look at where we were in Q4 and consider that that's probably a reasonable starting point for where we'll be in Q2 that's kind of the way we look at things.
As of Q1 being impacted seasonally is a result of the typical weather conditions that we see in Q1 people not wanting to take on optional work in the Gulf of Mexico and that's a lot of what we do in that segment the Gulf is optional work.
Instead they use better weather windows for that work and that really started in April this year.
So if you think of [indiscernible] in Q2 as being similar from a baseline standpoint in that segment that's a good starting point.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about the change in permitting requirements for P&amp;A and decommissioning given the other issues that the BOEM is dealing with on the rig permitting side and whether that's going to impact the recovery in those businesses? Well I mean from a permitting standpoint the pace is just in general been slow.
There were some additional requirements that were put in place back in the summer of last year relative to BOP and BOP certification.
That does apply to some of those activities but the pace has just been slow.
I think the only area where I've heard of people being a bit slow in achieving permits from BOEM that I'd say might be a new risk that's out there is related to this Marine Mammals Act that's concerned about issues with explosives related to decommissioning.
So yes that's really kind of the only new issue that I've seen out in recent months related to the permit activities in these areas.
What I'll tell you is the pace has just been slow.
[indiscernible] a lot longer for the operators to get these things through BOEM.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then finally I think there was a milestone on the receivable from BP on the last platform that you guys got the permit to get cut lags you would get paid has that happened yet? Well what we're waiting on is reefing permit.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
So in terms of the reefing permit has that been granted yet? It's not been granted yet.
You'll know when it gets granted because the receivable from BP will be following shortly behind that.
But that's been a category in general a permit that really were slow prior to the moratorium and have been very slow since.
And I know I'm speaking to some other players in the industry not necessarily competitors but customers that are also waiting for reefing permits for some of their activities they've all been slow.
Our conversations with the Bureau have been very positive as far as achieving that permit.
At this point we have no reason to believe we won't.
It's just been slow coming.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay that does it for me.
And our next question will be from the line of Bill Sanchez from Howard Weil Incorporated.
A question for you you touched a little bit on CapEx spend here and I guess we've noted a significant amount of CapEx this year is going into domestic operations.
You clearly have identified Brazil and Australia as 2 important areas.
I'm just curious given the senior note raise we did you guys getting another $100 million I guess more than what you initially had gone to market with was there any thought of -- especially on the rental tool side maybe accelerating some of the international spending here as opposed to just paying down the revolver? I know the lead times to getting rental tools are pretty quick here or pretty short I should say.
Any thoughts there? At this point I'd have to say no.
I think I would prefer to stay within operating cash from an organic growth standpoint.
And when we went to market we were extremely pleased last week with the response we saw to our debt offering and I'm pleased with the overall rate and in general the overall terms that we received as a result of that note.
We decided to upsize it just to give us a little bit of running room if there are any small kind of tuck-in acquisitions that may be available to us out there that would help to accelerate this geographic expansion plan we have some of this select international markets as well as U.S.
land.
I wouldn't expect though that you'd see us increase what we have in place today for the 2011 capital spend program.
Okay.
And I guess just as a follow up on the subsea side I guess as we think about typically seasonally second and third quarter being your strongest quarters but would you like -- you told us you know not so long ago about how painful the permitting process has been and certainly with the idle iron requirements out there -- do we expect that as we look at guidance and think about subsea that maybe fourth quarter perhaps is more resilient than what typically we would see as we kind of just think about the progression here and you don't see maybe the seasonal drop off because you guys just look to stay very active here over the balance of the year or get busier? Yes well I mean I think just to -- let me see if I can address your point this way.
We are always busy with this type of work in the second and third quarter.
It typically falls off some in the fourth quarter as we enter into that more difficult weather wind up.
What I can tell you is we'll be busy with that work in the second quarter and we'll be busy with it in the third quarter.
I think everyone's been waiting for a potential uptick in this idle iron type business which if we see that uptick in 2011 it'll be in the fourth quarter because Q2 and Q3 are always busy.
We haven't necessarily added a bunch of capacity in that business and we're going to be busy in Q2 and Q3 this year but I don't think it has anything to do with an idle iron initiative.
It's just due to the fact that that is typically the weather window that our customers like to work in.
So I know there is anticipation about uptick in this idle iron business.
Visibility on it at this moment in time is very poor.
I think that visibility will begin to improve as we get out later in Q3 and start to see what the book of business is going to look like in Q4.
And if it's an increase that's when we'll see it.
And if we see that increase in Q4 then it'll spill over into Q1 of 2012 as well.
And our next question will be from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Dave just maybe a couple of big picture bottom line questions.
I know you're sticking to your 15 rigs deepwater but recall the biggest delta and the guidance for this year was going to be how activity proceeded in the Gulf.
And kind of curious now that we're a quarter into this -- actually a quarter or a month and you've seen permitting activity has your -- are you leaning in one direction or the other at this point from the midpoint of the range just kind of based on what you're seeing so far or are you still kind of...
It's too early to call at this point.
I mean we certainly have been encouraged by the permits that have come through.
But you will recall what happened when they began -- when BOEM began issuing permits for shelf drilling is we saw a kind of a rapid pace and then it began to trail off a bit.
My concern is the same -- same thing is going to happen here with the deepwater.
And so I need to see it happen in the marketplace a little bit more before I'm willing to feel like that upper end of the guidance range is where we want to be.
So I'm sticking to my guns for 15 rigs.
I hope to be wrong about that.
I hope when we speak again next quarter on this call that I can talk about that pace of permits continuing to be good and maybe looking at increasing that end of December rig count estimate that I have out there but I'm just not ready to call it yet.
Inc.</strong> It makes sense.
And as I think about CapEx for this year obviously big numbers and you've detailed where all that's going.
Maybe a little timing of that obviously 1Q still pretty early and as this capital flows into equipment during the course of the year and we think about how that translates into 2012 it seems like given your kind of 1Q actual 2Q guidance relatively speaking a lot of the earnings are back half weighted this year which kind of makes sense.
And I think it seems like capital allocation or divest -- being deployed is going to be a little more back half weighted which obviously portends good things for '12.
Is that -- am I reading that right? Well just a couple of corrections to that.
Our capital budget is actually front-half of the year loaded about 60% of the overall spend will take place before the end of June.
And this was done in order to take advantage of having those assets down the field during the second half of the year.
So clearly you get a full-year benefit from the spend here in 2012 but 60% of it coming in the first quarter is a good benchmark for that.
If you look at the coiled tubing fleet that we are putting out into the field this year: A total of 8 units 7 of those units are delivered before the end of Q2; 2 of them have been delivered already; 5 of them has come into the field during the second quarter.
And so by the time you get to the July 1st we've got 7 additional coiled tubing units out of 8 that are already in place.
Drill pipes spend is a little more evenly spaced during the course of the year but I already said overall of $500 million 60% is coming in as a spend before the end of June.
So that is part of the reason why we feel like the second half of the year from an earnings growth standpoint look very strong and need to feel that way.
I'll tell you what I really feel like we did an excellent job here in the second half of last year planning out some of what we believe those capital spend items would be in.
And I made a comment during our prepared comments that I've been very pleased with the fact that our delivery schedule for the big assets that we're bringing in is right on target.
Inc.</strong> That's very good color.
And then just one little follow-up liftboats continue to kind of selloff some of the low-end of the fleet is that something you expect to continue? Yes.
I think that's been a strategy of the company since before I came on board and it's one that we'll continue to pursue.
We understand what customers are looking for in a marketplace.
We know that the strategy of this company being involved in the liftboat business is largely related to our ability to carry out other types of equipment and that's much more -- that's something we have much better opportunity to do with the bigger boats than the smaller boats.
And our next question will be from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> Dave Bullwinkle could you kind of update us on the status out there either in terms of or both in terms of sort of the equity production levels your trending towards? And I guess the P&amp;A schedule there has bounced around a little any change to what you're contemplating on that side? Well I don't know that it's changed significantly from what we talked about last quarter from a production standpoint with the guys there's Dinamic and [ph] out there in some of the intervention activities that have taken place.
We did not complete any P&amp;As with Bullwinkle in the first quarter but we didn't plan on starting to carry out any P&amp;As in the first quarter.
They get one or 2 in in the second quarter but we're not planning on it at this point.
What we've told you guys in guidance last quarter was we expect the P&amp;A at Bullwinkle this year to be carried out the second half of the year.
There's quite a bit of intervention work that's going on on the structure it has been since Q1 and carrying it out in Q2.
So we're not planning to do any P&amp;As.
We could wind up sneaking one in before the end of Q2 but it's not part of our guidance at this point yet.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay great.
And then on the Hallin side what's your current level of visibility into work programs? I know the outlook's improving there but it's the work programs for maybe the 2 new built Hallin assets in the third and the fourth quarters? Well okay so visibility on near-term projects is quite good.
You know you got to keep in mind that in this business most of the contracts tend to be shorter-term contracts.
A long-term contract for these vessels is 3 weeks.
So your visibility quarters from now is generally based on what you see as tender backlog.
And what I've noticed in that business over the course of last several months is that the backlog for tenders 3 months even 6 months out seems to be building which it gives me some reasons to believe that we're going to see a bit more robust market going forward with the Hallin Marine boats.
I'd tell you that the second quarter book of business looks very good.
We were extremely busy with the boats from Hallin in the fourth quarter of 2010.
They were very slow in the first quarter of 2011 and I think that the second quarter is going to look a lot more like the fourth quarter did.
And that's really just based on well obviously the work we have going on at the moment as well as what I see out there in May and June from a tendering activity standpoint.
So it's started to gives me reasons to be feel somewhat encouraged about the Hallin business.
I'm not ready to go out there and call it a recovery just yet.
Certainly our revenue and profitability numbers from last quarter wouldn't cause me to do that.
But you know just as  I get a feel for it and talk to the management team over there about what their activity looks like for the second half of 2011 I'm feeling a bit better about it.
We said when the Hallin business kind of started heading -- turning south last year that we thought this construction market in the Eastern Hemisphere would be a bit soft for 12 to 18 months.
That kind of takes us out to 2012 before we really begin to experience any significant recovery.
And I still feel like that's an accurate call.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay great.
And then one last one just as a point of clarity your comments on the fourth quarter as a baseline I'm right to read those as pretty specific to Subsea and Well Enhancement correct? I mean it's the majority of the overall business but that was the focus of that comment not...
That's exactly right.
I mean the other 2 segments a little bit different particularly from a Drilling Products and Services standpoint -- I mean as we add assets as we see some deepwater rigs go back to work certainly we expect the second quarter of 2011 in Drilling Products and Services to be better than what we saw in the fourth quarter.
And our next question will be from the line of John Daniel from Simmons &amp; Company.
Dave just some big picture questions really.
You and others have a lot equipment that's going to be delivered this year and it seems like the number one problem we hear from service companies is the labor issue.
And my question is should we expect as we go forward delays in deployment of new assets perhaps due to the inability to man the equipment? I have 0 expectation that we will see a delay in putting those assets to work as a result of labor.
What I've witnessed from our more service-intensive business in the U.S.
which is really for us is coiled tubing -- what I witnessed from those guys is they have been very successful on attracting the people that we need in order to man that new equipment that's coming out.
And really John I think part of the advantage we have here is that we don't have a whole bunch of these service-intensive businesses that exist in the land market in the U.S.
And so when we've got that help wanted sign posted on the door outside in Odessa Texas a guy applies and passes his drug screening and is going to go to work in coiled tubing.
And I'd have to make a choice does he go to coiled tubing or does he go to some other service-intensive product line -- that's what we attract them for and that's what we hire them for.
I think the other side of that benefit is on the rental side of the business we're low fixed cost we're not extremely variable from a headcount standpoint as our business grows.
So we don't necessarily need very many people.
And I think that that's clearly a benefit that we are experiencing.
I certainly hear in the industry and we witnessed first-hand how tight the labor markets are in some of the very active shale basins as well as just some traditional basins out there.
I was in Midland a few weeks ago in West Texas in one of those areas -- Permian Basin labor is very tight.
We're just -- I think we're fortunate that we only have a limited number of this service and businesses and so we have been successful on attracting people that we need.
Okay.
A couple of quick ones.
The coil tubing units the 8 that you've got on order are those backed by contracts or there's more or less spot exposure? I would not characterize what we're getting is necessarily contracts.
There are certainly commitments -- we have customers that are waiting for each one of those units and they have talked to us about the idea as soon as the units are delivered they're ready to take them right away.
But the U.S.
land market overall is a market that is -- your market share your access to customers your access to work is based on how you did on the last job.
So an execution is based on safely executing it.
So as long as you're out in the field with a customer and you are executing and doing it in a safe way and the demand is high enough they're going to send you out to the next location.
All right fair.
Last one just sort of using your crystal ball if you will.
As you think about the international expansion -- and you noted even when you are down in Brazil lots of people building facilities things like that how do we think about the pricing for new entrants going in there and just the margin expectations relative to your existing businesses? Well what we've started with in Brazil has been rentals.
And certainly the margins that we see in the Rental business there I think are similar to what we see in the Rental business in the U.S.
branches.
Probably at this point not as strong as margins that we realized from the deepwater Rental Tool business but I expect as gain additional shares we have more assets and overall critical mass in the revenue side of the business in Brazil that we'll be migrating upwards from a market standpoint.
It's just -- it's once again it's that low fixed-cost business and so that incremental -- that incremental bit of revenue that you generate out of this business is going to come at a higher profit point.
Pricing there -- listen pricing in Brazil is competitive.
It always has been competitive.
That's what Petrobras demands.
But -- and so I'm not thinking of that business I'm thinking where we're going to see a lot of price migration upward price migration as we go forward.
But I think the margins that we can expect to generate there on the rental side as well as what we wind up doing on the service side are going to be -- is going to be good and strong.
And I know that's what we ought to expect out of a market like Brazil and I haven't see anything that would cause me to think otherwise at this point.
Okay alright.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will be from the line of William Conroy with Pritchard Capital.
LLC</strong> Dave a couple of questions for you.
One is in your prepared remarks you called out the Bakken the Marcellus and the Eagle Ford as areas -- maybe a particular focus in the U.S.
land side.
As you've been answering questions a couple of times you brought up the Permian.
Are we going to hear the Permian as one of those focused areas in the near future? Yes I think that you will.
We already have a presence in the Permian basin but I think that as I speak to our managers of those businesses that there is additional demand in what we do in the Permian basin and we're going to try and find some opportunities to take advantage of that.
I think the big question in the Permian basin as far as activity goes is I think there is a tremendous demand for additional rigs and additional activity in the Permian basin.
There'll be bumping up against the overall labor situation I think soon.
Not unlike what we see in North Dakota and that's first time in my career that I've witnessed it to that point in the Permian basin.
But the labor market's tight out there.
I don't think for what we do to that tight labor market is going to restrict our ability to grow in the Permian but it may be for some others.
LLC</strong> Is it fair to say that if it's restricted other activity that could have a spillover effect to you even though you're not necessarily staff-constrained? Well it could.
I mean if there were an appetite for another 25% or 30% drilling rigs in the Permian basin but drilling contractors or whoever couldn't find the people who will man those assets then it would prevent the market from growing to where our customers would like to see it go.
LLC</strong> And then just change gears on you a bit in the Rental business how should we think about steel and specifically tubular prices? And how do those impact your tubular Rentals business? So the way to think about that is as we see commodity prices increase in steel -- and those are prices that historically we've been able to pass on to our customers when we see the tube price increase -- as for new pipe or old pipe.
LLC</strong> Great that does it for me.
Our next question will be from the line of Geoff Kieburtz with Weeden.
LP</strong> This is Chris Enright in for Jeff.
Can you speak a little bit towards the international progress with respect to the Sand Control business? Yes sure.
So I think I mentioned in the past that we acquired these assets from Baker Hughes back in August that we would be spending time during 2011 in trying to gain exposure for that product line into the international markets.
And have not tried to build an expectation that there would be a lot of international revenue during 2011.
That's still my expectation.
However as I speak to the group there they are getting some traction in some of the international markets and I hope to be able to report to you sometime this year about some successes that we've had and maybe actually to some revenue generation that we have in the international market.
I'm not quite ready to call it yet but I'm optimistic that we'll see some international revenue generated in 2011 associated with that product line.
And when I speak of that product line just to be specific we are talking about the tools the completion tools.
LP</strong> Great.
In your guidance is there any contribution baked in from the Gulf of Mexico of stimulation vessels? There's not anything baked in that would be different from what we experienced in Q4.
So when we -- that business fits into the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment.
And I think what I said about those vessels is kind of consistent with the comment I made in general about drawing comparisons between Q4 2010 and Q2 2011.
And there's not really any substantial change in those vessels performance over the timeframe.
LP</strong> Okay.
And just to remind me they didn't do much in the fourth quarter is that correct? That's correct.
They didn't do much.
LP</strong> Great that's it for me.
And at this time I'm showing no further questions.
I'd like to turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well we certainly appreciate all of you joining us and we'll speak to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
If you would like to listen to the replay of today's conference please dial (303)590-3030 and use the access code 4432547.
ACT would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today July 28 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business management’s plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and EBITDA on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Last night we reported record quarterly revenue of $510.8 million EBITDA of $149.1 million and net income of $48.1 million or $0.59 per diluted share.
Without question our second quarter results were exceptional and exceeded our expectations.
There were several positive factors during the period as we had strong performance across multiple product lines and geographic areas.
While the performance was broad-based there were several major drivers that I would like to highlight.
First U.S.
land revenue advanced to nearly $200 million in the second quarter and represented 39% of total revenue.
That is an 11% increase in sequential growth compared to a 6% increase in rig count.
Our tactical decisions to prioritize the U.S.
land market from an asset allocation and capital spending standpoint is paying off well in a market that we believe continues to offer great opportunities for further growth.
More than 40% of our overall 2011 CapEx is being directed to the U.S.
land market.
We have now placed all 8 of our 2011 coiled tubing unit additions in service.
We have delivered 50% of our new drill pipe and are now waiting delivery of pressure control equipment perforating-related assets and other rental assets to service the very high demand that we are experiencing in the U.S.
Our success in the U.S.
land market was complemented by our success in the International business during Q2.
During the quarter we recorded a record $138 million in revenue or 27% of our total revenue.
This represents a 33% increase from Q1 driven by our Subsea and Well Enhancement segment.
We experienced the expected seasonal rebound in Southeast Asia and our Hallin Marine business continues to make tremendous progress in what has been a difficult market for the past 5 quarters.
During the quarter we successfully completed a 2-well subsea P&amp;A project in Indonesia.
This very comprehensive project incorporated the use of one of our subsea support vessels our lubricator system and our downhole expertise and project management and it was executed flawlessly.
In addition overall demand for intervention services is increasing and was evidenced during the quarter by higher snubbing revenue in Australia and the start of a new snubbing project in Peru.
As expected the Gulf of Mexico business realized the normal seasonal improvement from Q1.
Revenue increased 32% sequentially as we benefited from an uptick in the shallow water for intervention and end-of-life services and a modest resumption of deepwater drilling which had a positive impact on our completion services and downhole drilling products.
Our market share for downhole drilling tools in the deepwater is consistent with where it was prior to the Macondo oil spill when we had assets on 31 of the 33 rigs working.
Finally we experienced margin improvement at Hallin Marine and completion services which drove some of the high incremental margins we experienced in the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment.
At Hallin Marine we had a significant improvement in subsea vessel activity and utilization.
Hallin got past the breakeven point and we believe they are on their way to achieving higher levels of profitability during the second half of the year.
For completion services it was really a matter of time as this product line is highly levered to the Gulf of Mexico market.
Even the modest activity gains that we realized in the Gulf during Q2 provided higher utilization for our tools and stimulation services as we executed on several new projects during the quarter.
There are more good things happening within our completion tools business that I will discuss a little later in the call.
In summary our outstanding performance was due to the priority that we placed in growing our presence in the robust U.S.
land market the early stage recovery in the Gulf of Mexico market and the turnaround in the subsea market that helped drive international growth.
Finally the high incremental margins were due in part to the turnaround at Hallin Marine and completion services.
Robert will now walk you through some of the financial detail and then I will discuss our guidance and outlook for the remainder of the year.
With that I'll turn the call over to Robert.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons for the first quarter of 2011.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment revenue was $336 million and income from operations was $51 million which represents sequential increases of 28% and 363% respectively.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 32% to $111 million with some of the main increases coming from completion services and intervention services such as coiled tubing wireline and snubbing.
International revenue was $94 million which represents an increase of 52%.
We've spent much higher utilization for vessels performing subsea inspection repair and maintenance work.
In addition we had large increases in pressure control-related projects and snubbing services.
U.S.
land revenue increased 13% to $131 million.
Our coiled tubing business grew another 10% in the quarter.
We also experienced increases in pressure control services wire line and remedial pumping.
Overall the segment had an incremental operating margin of 54% due to the strong revenue increases for these product lines many of which are primarily fixed cost in nature.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $149 million and income from operations was $30 million which represents a 16% sequential increase in revenue and a 37% sequential increase in income from operations.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 53% to $39 million due to an increase in rentals of drill pipe and stabilization equipment as the market experienced higher drilling and completion activity in both the shallow and deepwater areas.
U.S.
land revenue increased 7% to $68 million as a result of our increased demand for accommodations in bottom-hole assembly.
Revenue from the international markets increased 7% sequentially to $42 million primarily to increased rentals of stabilization equipment in Brazil and premium drill pipe and accessories in Colombia.
Our operating margin increased almost 20% from 17% in the first quarter.
Our gross profit margin was slightly lower due to revenue mix primarily related to the sale of drill pipe that was damaged during the quarter.
We expect the gross profit margin to improve in the third quarter.
In the Marine segment revenue increased 8% to $26 million while we essentially broke even when excluding the $5.9 million gain on sale of 4 liftboats.
Liftboat utilization increased to 70% from 57% in the first quarter of 2011.
However this was offset by larger-than-expected U.S.
Coast Guard inspection and repair and maintenance expenses that should not peak in the third quarter.
We sold 2 liftboats from our 145 fleet a 160-foot vessel and a 200-foot liftboat.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the second quarter the face value of our debt exclusive of discount was approximately $1.2 billion which will reduce to about $800 million at year end when we pay off the convertible debt.
As you may recall in April we raised $500 million of 6 3/8% senior notes which removed the refinancing risk associated with convertible notes which can be put and called in December this year.
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the second quarter was 1.7x as compared to 1.9x at the end of the first quarter.
Net debt to total capital was 37% as compared to 38% at the end of the first quarter.
Our days and sales outstanding which is a primary focus of our working capital management program was 77 days at the end of the second quarter as compared to 79 days at the end of the first quarter and 90 days at the end of 2010.
Capital expenditures during the second quarter were $108 million.
We spent $55 million in the Drilling Products and Services segment and $52 million in the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment.
Year-to-date our capital expenditures have been $217 million.
While this amount is a bit lower than expected for June 30 we still anticipate that our CapEx for 2011 will be in the range of $500 million.
From a modeling perspective in the third quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $90 million to $93 million.
And for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $66 million to $68 million.
Also we anticipate our interest expense to be in the range of about $21 million.
We also anticipate a 36% effective income tax rate in the third quarter.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the remainder of the year.
Thank you Robert.
It is clear to me that we have picked the right moment in time to have a record capital spend at Superior Energy Services.
Our management team and employees have done a tremendous job of putting that capital to work for you.
And our execution during the second quarter gives us the confidence to increase our earnings guidance for the year to a range of $1.96 to $2.16 which implies a second half range of $1.25 to $1.45 per share.
The guidance reflects operational earnings which is exclusive of gains and losses.
The composition and magnitude of our second quarter outperformance is one of the reasons why we felt we could increase our guidance.
We believe the second quarter exit rate which reflects strong utilization of existing assets across most product lines will be enhanced by our first half capital addition and new assets that are entering the market in the coming weeks.
We underspent our CapEx during the first half of the year due to delivery delays for pressure control equipment perforating-related assets and accessory equipment.
In addition we are slightly behind schedule in capital spend related to several of our facility expansions budgeted for 2011.
Where possible we have worked around delays by utilizing existing assets or renting equipment.
We did experience on-time deliveries for many of our larger asset purchases allocated for the U.S.
market especially in the areas of coiled tubing and premium drill pipe.
We are expecting our CapEx plan to catch up rapidly with many of the items I mentioned being delivered early this quarter.
Our geographic market outlook overall is quite bullish.
We think the U.S.
land market is still underserved and we believe horizontal drilling will remain robust which should continue to drive demand for our downhole drilling tools service rentals and intervention services.
We continue to experience high utilization levels for coiled tubing and drilling products that are leveraged to the demands of horizontal well bore geometry.
Activity in the shallow water Gulf of Mexico for intervention and end-of-life services should remain seasonally strong.
In the deepwater Gulf we've maintained our belief that there will be 15 drilling rigs drilling for oil and gas added to the market by the end of the year.
The number of rigs working during the second quarter would suggest that we are slightly ahead of that pace.
However the number of new permits issued has slowed recently.
So we'll stick with our original guidance in that market.
Internationally we will continue to grow although it will be difficult to duplicate the 33% quarterly revenue growth rate that we achieved in the second quarter.
Nonetheless I expect subsidy vessel activity and demand for intervention services and drilling tools to continue at a healthy clip.
Our subsea vessels are working or will soon be working in Australia Malaysia and Indonesia.
Demand for premium drill pipe is increasing in Africa and Latin America and we've also begun a 4-well subsea P&amp;A project in the Red Sea that should be completed early in the fourth quarter.
In terms of strategy execution we have made great strides in expanding our sand control completion tools business into international markets.
In fact the pace of expansion has been much quicker than we originally forecasted which I think will benefit us later this year and beyond.
We've been awarded almost $20 million in international contracts for work to be completed during the remainder of 2011 and 2012.
That's well ahead of pace.
In Brazil we were recently awarded a sand control screen order which will be delivered during 2011.
In addition Superior has been selected to provide the first Multi-Zone Single Trip sand control system in Brazil.
This award is evidence of the progress that Superior has made in establishing an industry-leading position in the area of Multi-Zone Single Trip sand control applications.
We've also been awarded contracts for sand control tools and installation in Nigeria and contracts for Packers and gravel pack installation in Equatorial Guinea.
In addition to our completions business we are finding success in marketing our oil spill containment technology to international customers in several markets.
We have made the most progress with North Sea customers as we signed up up to 12 subscribers we required to make the venture economically feasible.
Our emergency response approach involves multiple functions and disciplines including the debris removal dispersion injection and well containment and capping equipment to handle larger spills.
Our position as a leader in pressure control markets makes us uniquely qualified to market this solution on a global basis.
The value in establishing the Superior brand in the international markets through our high-technology product line and innovative solution exceeds the financial contribution of these awards.
It serves as a testament to our growing reputation worldwide and our ability to penetrate multiple geographic markets with our diversified portfolio of products and services.
To summarize our outlook we are exiting the second quarter with strong utilization and favorable market environments that should lead to additional work for assets in place and a rapid absorption of new equipment as it gets delivered.
The market environment coupled with our team's ability to execute give us comfort that the short-term guidance is achievable.
And longer term we continue to successfully execute our geographic expansion plan and establish our brand in new markets.
And with that we'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> Dave a question on Subsea and Well Enhancement.
The gross margin performance in Q2 was quite strong.
Looking forward you referenced that Hallin margins could continue to improve over the second half of the year I believe.
I think you're doing some Bullwinkle P&amp;As which should be pretty high margin.
I guess the question is do you think there is room to push that gross margin above that 42%? Or is that a little bit of a high watermark because of 1 or 2 high-margin jobs you might have had going on in Q2? I don't know that the margins were driven necessarily by 1 or 2 high-margin jobs.
I think as much as anything what we saw really drive margins in the segment was a return to marginal profitability for both the completion services and Hallin Marine businesses.
And so these are businesses that as you know and as we've talked about have been a bit of a drag on us that we expected to return to profitable levels and that's really what we've done.
Overall in that segment I would not suggest that you try and drag that margin up by some more -- much higher than where we were in Q2.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay and then you referenced Hallin.
On the international side within Subsea you are about plus $35 million I believe in revenue.
Can you give me -- is it -- sequentially is it fair to split that half Hallin half non-Hallin some of the international onshore stuff.
Is that about the right split? I'm not sure if that's the right split or not.
I mean Hallin's revenues were certainly up from the first quarter which as we described in the last quarter's conference call Hallin Marine's utilization in Q1 was quite low and the Southeast Asian market was poor.
And really what Hallin Marine did from a revenue standpoint was about recover to levels that we experienced during the fourth quarter of last year.
And utilization was fairly similar with what we experienced in the fourth quarter last year.
It's contribution from Hallin Marine.
It's contribution from completion services.
It's a contribution from a land standpoint.
It's contribution from our well control and it's really across the board Dan.
L.L.C.</strong> Good to hear.
And then maybe just a last question.
Looking at the next couple of quarters and the higher guidance range Dave I was wondering if you could address maybe how you're contemplating 2 factors in the guidance.
Number one is sort of how should we think about traditional seasonality that your business sees in Q4 versus the fact that you have a lot more capital deployed? In other words do you think Q4 EPS should be higher than Q3? And then more near-term in Q3 and I guess the beginning of Q4 what about Gulf of Mexico weather risk? Yes so that was a number of questions.
Let me start with kind of earnings flow.
I mean we do expect as we get out to the end of Q4 that we'll begin to experience some of the normal seasonal slowdown in the Gulf of Mexico.
Last year the way that it impacted us was beginning late November and it was -- there was a real impact in the month of December.
A lot just depends on weather patterns.
It's kind of hard to call.
But I think from a forecasting standpoint we would see that slowdown which really for us slows down on the offshore intervention business as well as the P&amp;A decommissioning business end-of-life services kind of towards the end of the fourth quarter.
And so we think earnings in the fourth quarter -- think of that being kind of flat with where they'll be in Q3 generally.
And I see you'll have some new equipment that's going out that pulls things up and you got the seasonal slowdown in the Gulf that kind of pulls things down.
So overall fairly similar from Q3 to Q4.
Let's see.
The other part of that question was weather in general.
So really Q3 from a risk standpoint is probably a bigger risk just in the way of tropical storms and hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
We think what we've done within the guidance range is kind of give a range that would allow for the types of disruptions that may occur.
It's impossible to predict these things as you well know.
So we don't build into our earnings guidance really a significant long-term shutdown in the Gulf of Mexico.
Instead I think what we build in are those minor interruptions such as the one we're having right now.
In the Western Gulf of Mexico we've got a few liftboats that are sitting at the dock waiting for this tropical storm to pass through over the weekend and that's kind of normal this time of the year.
I think our guidance range covers that.
Our next question comes from the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Dave I think when you joined Superior you were I guess somewhat less interested in the U.S.
land market.
And that's certainly changed and you've shift a lot of capital to this land business and of course the consensus views on land has obviously changed as well.
Two questions I guess around that One where do you think we are in the U.S.
land cycle at this point? And then number two would you be interested in further acquisitions or acquisitions that were North American focused? Yes I mean -- I think you're right about my attitude changing regarding the U.S.
land market from where it was a year ago -- or actually 5 quarters ago.
I don't know that I'm unique from that standpoint.
I mean I do feel different about the U.S.
land market today.
I've seen the migration that our customers have made to more exposure to oil and liquids-rich away from natural gas.
It's a basin that historically at least through my career has been highly levered to natural gas and it's not today.
And it's taken us a couple of years to migrate to a rig count that is as levered as it is to oil.
But I mean I think that fundamental drive from our customers has changed my opinion I think probably a lot of people's opinion about the U.S.
land market.
If you follow the assumption that oil prices are going to remain in a range at least above $80 a barrel then there's really not a reason why we should begin to see oil-related or liquids-rich related drilling activity decline.
At the same time you've got a natural gas rig count which is 1 000 rigs off of its peak from September of 2008.
I don't know when natural gas prices will begin to rebound.
But somewhere out there over the next few years I think we'll see that.
That's going to put pressure on the marketplace to accommodate more natural gas drilling.
All that tells me that we're in a different type of cycle than we've seen in North America in the past.
And I think it would be a -- it's hard for me to envision that we're anywhere near the peak of that cycle.
In fact maybe more towards the midpoint if you want to think of it that way.
And so how does that relate to my investment appetite in the U.S.
land or North American market? It's pretty good.
We're fulfilling that with our capital spend budget this year.
I would expect in 2012 we have continued healthy additions of new assets into the U.S.
market.
And if the right opportunities come across for us to do acquisitions in the U.S.
land market I would certainly be in favor doing this.
Okay that's helpful.
On the international side you've made good progress obviously in Brazil in Australia and Southeast Asia.
When should we expect to hear about really a third region or a third market that you'll invest in? I think we'll be -- I think we'll probably be talking to you about that later this year.
And we've  got several markets that we are spending quite a bit of time in right now understanding and analyzing to ensure that we kind of put our focus on the right place.
A lot of it has to do with our ability and our confidence in putting together a local management team to lead our company's efforts in those new markets and that's a characteristic that certainly applied in Brazil and Australia.
It's one I feel very strongly about.
So we'll be adding some of those from a strategic standpoint and talking to you about them as the year goes on.
In the meantime we've had a number of projects begin to develop in the international markets that really aren't part of our strategy to build out multiservice line operations.
And I think we'll continue to see those.
An example of that is the snubbing project that started up in Peru during the course of the quarter.
It's not that we're going into Peru to intentionally build out a big multiservice line operation.
But those types of opportunities particularly in the area of intervention services I think will continue for us.
And the type of commodity price environment that we're in we certainly have international customers that are interested in going into their oil fields and enhancing production.
And that's right where these intervention services fit.
So I really in addition to the multiproduct line build outs that we're doing in Brazil Australia and we'll be doing in some other countries there are going to be other opportunities to take advantage of intervention.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Dave I think we all have kind of looked at the North American land stuff.
They're doing pretty well there but the surprise here certainly for us was how strong the Gulf was and you mentioned numerous different areas of the Gulf.
I want to get a little more color on those areas where the Gulf is improving and kind of get your thoughts on the sustainability that specifically the rental tools in deepwater you mentioned end-of-life.
The BJ stuff seems to be picking up as well.
Could you just give us a little more color on each of those things in the Gulf and how long you expect it to continue? Yes certainly.
I mean really I'll separate this response in a couple of different ways.
First off the intervention and end-of-life type work the P&amp;A and decommissioning of business which really what this business has been in the second quarter Marshall is they returned to the levels that we saw in kind of the fourth quarter of last year.
Q1 was very soft in those services.
We've talked about that last quarter.
We expected them to return to a stronger seasonality as a result of seasonality and they certainly did.
I don't think that we've actually and I know we have not really experienced significant increases year-over-year on the intervention side or on the plug and abandonment and decommissioning side of business.
This is normally when we're busy and we're busy now.
Inc.</strong> So the big move they've talked about last year or year before whatever it was where the BOE is going to get stricter with that doesn't seem to be pushing at least on a sustained basis meaningfully higher abandonments yet? That's absolutely correct.
And what I've said about this I think still holds true and that is I don't believe that we would -- I didn't believe that we would see increases during the second and third quarter that we're always busy during that period of time and we're busy now.
If we're busy with this type of work in late November and end of December when the weather window is not so good then I'll change my answer.
But for now we're not seeing it.
And I'll be kind of surprised if we do.
Then there's the drilling side of business and so we did begin to see a return of some of the deepwater rigs during the second quarter.
We didn't get the full benefit of that during the quarter.
I think we'll continue to see that deepwater rig count migrate upward.
The pace of permits is still slow.
I think it will continue to be slow but our forecast all along counted on 15 of those deepwater rigs being at work by the end of December.
And you heard me say I still kind of hold true to that.
I think that's where we'll be.
The completion tool business and completion services business in total did much better in the second quarter than the performance that we've seen from that group since the acquisition from Baker Hughes last year.
It was a bit surprising to us even how well that business recovered.
But our guys have done a good job I think of ensuring that the Gulf of Mexico customers knew who Superior was and knew the business that we were in now from a completion standpoint.
And as soon as that deepwater market begin to open up we were there to take advantage of it and the guys did a great job from that standpoint.
Inc.</strong> So it sounds like you're optimistic that continues as well? I don't think there's any reason to believe it won't.
It's a business -- it was still a low business level from a deepwater standpoint overall in Q2.
And I've heard some argue that while maybe the pace of permits slows things down -- well I don't know if it's going to slow down from the rig count we saw in Q2.
It's still a fairly minimal level and so if you take that as kind of the baseline going forward I think you'll argue that you'll get nothing but upside to it.
Inc.</strong> All right and also it sounds like I guess you're levering that internationally pretty well as well? Much faster than I thought we would.
When we did the acquisition last year I thought that we would be spending most of 2011 in kind of marketing activities related to international and really not seeing any substantial income from the completion services business internationally.
It turns out that we've been successful sooner than we thought we would be.
And that certainly is going to help us in the second half of the year.
We hadn't seen that.
That's not part of our Q2 results but you do begin to see it as a result of some of the contracts I mentioned in Q3 and Q4 and then that carries forward into 2012 for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoff Kieburtz with Weeden &amp; Co.
LP</strong> Dave you partially answered this question I think already in regards to the range of your guidance.
Being really -- taking into consideration Gulf of Mexico weather risk.
Is that -- did I understand that correctly? That's the primary reason for the $0.20 range in the second half earnings? Yes I think that's exactly right Geoff.
I mean we've built in a $0.20 range there.
If we had perfect weather in the Gulf of Mexico then we probably will lean more towards the high end of that but it's never a perfect weather in the Gulf of Mexico.
I think the lower end covers us for what we would consider to be the normal kinds of shutdowns that we have for weather disturbances that develop.
If we get something dramatically different from kind of a normal type of storm then who knows what could happen.
I mean sometimes these things blow through and you're shut down for 3 or 4 days.
Sometimes it blows through and you're shut down for 2 weeks.
It's impossible to predict and so we don't.
Instead I think what we've done is given a range here that covers us for the normal types of disturbances that we see in Q3.
LP</strong> I'm just trying to reconcile that with the other comment in regards to roughly speaking expecting the third quarter and fourth quarter earnings to be pretty close to each other but the third quarter is where the greater weather risk normally exists right? That's correct.
LP</strong> So I mean I'm not trying to split hairs too much but is it really most of that $0.20 range or uncertainty really lies in the third quarter? Do you see where I'm going with this? Yes I don't know that I would characterize it as most but I don't know maybe it is most.
Listen we didn't really look at it that way necessarily.
But certainly from a weather-risk standpoint Q3 represents bigger weather risk than what we see in Q4.
In Q4 we know we're going to have weather issues from the middle of November through the end of December.
I don't know if it helps you or not but I mean that's the way we looked at weather risk as we were thinking about this.
There are Q4 weather risks.
It's going to happen.
LP</strong> Are there any other major variables in regards to the range on that guidance? No.
LP</strong> Okay.
All right.
And your response to an earlier question in regards to Subsea and Well Enhancement margins.
Was that -- you kind of said don't expect it to go much higher.
Was that a long-term comment or just a short-term comment? I think that's more of a short-term comment.
I mean obviously we think what will happen that the 2 segments that have been underperforming there from a margin standpoint are Hallin Marine and Completion.
So let me segregate my thoughts a little bit on those.
With Hallin Marine we saw improved utilization in Q2.
We believe as we progressed over the next 4 or 5 quarters that we're going to have some opportunities to get a little bit of pricing permit a time and so that's going to help from a margin standpoint.
And I don't want to get overexuberant in my thoughts here about pricing for Hallin Marine.
When you're coming out of a slow market like that it's a gradual increase.
We all think of it that way.
With Completion Services we saw them move up into a level of profitability that we haven't seen since acquiring those assets.
And I fully expect over the course of the next 5 6 7 quarters that that business will build to a level of what I would consider to be kind of normal profitability that you'd see from a business that's got a Gulf of Mexico and International business mix.
And so I guess the main issue there is don't look for the kind of gross margin improvement that we saw from Q1 to Q2 to repeat itself.
What we've done is kind of enter a level of gross margin performance that's reasonably right at this point in time for that business and then it gradually will improve from there.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Dave I wanted to ask you about the Gulf of Mexico.
You've addressed this partly.
But you've talked previously about losing quite a bit of your rental tool business for the deep Gulf of Mexico with the moratorium and I guess it's partially come back but you redeployed a lot of rental tools into the U.S.
land market.
How much -- with the recovery we have seen so far in Gulf of Mexico drilling how much of that lost rental tool revenue have you recovered? Or is it now just a matter of do you really want to redeploy tools back to that market? Yes so a couple of things there.
Just for clarification purposes on deployment of assets from the deepwater rental tool base we took out of that market last summer what we could that would apply in other places.
The bulk of the assets in those businesses related to deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico are really specific to the deepwater drilling market in the Gulf of Mexico.
And so don't think of this as a large amount or large percentage of our total assets that have transferred out.
Most of them have been there and are still there.
And as far as the contribution that we're seeing from the deepwater market today.
I mean we've got about 20% of the rigs that we're drilling in the deepwater 25% of the rigs I guess that have gone back to work at this point that weren't in for a full quarter in Q2.
Now you kind of start in Q3 with that.
We think we will exit Q3 with maybe 2 or 3 more rigs being added to that fleet.
And when you get up to 15 rigs by the end of the year as we think will happen that's roughly half of the number of rigs that were out there in the deepwater area drilling for oil and gas well in deepwater prior to Macondo.
We gave up about $100 million annually with the rental tool business.
So just think about when you get out to that point in December we'll have about 50% of our revenue volume -- profit volumes back from that.
Got it.
Okay understood.
And that is some of your best margin revenue within the rental tool business I think you've indicated.
Yes that is amongst the best margin revenue that we have anywhere.
Okay when we talked shortly after you became CEO you had quite a bit a good impression of the opportunity in Brazil on the rental tool business also.
And you've mentioned a couple of completions and sand control projects now in Brazil.
How do you see that rental tool opportunity in the Brazilian market? Still feel very good about it.
I mean we've had -- we are participating I've been participating in a number of tenders in Brazil for Petrobras-related rental tools.
We saw our bottom-hole assembly business step up from a revenue standpoint from Q1 to Q2.
We're seeing some opportunities with IOC as well as with some of the Brazilian independents for rental pipe opportunities in the second half of the year.
So I still feel very good about rental tools there.
Our completion tool business made progress in Brazil really faster than I thought they would but the Brazilian completion market is one that is quite large and very interesting too.
We're pursuing a wide range of opportunities in Brazil now rental tool-related intervention-related obviously completion tool-related.
It follows the full gamut.
Yes it's encouraging.
Okay.
Lastly I just wanted to ask about the prospects for large multi-platform decommissioning projects such as Superior has had in the past.
And I guess you have one ongoing project with the Bullwinkle platform.
But is this the kind of work you see more of in the future or it sounds like you're as busy as you can be currently with your existing capacity? So what are the prospects of any more sort of large projects like you've had in the past? Well there's certainly not one that I'm ready to talk to you about right now.
We will always be on the outlook for those.
And I think our experience with those large projects makes us a company that is very attractive to the customer base for carrying these things out.
But they are -- these projects don't grow on trees by any means.
And we think we're in a position to capitalize on those types of projects when they come up but they are very difficult to plan and predict.
And I can tell you none of our guidance that we've given to you is predicated on one of those large projects coming through.
That being said a comment that you made about utilization in this decommissioning business I'm not sure I agree with.
We're not at maximum utilization in that business today even though this is the seasonally busy time of the year.
We could do more work with the assets with the resources that we have in place.
The market for these types of activities has been okay.
I wouldn't describe it as great.
I expect as time goes on that we do see that market firm up.
So I'm not sure that once again our guidance or our forecast is based on that.
But I think there's good reasons to believe that we'll see it firm up some as we go forward.
But I just want to make that point.
We're not fully utilized in that business today.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Dave when I think about the completion tools business.
Can you give me a sense as to how much of that is Gulf of Mexico versus international today? Well it's all been Gulf of Mexico to this point.
I would -- I think a good way to think about the tools side of that business is that as we go forward and look at say 2012 maybe a third of that overall total revenue is coming from the international markets progressing to 2013.
It may become as much as half of the overall revenue is coming from the international market.
I would expect as the business reaches a maturity standpoint or something close to a maturity standpoint that international becomes the biggest part of that revenue mix.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And in terms of how to think about tracking the health of the business is number of wells put down in whatever unconsolidated sense.
Is that going to be a good proxy for growth in that business in the Gulf of Mexico? And what kind of market share do you think you have there? Yes okay.
So I mean really your rig count in the offshore areas that requires sand control is probably your best proxy.
So that's Gulf of Mexico Brazil West Africa parts of Asia parts of the Middle East.
That's kind of the best proxy for you to use.
Our market share is fairly low overall in that business.
I mean more than half of the overall market is in the international arena.
And to this point we've not generated any revenue internationally.
So that means that that entire market is there available to us for us for growth.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> How about the Gulf of Mexico share? The gulf of Mexico share traditionally for this product line and the people that promote and engineer this product line has been good.
I mean I think you can think about overall historically the market share for this product line being in the kind of 25% range.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
That is pretty good.
And Dave when you -- you talked about healthy additions for capital expenditures in 2012 should we be thinking of maybe a flat capital budget year-on-year? I think a flat capital budget would be a bit conservative.
I mean that may be a good plug for you to use at the moment.
But what I've said is that we -- and I think I've been consistent in saying this is that we see a lot of opportunities available to us for growth.
We intend to reinvest the cash flow that we generate.
I fully expect that we're going to generate more cash in 2012 and we are in 2011.
And so unless those opportunities start to shrink which I don't see or unless those opportunities are coming at a margin threshold or return threshold that's not acceptable to us then we're going to keep investing.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
What do you think the lead time on the coiled unit is today? It depends.
We -- I think you're looking at general at somewhere in the neighborhood of 9 to 12 months.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then finally I've heard some stories about maybe some of the construction guys trying to enter the P&amp;A decommissioning market in order to drive utilization of their assets and put a little bit of pressure on the market.
Are you seeing any of that in the Gulf of Mexico right now? This is always a market that is prone to companies that have the right types of assets to participate.
And it's also prone to guys who don't have any assets at all to participate.
You can be in the decommissioning business with a project management company and rent all your assets in.
It's a business that has historically seen a pretty broad group of overall competitors.
I don't know if that situation is any different today than it was a year ago or will be a year from now when there are a lot of construction projects going on or pipeline projects going on in the Gulf of Mexico and assets become tighter when those projects are not in such abundance and assets are available and people look for a way to put them to work.
So I don't know that we've specifically seen an onslaught of new competitors in that business.
But Joe the structural decommissioning side of business for us is one that we've kind of been relatively low historically from a market share standpoint not really looking to grow that market share.
We're not the biggest player in that business either.
Our expertise and where we have benefited the most in this business in the past has been on those very specialized projects like the BP wreck removal project that involved a lot more than structural removal.
It involved the plug and abandonment of wellbores that were laying on the seafloor that our pressure control expertise makes us uniquely qualified to deal with.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
My question Robert was for you just with regard to the second quarter margin performance in the drilling proxy and services business.
Did I hear you correctly that the reason that you guys mentioned the lower margin sequentially was a function of the damaged drill pipe that had hurt margins am I correct there? Yes.
That's part of it yes.
I thought on -- I thought when it related to damaged drill pipe that the customer obligation or that obligation came back to the customer in terms of making you guys hold for the damaged drill pipe.
Was that not the case in this instance? The margin impact is dependent on how much with an input value of the asset is.
So if you have an asset that you've lost that has very little net book value then you're going to get a great margin.
In this case what we have was some of these assets that were relatively new that were damaged.
And we recovered all of our costs and made a margin.
It just wasn't at the normal margin that we typically enjoy in that segment.
What you have to think about is a lot of the drill pipe assets have been added to the U.S.
land fleet very recently and they're not depreciated.
So when we lose that pipe we're losing pretty high margin or pretty high net book value pipe.
Okay that's a great clarification.
And then I guess just as we think about the margins within the drilling products business going forward you certainly are expecting to be up again in 3Q.
I'm just curious from a mix perspective Dave right because I think you mentioned earlier you're going to get the higher-margin Gulf of Mexico deepwater work continuing to come back into the equation here.
I got to believe that as we think about the U.S.
land business the top line there you're going to be probably seeing growth in excess of rig count I would imagine even though you were relatively flat in Q2.
The magnitude of margin growth that we could expect in that business second or third quarter any ideas how we should think about that for that segment as a whole? I mean I think in general a good way to think about it is at least in the third quarter returning to margins that are closer to or maybe a little bit better than what we saw in the first quarter from a margin standpoint.
And that's really I'd say closer to or better than.
It's really a function of some of the deepwater assets going forward.
Okay.
And I guess just as it relates to U.S.
land in the Subsea and Well Enhancement so given the capacity additions there it's probably still a reasonable expectation to assume that top line revenue U.S.
land is growing faster than the rig count just like we saw in 2Q going forward.
Is that fair? I think that is fair as well.
Our next question comes from the line of William Conroy with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC</strong> Dave maybe a couple for you.
One is when you think about the Gulf of Mexico how should we think about the sequential growth that you guys just put up in terms of the seasonal upturn which was certainly present and the increase in activity maybe I'll say related to permitting? So you've got 2 factors going there.
Can you maybe try to handicap between the 2 for us? Yes I'll try to do that.
I mean kind of going back to the factors that drove this Gulf of Mexico business.
If you go back and think about the fourth quarter as your benchmark for the intervention business and the plug and abandonment decommissioning business and for shelf drilling okay? That's a good benchmark.
What we added to that is we added additional completion tool -- completion services revenue as a result of some of the deepwater rigs going back to work and we added the rental tool revenue on the deepwater rigs.
And so I know that because of the quarter we had in Q1 this can be confusing.
That's why I draw you back to Q4 as the base point.
Now if you go back and look at both of those segments from a Q4 standpoint I think it flows a little bit better.
LLC</strong> Got it.
That helps.
And just as a follow-up and changing gears and following on to a previous question about your interest in the U.S.
land market.
This obviously has been a pretty significant initiative for the company say during your tenure.
How well penetrated do you think you are in some of those land markets where Superior historically did not have much of a presence.
And I'm thinking that even the Eagle Ford which is relatively new for everyone but West Texas and the Bakken and maybe how well penetrated compared to some of the other land markets where you guys have historically had a better presence? Yes I think that's a great question.
We have -- we probably -- I would gauge our penetration as being the best in North Louisiana in the Northeast and in North Dakota.
We certainly have assets and operations in South Texas and the mid continent Permian Basin and in Colorado and the Rockies.
But I would say that our geographic penetration in those markets is certainly less than it is in North Louisiana the Northeast and North Dakota.
And so as time goes on I would expect that those are markets that we're able to see some growth in above and beyond just general market growth in this place because we're successful in moving into them.
And we're present in those.
They're just -- we don't have the same kind of maturity from a penetration standpoint that we do in the Northeast North Louisiana or North Dakota.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons and Company.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
Dave on Brazil can you give us a sense as to what 2011 revs range bound what that might be and what the opportunity set is for '12? Yes so I think what we've told you guys in the past is we did about $30 million in 2010 and we expect that to grow somewhere in the 30% or 40% range during 2011.
In 2012 I'm really not sure I'm ready to pin myself down to a number for 2012.
We've got a lot of tenders that are outstanding right now that could really cause a big swing.
I mean some of the tenders that we're participating in could add as much as $10 million $15 million a year of revenue and we're starting with $30 million basis pretty significant.
I mean those are the types of opportunities that are out there and available for us right now.
And I think that we will capitalize on a range of those opportunities.
I'm just not sure how much for 2012 at this point.
Can you say when you would expect to hear on those tenders? Is that something? Well I mean we talked about a couple of them.
We had the sand control screen tender which I talked about and that's actually going to impact us in the second half of 2011.
We've got this Multi-Zone Single Trip once again completion tool win that I talked about earlier that is going to impact us both in 2011 and probably not be installed until 2012.
So listen as we get those rewards we will talk to you about it.
Okay.
Given the sharp increases we've seen in coiled tubing rates things like that have you seen any customer shift from coiled tubing back to traditional workover? For -- are you talking about for proppant cleanout application? Yes.
Anything along those lines? Is that something that you're hearing about? That's something I'm hearing about.
I mean clearly I think that -- I've talked in the past about the fact that with all of the completions-related work we're doing with coiled tubing we're not doing very much intervention work.
And they were in excess of 400 or close to 500 coiled tubing units that were working in the market before we started doing these numerous multi-zone frac jobs 3 years ago.
And those coiled tubing were all doing intervention work.
Now I don't think that intervention work is all sitting on a shelf somehow it's getting done.
Service rig is one way to do that.
Snubbing is another way to do it if it's an application that requires a live well access.
But I don't know that I've heard specifically of service rigs taken over for coiled tubing and washing out proppant and doing the type of completion-related work that we're doing today.
Okay and just one last one for me.
I know you haven't set a '12 CapEx budget.
But in theory at this point if you would think about an allocation of the dollars.
Would this be consistent with what you're doing in '11 or would you shift more internationally? Any thoughts? Yes I mean I think in general as time goes on there will be more of a shift to international.
As our footprint goes -- grows where it's going to grow as a result of new equipment.
We don't have equipment to transfer in any of these new markets.
And so the general trend will be for a higher percentage of our CapEx dollars to go to the international markets.
I thought we'd be spending more in international this year as a percent of our total capital budget but of course I didn't think we'd be spending $500 million a year ago either.
And part of what we've done I think is to really try and capitalize on this very robust U.S.
market.
I think that market is going to continue to be robust in 2012.
So I'm going to try to find ways to take advantage of opportunities both in the U.S.
land business as well as the International business.
Our final question comes from the line of Matt Beeby with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> Just a clarification on the coiled tubing.
It sounds like I heard a 10% revenue growth.
Is that accurate and is that driven more by the new units that were added during the quarter or is there still some pricing strength there? It's not necessarily driven by new units that came in during the quarter probably more driven by units that came in late last quarter.
So it's still capacity-related as much as anything.
From a pricing standpoint the moderate pricing gains that we've been able to make into coiled tubing I think are getting eaten up by labor inflation to a great extent.
And I think there'll continue to be some slight upward movement of pricing in coiled tubing as the year goes on.
But I'm not really counting on a lot of that driving earnings improvement for us.
Our earnings improvement is more driven by additional equipment in the market than it is pricing or higher volume.
LLC</strong> Shifting over to the Marine segment real quick do you expect their margins to be more like we saw in 1Q and continue to sell vessels in that segment if you maybe hit the highlights of what the strategy is there going forward? Yes.
Well I mean I certainly think their margins are going to be better than what we saw in the second quarter.
First quarter is one where seasonally it's generally not one of the better quarters for liftboats.
So actually what we're expecting is better margins in the third quarter than we've seen in any of the first or second quarter for the liftboats.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back to management for closing remarks.
Yes well thank you everyone for joining us and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the Superior Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded today October 27 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead.
All right good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters and the company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and these items on the website.
I will now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Last night we reported quarterly -- record quarterly revenue of $565 million EBITDA of $177 million and net income of just under $60 million or $0.73 per diluted share.
Our performance was in line with our expectations thanks to the continued strength of the U.S.
land markets the gradual improvement of the Gulf of Mexico and the steady growth we are achieving internationally.
Without question growth in the U.S.
land market is the major factor driving our third quarter performance as revenue increased almost 16% through a quarterly record of $229 million.
The record results reflect high utilization for new capacity added during the year as we have invested about $170 million of CapEx in the U.S.
during the first 9 months of 2011.
The market continues to show an appetite for absorbing new capacity for virtually all of our intervention services and drilling products.
Our U.S.
land results would have been even stronger if not for weather interruptions in Pennsylvania during September.
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico activity continued to slowly migrate upward as a few more rigs were drilling during the quarter which benefited our completion services and premium drill type -- pipe businesses.
In fact completion services had its best quarter since we acquired the business in August of last year.
By our estimate there were 13 incremental rigs drilling in the deepwater of Gulf of Mexico at the end of the quarter.
This is out of a total floater count of 20 according to recent ODS-Petrodata rig report.
Our annual guidance calls for 15 incremental rigs drilling in the deepwater by the end of the year.
So far in October 2 additional rigs have been put to work so our guidance appears to be on track.
Activity in the shallow water Gulf of Mexico also improved.
But much like in Pennsylvania tropical weather disrupted activity for about a week in September.
International revenue increased to a record of $143 million due mostly to a 12% increase in Drilling Products and Services.
We continued to experience increased demand for premium drill pipe in Latin America especially in Brazil.
In addition snubbing and hydraulic workover activity increased in Peru and Trinidad.
Hallin Marine's results were down slightly as compared with second quarter due to costs incurred with transitioning the Ullswater from West Africa to Singapore for a project that starts in the Asia-Pacific market during the fourth quarter.
We could have left the Ullswater in West Africa but the backlog of work in Southeast Asia has grown to the point where it made more economic sense to bring the vessel to Asia.
Utilization at Hallin remained strong and has increased since the end of the third quarter as the vessel schedule is solid for the remainder of the year.
Hallin's revenue was slightly higher than in Q2 despite the downtime and higher costs.
We had strong incremental margins in Drilling Products and Services due to higher revenue and favorable business mix and in the Marine Segment as a result of lower maintenance and repair expenses.
Margins in the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment were lower relative to the second quarter due to the weather-related downtime I mentioned earlier and the vessel transition costs at Hallin Marine.
Both of those issues are transitory and confined to the quarter.
Robert will walk you now through some of the financial detail and then I'll discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I'll turn the call over to our CFO Robert Taylor.
Thank you David.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the second quarter of 2011.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment revenue was $378 million and income from operation was $56 million which represents sequential increases of 12% and 9% respectively.
U.S.
land revenue increased 18% to $154 million.
We experienced higher demand across all of our intervention services with the largest increases coming from coiled tubing and wireline services as the market absorbed capacity added during the year.
Coiled tubing revenue increased 17%.
As you will recall we had put 8 new units to work during the first 9 months of the year.
Our wireline revenue was up 17% due to increased utilization in the Rockies Bakken Marcellus and Haynesville.
We also had a nice increase in pressure control services and hydraulic workover and snubbing services.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 14% to $128 million with some of the main increases coming from completion services pressure control and plug and abandonment services.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue includes about $9 million in revenue from a subsea containment project off the coast of Alaska.
Since it is an offshore project we categorized that revenue at the Gulf of Mexico to clearly to separate any -- from any traditional market area that we track.
International revenue was $96 million which represents an increase of 2%.
Hydraulic workover and snubbing services and completion services experienced the largest increases.
As Dave mentioned the margins were lower in this segment primarily due to weather and Hallin Marine.
At Hallin the Ullswater spent 45 days with no revenue as it transitioned back to Singapore for its next project after completing work in West Africa.
Also the Windermere had its drydocking in September for 24 days and the Penrith had its annual survey in September which took 10 days.
In the Drilling Products and Services Segment revenue was $164 million.
And income from operations was $43 million which represents a 10% sequential increase in revenue and a 45% sequential increase in income from operations.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 4% to approximately $41 million due to an increase in the rental of premium drill pipe and stabilization equipment as the market continues to experience a modest return of drilling and completion activity in the deepwater.
U.S.
land revenue increased 11% sequentially to approximately $75 million as a result of increased demand for accommodations drill pipe and bottomhole assembly.
The incremental operating margin was almost 94% primarily due to the business mix shifting towards premium pipe rentals and less equipment sales than the second quarter.
In the Marine Segment revenue decreased 5% to $24 million while income from operations declined 3% to $5.5 million.
As you may recall in the second quarter we reported a gain of $5.9 million related to the sale of 4 liftboats.
So on a normalized basis without the gain our third quarter income from operations increased by about $5.7 million over the second quarter.
Decrease in revenue is mostly attributable to weather-related downtime and fewer liftboats in the fleet.
Liftboat utilization increased to 77% from 70%.
Cost of services as a percentage of revenue was substantially lower due to a decrease in repairs and maintenance costs.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter the face value of our debt exclusive of discounts was approximately $1.2 billion.
This includes $400 million in convertible debt which will be paid off in December.
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the third quarter was 1.5x as compared to 1.7x at the end of the second quarter.
Net debt to total capital was 35% as compared to 37% at the end of the second quarter.
Capital expenditures during the third quarter were $112.5 million.
We spent $51.6 million in the Drilling Products and Services Segment and $60 million in the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment.
Year-to-date our capital expenditures have been just under $330 million.
From a modeling perspective in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $95 million to $97 million.
And for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $67 million to $69 million.
We'd anticipate our net interest expense to be about $20 million.
We are also modeling an effective income tax rate of 36%.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the remainder of the year.
Thank you Robert.
We have narrowed our earnings guidance to a range of $2.03 to $2.10 per share which leads the midpoint of our guidance unchanged from what we provided last quarter.
We believe the continued strength in the U.S.
land markets for our intervention services and drilling products as well as continued international growth will help to partially offset seasonality in the Gulf of Mexico during the fourth quarter.
For those of you that have followed the company for a while you know that seasonality during this time of the year in the Gulf of Mexico can take 2 forms: holidays and weather.
We know with relative certainty that activity for optional work like plug abandonment and other remedial projects slows down in December and stays at lower levels through much of the winter.
No customer wants to deal with a project of this nature during the holiday season.
The weather is a bit more uncertain.
Customers do not want to commence projects if the weather window is not certain for the duration of the work.
And while there's a great deal of unknown in trying to forecast the weather we believe our guidance range accounts for that variability.
We've not experienced any slowdown in our U.S.
land businesses nor have our customers indicated any near-term changes in demand for our products and services.
The supply chain remains so tight that new equipment is put on hire as quickly as it enters the market.
As a result we do not anticipate any changes to margins during the quarter.
Pricing has been well behaved as the product and service markets we compete in are highly fragmented.
We believe growth in the market comes from volume expansion as service intensity remains extremely high and smaller operators have had little access to the supply chain.
We expect that international revenue will continue to increase at its steady pace.
We'll see a pickup in revenue from completion tools in Brazil based on delivery of our Multi-Zone Single Trip system this quarter Hallin Marine is poised to have a good quarter of vessel utilization.
In fact we think 2012 is setting up to be an excellent year at Hallin based on recent project awards and backlog.
In summary the fourth quarter should shape up to be a solid closing to what has been a very good year for Superior.
Looking out to 2012 we are still formulating our budget and capital expenditure plans.
And we will be prepared to share the highlights of those efforts with you during the first quarter of 2012.
However let me discuss our current thinking with respect to the outlook for the U.S.
land markets.
We understand that there is a lot of uncertainty regarding activity levels next year.
Our view of the U.S.
market is that the range of potential outcomes for next year is very narrow and not enough to curtail activity increases for our products and services due to 3 key factors that we think will persist.
Those factors are supply chain constraints the growing backlog of wells drilled but not yet completed and the number of small operators with fully funded programs waiting to access the supply chain.
Let me provide you with data that supports our thesis about North America.
The Haynesville rig count is down about 26% since the end of 2010.
But our Haynesville completions and intervention revenue in the third quarter is up 28% as compared with the fourth quarter of 2010.
Service activity has not kept up with drilling due to the intensity required to complete and produce these wells and inefficiencies in the supply chain which is resulting in little correlation between the supply chain and the real-time rig count.
Here's another data point.
About 40% of the rigs drilling in the U.S.
today are contracted by private companies.
We believe that there are a lot of small single basin operators with fully funded drilling plans that can't even access a drilling rig.
If larger operators choose to let service equipment go I believe there's a backlog of customers that are ready to pick up that equipment.
Looking at some of our other geographic markets.
We think the Gulf of Mexico will add a few more rigs drilling in the deepwater during 2012.
Perhaps that number migrates up to the low 20s by the end of 2012.
Internationally we see a lot of opportunities to grow in Asia with subsea services and intervention services and in Latin America with drilling products and completion services.
We intend to open a location in Saudi Arabia in 2012 entering the market with pressure control services followed soon after by other intervention services.
From there we can pursue additional opportunities in Kuwait.
We're also carrying out market intelligence today in Argentina Malaysia and India.
Our 2012 outlook remains upbeat given the potential range of outcomes we see unfolding in the U.S.
the continued recovery in the Gulf of Mexico and new opportunities in several international markets.
Finally I've spent a lot of time with our employees and field managers during the past couple of weeks.
The more time that I spend with these people the easier it is for me to understand why we are having so much success at Superior.
We have great people that are delivering a great year to our shareholders and I want to thank them for their dedication and hard work.
And so I think now we'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of James West of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> David it sounds like your CapEx for this year just the Superior CapEx is running a little bit light of what you expected to spend.
I think you were -- we were talking about close to $500 million I guess.
One am I right about that? And two do you think you'll get all that CapEx in the fourth quarter or does some slip into next year just because of supply chain issues? James you are correct.
We are behind in CapEx.
We really were behind in the first half of the year and continued to be behind after the third quarter.
We believe we're going to get very close still to the overall $500 million that we budgeted by the end of the year.
Of course it's all coming in later.
So -- at this point I still feel confident in the number but I got to tell you the supply chain has been tight with our suppliers.
And I know a lot of companies have talked about this and we've been impacted by it as well.
And it's a frustration but one that I think -- I think we'll be very close to being caught up with by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And the mismatch Dave is it -- is it items that would immediately be accretive to earnings? Is it things like drill pipe or is it some of the spending you have at Hallin which is going to be more for 2012 and 2013? It's primarily related to services not to the rental pipe.
Although there are some elements of our fleet that include things like pressure control rentals and things like this grease injectors frac stacks that have been a bit slow.
We've been slow in receiving the pump down units that's been a bit behind budget.
We've received all of our coiled tubing equipment to this point but -- and that was pretty much on schedule.
But some of the pumping units associated with the coiled tubing equipment were a bit slow in being delivered.
So I characterize it more as being on the intervention side of the business than on the rental side of the business as we're looking behind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- with respect to 2012 CapEx you're going to have extra cash flow from Complete assuming the deal gets closed before the end of this year.
I know you've talked about using some of that CapEx internationally.
This morning you mentioned Saudi is a new market and a couple of other markets that you're reviewing.
Do you need the complete cash flow to be able to fund areas like Saudi? Or is that already in your thinking with your cash flow just appear independently for next year? Saudi is already in our thinking for the Superior generated cash flow outside of Complete.
I think what I've consistently said about this is that as we close the complete deal and have access overall to a bigger cash pool it does gives us the optionality perhaps to accelerate some of this international expansion and take on a few more areas sooner than we otherwise would.
But Saudi has been a part of our plan and it's really outside of that compound.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With regards to Saudi Dave that's an interesting choice.
My understanding is you have to get qualified to work for Aramco.
So I guess I would be asking are you qualified to work on the pressure control business for Aramco? Well we've historically done pressure control work for Aramco.
In fact wild well control has been their primary choice when they have some form of well control emergency or rig inspections or a variety of work that we have done with wild well control in Saudi.
We've never been located there.
It's always been services that we've done on a spot basis for them as required.
And so that business has been and continues to be qualified with Aramco.
And it's now with a permanent presence and an increased scope of work and some of the details of that are still being worked out.
That's really our point of entry there so -- I mean to answer your question yes we are qualified.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of switching gears to a little bit different area.
Brazil saw some nice increases.
Could you talk about your success in penetrating Petrobras as an account? And give us a status update on Australia.
Yes so Brazil is moving along kind of as we have planned.
We had a small acquisition that we closed in the third quarter which is giving us access to the land market now in -- in and around Americas use up in the northeastern part of Brazil.
It's a largely overlooked market quite frankly because so many are focused in the offshore area.
But there's also an offshore market that's accessible for Americas use as well.
We're also building out our footprint there I think it's good.
The acquisition is a small pumping services company submitting in remedial acidizing so it also gives us a bit of a service on there.
The buildout is happening just fine.
And by the way that company has contracts with Petrobras today.
But we have -- we are expanding our network of contracts there and still see a lot of opportunities a number of tenders that are in the works right now.
On Australia things are moving along in Australia.
We had a real good quarter there from an intervention services standpoint.
Snubbing is our biggest service line there today and we continue to work through other opportunities that are growth related.
One of the things we need to do in 2012 and will be part of our budget is to get Brazil some intervention and probably some remedial pumping equipment.
So building out that side of the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You gave a good overview of North America and some good specifics that I agree with on the optimism there.
But I've been hearing from a lot of investors concerned that the shift to Complete is abandoning your international push.
You've obviously gone through this morning some of the international I guess where you're pushing it a bit.
But to approach it from a higher level is this a complete shift to refocus efforts in North America? Or are you still going to take a balanced approach globally? I mean to answer your question it is clearly a balanced approach.
And our enthusiasm for the buildout of the international business is no different than it was prior to announcing the merger with Complete.
We still see that.
And I still personally see that as being long-term the best growth opportunity for the company.
It's one where I believe is a result of having a bigger balance sheet and a larger cash flow.
We'll actually be able to accelerate our entry into some of these new markets and accelerating those fund those the way they need to be funded when you start up a new country operation.
So it is certainly not a move away from the international strategy at all.
In fact it doesn't have any impact on our international strategy.
If anything Marshall there are a few other markets that we have been looking at and some markets that we participate in today where pressure pumping services and specifically fracturing may actually speed our revenue growth at some of those new places.
So you think about Australia as an example Australia is a fracturing market.
We've got a big initiative in Australia today and so I think if anything this acquisition really -- it complements our international strategy extremely well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought.
Okay shifting gears.
Pipe rental it appears in your results that it has been on fire.
And when you look to '12 and let's just say for now you keep your CapEx similar is pipe really going to continue to be a big chunk of that? Can you just kind of give us a preview I guess of what you're looking at for the CapEx and the distribution of that CapEx in '12? Well we haven't finalized the 2012 capital budget so really I'm not prepared to go into great detail on that on this call.
We'll certainly cover that in the next call.
But I think that the opportunities to continue to build out our overall fleet of premium pipe and to be as good in 2012 as it was in 2011 and it would not surprise me at all if our overall cash dollars were premium pipe in 2012 or more than they were in 2011.
There's still a need for additional premium pipe in the U.S.
market.
A number of the horizontal rigs that are drilling to date don't have access to premium pipe.
Our demands from customers and the markets that we focused on continues to be very strong and we have not focused on every one of the -- every one of the shale and oil basins in the U.S.
yet.
We had to kind of pick and choose during 2011 which one we wanted to attack and there are several of those markets that have been unattacked by us.
So my instinct tells me that there's going to be probably at least as much or maybe more of an opportunity for investment in pipe here in 2012 as it was for 2011.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And remind us what percent that was in '11 roughly in terms of how much the pipe absorbed into CapEx.
Well the total -- the total rental CapEx for the year is just under $200 million.
Not all of that is pipe I mean there are stabilizers included in there but...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> At 40% of your CapEx? More is just for pipe.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dave in terms of where we stand on this deepwater revenue that you indicated you had lost post-Macondo.
And from the peak how far are we back -- obviously we're not back to the peak but we're up from the trough kind of where do we stand in terms of your recovering that high margin deepwater revenue? And so we think by the end of December we'll be about halfway there from a rig count standpoint.
So our prediction -- our prediction for rig count is actually turning out pretty well.
That may be the first time I've ever done that.
We said there were going to be about 15 incremental rigs added by the end of December.
It looks like that number is going to be pretty much spot on or real close to it.
So that's -- there were 33 deepwater rigs drilling deepwater wells prior to the Macondo incident so that's not quite 50% but pretty close to it.
One thing -- one thing that's interesting here we kind of realized this in Q2 but we acquired that completions business while we were in the throes of Macondo.
And I think we underestimated just how much of their revenue would be -- and earnings impact would be as a result of deepwater drilling continuing.
And so that was certainly a benefit for us in Q2 it was in Q3 and it will be going forward.
So if you look at our overall exposure of deepwater drilling it's actually a bit higher now as a result of that acquisition than it was prior to Macondo.
Research Division</strong> So we might get back to your peak kind of revenues even before the rig cap gets back to its pre-Macondo level? I think that's right.
Typically the margins are a little bit different in those businesses.
I mean our incremental margin on revenue additions from rental tools as deepwater rigs come back is extremely strong.
We believe those margins are in excess of 80% from an incremental standpoint.
And completions margins aren't going to be quite be that strong but still overall quite a big contributor.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I also wanted to ask you about if you see any opportunities for these large multi-platform decommissioning projects in the Gulf of Mexico such as Superior has executed before? I can tell you we don't have any to report to you today that are new projects for us.
I mean there is decommissioning work that's going on which I would characterize as kind of the standard decommissioning work plug and abandon work.
It's happening at a pace that is about consistent with what we've seen over the last few years.
But the big project that Superior had a few years ago the BP wreck removal project was a pretty special project involving downed platforms and live wellbores that were on the sea floor which certainly are not another one of those type of project surface.
We did take on the Bullwinkle platform almost 2 years ago now.
We've not had another one of those types of projects which is surface.
But once again Bullwinkle is a pretty unique asset too.
Now these things Robin they're really -- these are deals that will be fairly infrequent.
We do have the experience level and a reputation for taking on these types of projects.
So I mean I think when our customers have them available we're going to be certainly be in a conversation but there's not a lot of those conversations going on right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes understood.
And is the Bullwinkle project going as you planned it? Yes it is.
I mean it's -- Bullwinkle is producing for the course of the year as we thought it would.
We haven't done any P&amp;As on Bullwinkle but the interesting about the Bullwinkle business model is we're not doing P&amp;As it's because Dynamic Offshore is carrying out intervention and workover type work that boosts production.
And so the fact that we haven't done P&amp;A this year doesn't mean that our earnings from Bullwinkle are necessarily less than we planned them to be.
So interesting business model from that standpoint because we took this on with the belief we'd be doing a large number of P&amp;As but the profitability out there has been supplemented by the fact that production side than we thought it would be and we haven't worked through the backlog of P&amp;As.
There's still there to do so...
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two things Dave.
One as we look at the fourth quarter could you just give us a sense for sort of the pluses and minuses we should be thinking about? Is there anything seasonally in the Gulf that you're building into your expectations that send us around from the bottom to the top end of your guidance? Yes I mean the 2 big factors during the fourth quarter is holidays and weather.
And the holidays are pretty predictable and we know our customers really don't like to start up new optional type projects plug and abandonment work or intervention work.
They don't like to start those things up close to the holidays.
Last thing in the world you want to do Stephen is to get stuck on a P&amp;A over Christmas so they don't start them then.
Weather weather is pretty tough to predict here.
I mean we are impacted by cold fronts when they blow through the Gulf.
Those cold fronts will kick up seas.
They will shut down liftboats for a period of a time and they'll shut down supply boats which are carrying some of the plug and abandonment or intervention equipment out to locations.
So that's just something we have to deal with during the winter.
I think what we've done is come up with a range of guidance that kind of covers us if we have a really bad weather period here during the fourth quarter and it's -- and we think that we put that in the range of guidance I guess.
If we wind up without any significant weather issues then we're going to be strong from a revenue standpoint in those service lines I think probably through the second or third week of December.
But there's still a pullback that happens at the end of the year that's inevitable.
Research Division</strong> Okay and the 2 other things.
One as I sort of just carry that thought forward it seems like we generally underestimate the first quarter seasonality consistently.
As we sort of think about it going forward now for 1Q '12 is there any change in the business mix? I mean obviously U.S.
land would probably help.
But is there any change in the mix that will make your first quarter '12 maybe less significantly down seasonally from 4Q in this upcoming year versus the last couple? Yes.
I mean you're exposed to a little bit longer weather problem in the first quarter.
But let me talk about this a little bit because if you try and use the first quarter of 2010 as your benchmark Q1 of 2010 was unusually slow in the Gulf of Mexico for optional work.
And if you've heard me talk about this in the past we already talked about it when we reported earnings in Q1 I think it was largely driven by the fact that so many of our operators had -- that weren't drilling wells during Macondo were putting their technical people and operational staff on -- in some of these plug and abandonment and intervention projects between about June of 2010 and December of 2010 so they worked through a lot of that stuff that maybe ordinarily they would have done in January and February in most years.
So what I'm pointing you towards is as you look at Q1 2010 the Gulf of Mexico I believe was unusually impacted by that.
We would expect in Q1 of 2012 to have something that's a bit more normal from an activity level in those optional type of work activities but it's still impacted by the weather.
And January and February are notorious in the Gulf of Mexico for having weather-related slowdowns or shutdowns because operators don't want to hire a boat to move things around when they're not confident in the near-term weather window.
Research Division</strong> You mean 1Q '11 not '10 right? I'm sorry.
Yes Q1 '11 sorry.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a final thought and that's very helpful color is Hallin Marine how should we think about that its contribution to revenue and whether it's positive or negative on average margins in Subsea and Well Enhancement like sort of right now and then again for the fourth quarter given your positive commentary on utilization there? Well I mean it's been kind of up and down during the course of 2011 so I'm going to walk through that.
Q1 was terrible.
Utilization was bad and it was a bad quarter for Hallin Marine.
Q2 was a big recovery.
And they were a contributor from a cash standpoint from a profitability standpoint.
Q3 the revenue level was quite good.
And I think we made a comment that their revenue in Q3 was actually a bit higher than Q2.
We chose to relocate one of those vessels during the course of the quarter and we chose to get some of our drydock work on 2 other vessels out of the way during the quarter.
Those 2 events hampered our margins.
But nonetheless they were profitable slightly profitable during the course of Q3.
So that business has improved now.
It ought to be obvious that we caused the vessel to move from West Africa into Asia and we sped up I guess the drydock and requirements on the other 2 vessels because of the backlog of work we're looking at for Q1 and I think that's going to flow into the beginning of 2012.
So we're pretty optimistic about how we end the year with Hallin Marine and it will be a positive contributor from a profitability standpoint.
And then I think through '12 it's just going to continue to improve.
But let me say something about Hallin Marine.
We talk about Hallin Marine quite a bit and sometimes I think we probably have talked about it too much because overall from a revenue standpoint it's about 5% or less of our total revenue.
It's a pretty small part of our overall business but I know people are interested in it.
It certainly has not been a very strong producer for the company since we acquired the assets 2 years ago.
But we look at 2012 as being the year where we think it's going to be a nice contributor for us.
I don't think overall in that market we'll see complete price recovery during 2012.
But if we're able to get 1/2 or 2/3 of that price recovery from levels that we saw prior to the acquisition we'll be pretty happy.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Since we did just address Hallin's performance in Q3 I was curious if Dave you could maybe draw a ring around what weather impacts in the Marcellus in the Gulf of Mexico might have meant to Q3? Were they larger in terms of their impact in the Hallin impacts you had or smaller? Overall they were larger than the Hallin impact.
It was -- and I think you've heard this from others we realized a slowdown in Pennsylvania as a result of the flooding that was there.
It was really primarily related to the inability to move equipment around for a period of time that pulled -- that held us back from what we otherwise would have earned.
And then of course we were shut down in the Gulf of Mexico Central Gulf of Mexico for about 5 days as a result of a tropical storm that went through.
And so those were the 2 impacts.
Whenever we have those I don't recall one in Pennsylvania quite like this.
This was pretty unusual for Pennsylvania.
But between those 2 it was certainly more of an impact than Hallin Marine's miss versus our expectations.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of thinking about international business this year you had a couple -- you've highlighted a couple of international completion tool wins.
You've had some relatively high profile international P&amp;A jobs.
Looking ahead to '12 and thinking about the international visibility you have is the international growth in 2012 does it build on what you've seen on the tools in the P&amp;A side? Or is it going to be more driven by the deployment of incremental capital into the rental tool business globally? I mean I think in total it's driven more by our capital investments whether it's on a drilling side -- drilling products and services side of the business or on the intervention side.
But Daniel I mean every country that we go to is going to have a little bit different story.
And I think that's part of the beauty and the breadth of the product line in this company.
We did have good success with the subsea P&amp;As in Indonesia last year.
We've been doing some of that work in the second half of the year in Egypt from a plug and abandonment decommissioning standpoint.
I think you'll see those stories be spotted around the globe as we go forward.
The Drilling Products and Services is going to be a much bigger player in those markets where the rig count is higher.
That's where you make the most money in Drilling Products and Services in areas like Australia which is not necessarily a huge rig count it's going to do more driven by intervention services.
So everywhere has got a little bit different story.
I think over time what you'll see though as we build our footprint larger in some of these big mature and growing markets we get a chance to flow more product lines through.
In Brazil it started with rental tools.
We announced the completion tools win.
Now I mentioned that we bought this small pumping services company there still look for some wins going forward on that side of the business as well.
Ultimately we'll get a chance I think in coiled tubing in Brazil when it's time for Petrobras to reach into that work.
So everywhere has got a little bit different story from a product line standpoint.
It won't be all the same.
But they all kind of become very active and the cumulative effect of those over time I think is very positive.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'll pin one small one right here.
The Alaska work noted was that truly onetime? Or is there a future opportunity in Alaska? What we reported during the quarter was related to the sale of 2 small vessels that are part of one of our customers' well containment plans for their hope for permits offshore Alaska for next summer.
We've been working with them more extensively on an engineering study and planning for a much larger containment option.
That I guess we'll be able to tell you more about when we get our contract finalized and when our customer gets their drilling permits.
Our next question comes from the line of Geoff Kieburtz with Weeden &amp; Company.
LP Research Division</strong> I just want to come back to the U.S.
land margin.
If you can take out the affect of the weather in the quarter what is the trend on your U.S.
land margins? You mentioned 94% incrementals in the drilling and production -- drilling products and services but what's going on underneath the seasonal impact? Overall margins my observation in services related margins in the U.S.
and our business is they've been fairly flat.
We have seen some cost increases in the services side the land business which for us a lot of that is coiled tubing.
We've seen some cost increases on the labor side which we've been able to offset through price increases to our customers.
But if you look at it overall from a margin standpoint it's been fairly consistent over the last 3 or 4 quarters really.
And they're good margins Geoff.
So really as fragmented as the market is as many suppliers as there are for things like coiled tubing I think the pricing is going to stay pretty well-behaved.
I think it has been more well-behaved prices and good margins.
The operators if they don't like my price they can pick up the phone and call 6 or 7 other people and get a price.
They may not be able to get equipment but they can really get reference points.
And what does that is it really -- it causes the margins to be fairly consistent as we've experienced during the course of the year and what I think we would experience going forward.
LP Research Division</strong> So price -- any price leverage is being -- you can do it either way either you're able to price to offset cost inflation or the cost inflation is eating up any margin improvement that you're getting from the...
Right.
It would be -- I think it would be problematic if we were in a situation where those margins were low but they're not.
The margins are at a good midpoint I would call it.
It's the margin that certainly inspires reinvestment.
But it's not margins that are off-the-wall.
How's that? There's no 50% margins in there.
But hey think about normalized service margins kind of the 25% to 35% range I mean that's typically what we see in those businesses today.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
So the incremental margins may be around 30%? Yes that's probably a good reference point 30% to 35%.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And you mentioned you kind of caught my ear when you were talking about the strength in the Haynesville given the rig count decline and you punctuated that with the contrast between the rig count change and the revenue growth there.
How long do think that keeps going? I understand the driver is the uncompleted wells.
But the rig count is down so the population of uncompleted wells should be shrinking.
It certainly is.
I mean we're clearly not drilling as many wells in the Haynesville as we were at this time last year.
The rig count is down.
The completion backlog the services backlog following those rigs has been tremendous.
I fully expect if rig count continues to trend down in the Haynesville that we'll reach a point in 2012 where we start to work through that backlog.
I thought it was going to be sooner than this.
I didn't really have an appreciation for the backlog.
I made a trip up to North Louisiana about 3 months ago and my attention was to spend some time with our managers up there and ensure that they were thinking about transfer of equipment because I know we've got needs in the Eagle Ford we've got needs in the Permian Basin we've got needs in the Bakken we've got needs in the Marcellus and so -- I mean I'm still relatively new to the company and still getting to know some of these managers.
I want to make sure they were kind of thinking about things right.
And I got up there and they described for me their current work level and showed me what their current turndown levels are and I got in my car and drove home.
It's not time to transfer equipment yet.
I mean there will be that point in time if the rig count stays down in the Haynesville but we're not there yet.
And I also believe that that same type of backlog is building in other basins as well.
I don't think that's something that's just happening in Haynesville today.
And we've heard our customers talk about it in some other areas like South Texas like Permian Basin like North Dakota.
So I thought you guys might appreciate that example from the Haynesville.
Listen I keep looking for the revenue levels to start to fall off as well and we've seen just the opposite.
And we still got customers in the Haynesville that are asking us to bring more capacity in for certain areas.
So the supply chain is not in exactly the same position with every product line.
It's one place with fracturing another place with coiled tubing another place with frac stacks and grease injectors or whatever it may be a lot of different elements required here to carry out these completions.
The one common element is they all seem to be undersupplied to the market but there's variations from one to the next is exactly where they are.
LP Research Division</strong> And when you look at the current portfolio of businesses or products and services you're delivering in the U.S.
land market.
As we see this shift it may not have been impacting Superior quite as immediately but as we see the shift from gas to liquids is there any real difference in the profitability of that business or the if you will service intensity per rig for your portfolio as we shift from gas to liquid? There is not.
We used to say our service company is working in North America that we were levered to North American natural gas prices and what I say now is we are levered to wellbore geometry.
It's all about horizontal wells and long horizontal wells and the commodity we are commodity indifferent.
LP Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And just a little bit of a nitpick perhaps but last quarter in giving your second half guidance you made a comment that fourth quarter should look about the same as third quarter in terms of earnings.
The guidance suggests that we're more likely to see a negative -- sequential decline.
Am I making too much of a small deal? Or is there something that's changed since last quarter? You're making too much of a small deal.
I mean we thought the quarters would be similar.
If you think about where we've come from now -- I mean we produced $0.53 in the second quarter up to $0.69 in the third quarter that's a 30% increase in earnings that's a lot from one quarter to the next knowing that we have the seasonality and holiday period which affects us in Q4.
I think you're making a deal out of nothing there.
Our next question comes from the line of Travis Bartlett with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you all on coiled tubing.
Specifically Dave on the Superior Complete merger call you commented that the current supply of coiled tubing units is roughly 600 units while demand is currently somewhere between 1 000 and 1 100 units.
How do you all plan to address this undersupplied market in 2012? Well I mean I think our plan would be to continue to add capacity.
But I'll have to note that the big restraint in adding capacity has been ability to hire and develop people and we added 8 units to our fleet this year.
When we reached that decision our conversation -- my conversation with our managers in this business was how many people can we hire not how much equipment can we add.
And I think that's a really critical point to make about all of the service-related part of the supply chain in the U.S.
today.
This is not just about adding equipment it's about adding people.
And the coiled tubing business is one that requires a lot of people because most of those units are operating 24 hours a day.
And so you're not hiring one crew for a unit you're hiring 2.
And if it happens to be working in an area like the Bakken or even in the Marcellus in a lot of cases we don't have those crews locally available to us.
And so we're having to work guys on a rotational schedule which means the coiled tubing unit going into the Bakken doesn't have 2 crews it has 4 crews.
And so that's really the bottleneck in increasing the overall capacity we have from a services standpoint and I think the way we approach that in 2011 is the way we'll approach it in 2012.
What's our confidence level in hiring and developing crews that are at least as good as the crews we have in the field today and we'll back into a number of units.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
And I understand the budget at this point is preliminary.
But do you guys have any idea of how many units you plan to add next year? I've got an idea but I don't know if we're ready to reveal it in detail yet.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Dave just one question for you.
I know it's a small part of the business but I was just interested in your thoughts given the way you see the Gulf of Mexico deepwater unfolding and that is around the stimulation vessels that you inherited I guess on the Baker transaction.
I know both of those were leased and I guess both of those are coming up for expiration here relatively soon.
I know we've seen a lot of migration vessels out of the Gulf of Mexico.
Could you talk a little bit about just kind of the longer-term strategy there for you with the regard to the stem vessel market in the Gulf of Mexico? Yes sure.
I mean first off as far as the migration out of the Gulf of Mexico we undertook an obligation when we bought those assets with the Department of Justice that those vessels would not leave the Gulf of Mexico for at least 2 years from the time of acquisition.
So that's now 14 months I guess and we do -- they are leased vessels these are not vessels that are owned by the company.
And when we carried out this acquisition I think I was pretty straightforward that we weren't buying -- we weren't buying these assets for those 2 boats.
We were much more interested in the tube business.
The vessels were very good assets and great people have worked on those vessels but the vessel market in the Gulf of Mexico has been a bad market for the last 4 or 5 years.
It's not just a result of Macondo and I think part of the reason for that is there's just been too much capacity there.
So as those leases expire on those vessels we'll evaluate where the business is at that time and what our options are going forward as far as workload and commitments to customers.
And if they're not going to be positive producers for us then we'll have to think of other strategies right? I show no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to management for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well I want to thank all of you for participating today and we'll talk to you again next quarter if not before that.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Friday February 24 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to EBITDA which is a non-GAAP financial measure.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation between net income and these items on our website.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thanks Greg and good morning to everyone.
Last night we reported record quarterly revenue of $580 million EBITDA of $166 million and adjusted net income of $54.6 million or $0.67 per diluted share.
Our results were in line with our guidance as we benefited from continued strength in the U.S.
land and international markets.
The Gulf of Mexico experienced a seasonal reduction in shallow water activity for intervention and end-of-life services.
Demand in the U.S.
remained strong for undersupplied product lines such as intervention services and drilling products and services.
Our U.S.
land revenue increased 9% which tripled the 3% increase in the U.S.
land rig count.
Coiled tubing had a record quarter thanks to continued high utilization of existing units and new units that we deployed during the second half of the year.
International growth continued at a strong pace with 12% sequential growth to a record $160 million.
We experienced increased demand for subsea inspection repair and maintenance services as well as snubbing services.
Growth rates during the quarter were highest in Asia Pacific and in the Middle East.
The fourth quarter put a cap on a great year of international growth for the company with revenue expanding 17% to $545 million.
Despite the typical seasonal slowdown in the shallow water Gulf the deepwater market remained stable.
That was evident by the fact that the revenue from the Drilling Products and Services segment in the Gulf increased 8% thanks to the group's exposure to deepwater drilling.
From a margin perspective our overall margin was down slightly excluding the transaction-related expenses due to the impact of reduced Gulf of Mexico activity in the Subsea and Well Enhancement and Marine segments.
These were partially offset by strong margins from activity in other geographic markets.
Let me discuss the sale of our Marine segment before turning the call over to Robert.
Liftboats were a part of our core business when we focused solely on shallow water services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our growth strategy has expanded beyond our historic Gulf of Mexico roots and capital has been directed to other products and services that fulfill our evolving geographic expansion and investment return profile.
I want to thank the management and employees of the Marine division for their dedication to customer service and safety through the years.
Now Robert will walk you through some of the financial details and I'll come back to discuss our guidance and outlook.
With that I'll turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the third quarter of 2011.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment revenue was $393 million a sequential increase of 4% and income from operations excluding transaction expenses was $54 million a decline of 3%.
In U.S.
land revenue in this segment increased 11% to $170 million.
In this market area we experienced higher demand across most of our intervention services with the largest increases coming from coiled tubing and wireline services and remedial pressure pumping services.
Coiled tubing revenue increased 20% over the third quarter.
As you will recall coiled tubing revenue increased 17% in the third quarter so we saw a tremendous growth in the back half of the year after deploying 8 new units.
We also had a nice increase in wireline services and pressure control services.
Incremental margins in U.S.
land increased in excess of 50% significantly influenced by growth in our coiled tubing business.
International revenue was $130 million which represents an increase of 18%.
Most of the growth came from Hallin Marine which had high activity levels in Australia and Indonesia during the fourth quarter.
This business has been getting very good vessel utilization and day rates are starting to increase from the first half of the year.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue declined 15% to $109 million.
In addition to the decline in shallow water activity that Dave mentioned earlier we had less revenue from completion services primarily related to the fact that we had high product sales in the third quarter.
Lower margins were primarily a function of the decline in Gulf of Mexico revenue levels.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $170 million and income from operation was $44 million which represents a 4% sequential increase in revenue and a 2% sequential increase in income from operations.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% to approximately $44 million due to an increase in rentals of premium drill pipe and stabilization equipment as the market continues to experience a modest return of drilling and completion activity in the deepwater.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenue in this segment increased each quarter in 2011 reflecting the recovery in deepwater drilling.
U.S.
land revenue increased 5% sequentially to approximately $79 million as a result of increased demand for accommodations premium drill pipe and stabilization equipment.
In the Marine segment revenue decreased 28% to $18 million with operating income of $400 000 excluding the impairment charges detailed in our earnings press release.
Seasonality and lack of utilization of the large liftboats especially 265-foot class vessels hurt our performance.
There are a couple of projects for the 265 that ended earlier than expected in the fourth quarter and that has hampered our efforts to secure new projects at a time when demand was seasonally lower.
Liftboat utilization decreased to 62% from 77%.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the year the face value of our debt exclusive of discounts was approximately $1.7 billion.
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the year was 1.4x as compared to 1.5x at the end of the third quarter and our net debt to total capital was 36%.
Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter were $178 million and we ended up the year with capital expenditures of $508 million.
From a modeling perspective in 2012 we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $620 million to $640 million.
At this point we have -- excuse me for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $535 million to $555 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $125 million to $140 million.
Weighted average share count is approximately 126 million in the first quarter and approximately 157.2 million for the remainder of the year.
We anticipate a 37% effective income tax rate in 2012 as a result of higher U.S.
income content.
Because the first quarter will only include Complete for about 7 weeks or so we want to provide a few modeling metrics for the first quarter.
We think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $140 million to $150 million and for DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $102 million to $110 million.
We also anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $31 million to $35 million.
By way of review with respect to the Complete merger.
Total consideration was $2.9 billion based on the stock price of $30.90 which was Superior's closing price on February 7 2012.
The consideration included $554 million in cash and $2.4 billion in stock.
We spent approximately $4.1 million in the fourth quarter related to acquisition costs.
Additional transaction expenses in closing costs will be incurred in the first quarter of 2012.
In connection with this acquisition SPN entered into the following financing arrangements: $800 million of 7 1/8 senior notes with a 10-year tenor.
The net proceeds of this issuance were restricted to the acquisition of Complete Production Services.
Interest expense on this piece of debt for the fourth quarter amounted to $4.1 million.
We also closed at the date of the merger a $1.0 billion credit facility which includes $400 million of term loans amortizing $5 million per quarter beginning June 30 2012 and a $600 million revolving credit facility.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the year.
Okay.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release guidance for 2012 is in the range of $3.26 to $3.60.
This includes the contributions from Complete starting on February 8 which would be recorded in the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment and contributions from Superior's equity investment in Dynamic Offshore Holdings until the sale of Dynamic to SandRidge Energy closes which is assumed to occur in the second quarter of 2012.
The earnings guidance does not include any contribution from the Marine segment or transaction expenses associated with the acquisition of Complete or the sale of the Marine segment.
I believe the 2012 consensus estimate for Superior's stand-alone was $3.08 after we announced the Complete transaction.
The midpoint of our 2012 earnings guidance would suggest that the contribution from Complete is accretive to that estimate by 10%.
However we think that that is a conservative view of accretion because the contribution from Complete is partially offset by a content change in our business mix for 2012.
Due to pending transactions the Marine segment is not included in our guidance and income from our equity method investment is included for just one quarter.
Although we typically do not provide quarterly guidance we will provide it for the first quarter of 2012 due to the number of moving pieces related to the timing of the Complete acquisition and the sale of the Marine segment.
We believe our first quarter 2012 earnings will be in the range of $0.56  to $0.62 per share.
This includes a partial quarter of income from Complete but a full quarter of interest expense associated with the acquisition.
From an operation standpoint the biggest challenge in Q1 from Q4 of 2011 is a full quarter of seasonality in the Gulf of Mexico and Southeast Asia which we think reduces our earnings by about $0.08 from the fourth quarter.
We estimate that about 2/3 of that seasonality is in the Gulf of Mexico.
The drop-off in activity from seasonality this year is not expected to be as severe as it was in the first quarter of 2011.
As you may recall last year our Q1 earnings were down to $0.19 in the first quarter from $0.42 in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our 2012 guidance is largely predicated on a mix of internal execution and external market factors including: capital deployment labor additions seasonality and continued improvement in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
While we think that the U.S.
rig count average in the fourth quarter of 2012 will be 3% to 7% higher than the Q4 2011 average of 1 973 rigs rig count growth is probably one of the less important factors in our guidance as the supply chain remains tight and demand for our focused product offering such as coiled tubing fluid management and premium drill pipe are still very strong.
The rig count is one barometer of activity.
What the rig count does not capture is the completions backlog the increase in service intensity and longer horizontal completions the increase in fluid management requirements and intensity and intervention projects that have not been carried out due to tightness in the supply chain.
To be successful in meeting the demand challenges in the U.S.
we must execute for our customers deploy capital in the right markets at the right time and crew our new equipment.
Those challenges are far more important than the rig count growth.
Let me discuss our outlook for 2012 by geography and I'll start with the U.S.
land market.
We think our established presence in the Eagle Ford Mid-Continent Permian and Bakken will provide continued growth for us in 2012.
These markets are still undersupplied for most of the services that we offer and I expect that we will see new asset additions and potentially asset transfers from the dry gas basins to these markets during the course  of the year.
We strongly believe that the overall trend of our customers migrating more of their activities to oil and liquids-rich basins will continue over the long term and we believe that this will create upward momentum in the market in 2012.
Now as 2012 progresses we do expect to experience some slowdown in activity in the dry gas basins specifically in the Marcellus and in the Haynesville.
We do not have pressure pumping fleets in the Haynesville.
We have 4 fleets in the Marcellus 2 of which are under term contracts.
We also have coiled tubing assets in both the Marcellus and the Haynesville but demand has remained strong for coiled in both these markets.
We think the rig count growth will of course take place in the oil and liquids-rich areas.
We are fortunate to already have infrastructure established in these areas.
So we know the market we have established customers and we're able to add assets in those areas with a minimal fixed cost impact.
We're confident that the capital equipment additions that we have planned for the U.S.
which I will speak to in just a moment are focused in product lines that are in short supply and will likely remain in short supply during 2012.
However we will be cautious of asset additions and product lines such as horizontal well fracturing where the supply demand balance question is a bit less certain.
Now let me talk a little bit about Gulf of Mexico.
In the Gulf of Mexico there are a lot of reasons to be optimistic.
Overall it is still a recovering market but one that will continue to advance as the permit flow has improved.
We expect to see deepwater activity continue to increase during the course of 2012.
I think that we'll see about a 50% increase in the overall numbers of rigs drilling for oil and gas in the deepwater market.
This is a subset you'll  recall of the overall Gulf of Mexico deepwater rig count which tends to include rigs carrying out other activities aside from deepwater drilling.
It's a nice sizeable increase still below pre-Macondo levels.
But nonetheless a 50% increase in that market will be very good for us because we have very nice exposure to the deepwater market pre-Macondo and we've got even better exposure now thanks to the sand control assets that we acquired from Baker Hughes in August of 2010.
I think we are also going to see better activity from some of our shelf oil operators working with a very strong oil price and good drilling prospects during 2012.
I expect that several of those independent operators will increase their activities during the course of the year.
Now let's talk about international.
I believe our product line breadth and experience in both land and offshore markets positions us in a very unique way to capitalize and deliver on what we believe will be an expanding international market in 2012.
We will continue to execute on our strategy of targeting specific countries and regions for investment.
We're not going to expand in every geographic market.
Our criteria includes markets that are mature and expanding introducing product lines that are most in need in that particular market at that moment in time and then following on with the full breadth of our product line into those targeted international markets.
Australia Brazil Columbia West Africa and other parts of Asia Pacific are markets that will continue to receive investment as they did in 2011.
I expect to add Saudi Arabia and Argentina as new markets in 2012.
We think that the unconventional resource play in Argentina is going to be a great opportunity for us.
Over time I believe Argentina will have the same kind of service intensity and extraction of those shale resources to what we see in the U.S.: long horizontal wells pressure pumping opportunities coiled tubing opportunities and premium pipe opportunities.
We expect that Saudi Arabia will be a multiservice line expansion for us in 2012 as we begin activities to support Aramco from a pressure control standpoint contracts that we've already been awarded and from a well control standpoint.
We also see several well intervention opportunities in Saudi Arabia.
That will bring us critical mass.
They'll cause us to have a significant facility investment in Saudi Arabia during the course of 2012 which lays the groundwork for future expansion in 2013 and beyond following a very similar path to what you see in Brazil.
Now let me talk through a little bit of our 2012 capital expenditure plans.
Our press release provided a 2012 capital expenditure range of $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We anticipate spending about 70% in the U.S.
land market 20% of that in the international market and 10% of it in the Gulf of Mexico.
From a segment standpoint about 80% of that goes to Subsea and Well Enhancement and 20% to Drilling Products and Services.
I expect about 70% of our capital budget to be expansionary 20% in maintenance and 10% for facilities.
Some of the major capital expenditure items in the plan include the following: First off 1 million feet of premium drill pipe with approximately 45% of that pipe earmarked for the North American market areas and 35% for international the remainder going to the Gulf of Mexico.
The rental segment particularly premium pipe continued to generate the highest returns in our business.
And in addition to opportunities that we see via international expansion the U.S.
horizontal market demand for pipe continues to be extremely robust.
Next we'll add 18 coiled tubing units to our fleet including about 10 new revenue-generating units for the North American market areas.
We will have a few coiled tubing units that go into the U.S.
this year to provide maintenance time for our existing fleet and we expect opportunities to place several units in the international market during 2012.
Our international capital spending should increase about 50% over 2011 with a focus on rental tools intervention and remedial pumping assets.
In addition to the international coiled tubing units that I mentioned before we have about $50 million in well intervention assets directed toward our targeted international expansion countries.
If opportunities develop in the international markets during the course of 2012 that require a CapEx beyond what we have budgeted then we will redirect spending to these priority opportunities while maintaining our stated capital budget.
The single largest investment in the U.S.
this year will be in the water management business.
With horizontal wells placing a greater burden on the water management infrastructure and as regulatory requirements increase the accountability for tracking water used in the field for drilling and completions we are very well positioned to provide our customers a holistic and integrated environmental fluids-handling service.
We have about 170 000 horsepower of pressure pumping capacity to be deployed in the oil and liquids-rich basins during the year in North America.
170 000 is less than the 230 000 hydraulic horsepower addition that was originally discussed by Complete for 2012 fleet additions.
The slowdown in completion activity in the dry gas area is causing us to take a more cautious and prudent approach to capacity additions in pressure pumping and these additions will of course be targeted to the oil and liquids-rich areas where our fracturing services are already established.
We have a 2012 delivery of the Compact Semi-Submersible vessel which has been under construction for the past 2 years and it should enter the market around the fourth quarter of 2012.
And finally we've got a significant part of our capital budget that's devoted to oil spill capping and containment systems for use in various international markets around the world.
Our North American capital investment is designed to preserve a similar revenue and earnings mix by service line as would be reflected in 2011 pro forma results.
I have described diversity as being an important element of our North American exposure and we will continue to be driven to have a balance in our earnings base that is not overly weighted to any particular product line.
Any preference that we currently have for weighting would be to premium drill pipe coiled tubing and water management.
We have a very unique advantage in Superior related to flexibility that we have in capital spending.
As we see changes in the marketplace we can and will respond to that because our lead time for many of the things that we'll purchase is relatively short.
We also believe that our capital spending plans for 2012 take advantage of the best near-term earnings impact and best return on investment options that we have available to us.
In closing I'd like to say 2011 was a tremendous year at Superior Energy Services and I want to thank our management team and employees for delivering a great year.
Now our attentions are turned to the future and building on the momentum that our transformational combination with Complete provides for us.
Our integration activities in the U.S.
are proceeding smoothly under the leadership of Brian Moore formerly Complete's Chief Operating Officer.
Our primary integration focus is in coiled tubing and the electric line businesses and so far these activities are going very well.
We are strongly motivated and organized to accelerate our plans for international expansion and we expect to initiate multiservice line operations in 3 or 4 new countries during 2012.
These businesses in addition to our current efforts in Brazil and Australia provide the backbone for continued growth at Superior.
And I think now we'll turn the line over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of James West with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dave on the international CapEx that you're allocating for 2012 as a percentage I guess about 20% a little bit lower than I thought it would be although it's still pretty big in overall dollar terms.
And I know it's up some 50% year-over-year.
Is that the kind of max amount of capital that you could put to work internationally? Or are your various regional managers screaming for more and you're just waiting to make sure you have the right opportunities? Well a primary part of our funding in 2012 is towards the first 2 countries that we focused on from an expansion standpoint that's Brazil and Australia.
And the way you need to think about these country expansions our first step is to hire and bring in the management team.
Their capital investment intensity is going to be the greatest in the second third and fourth year after they've been out there.
And that's kind of the point that we're entering now for Brazil and Australia.
As I stated earlier we hope to add 3 or 4 countries to that list in 2012.
Their investment is going to be most significant in 2013 and 2014.
So we are funding the opportunities that our managers there develop.
I don't know that just throwing more CapEx to it in 2012 is necessarily going to get us anywhere.
We could stage this and do it in a such a way that we're making investments that are strong from a near-term earnings impact as well as from a return standpoint.
So we're not starving those guys for capital at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then it looks to me like you're going to have -- after you get the proceeds from Dynamic from the liftboats sale I think you're still owed a little bit of money from BP possibly for the wreck removal project that your cash balance should be up nicely.
Is that going to be used to fund CapEx or do you think there's perhaps deleveraging or maybe share buybacks that you might allocate some cash towards? The capital that budget that we stated for 2012 is a maximum.
We do not expect to exceed that.
So cash from operations free cash from operations during the course of the year cash from some of the sales of these assets we'll be looking at different strategic alternatives over the course of the next few months.
Our target right now -- really our focus has been on ensuring the integration activities with Complete go well.
We're now beginning to spend a bit of time looking at strategies for that cash during the course of the year.
And over the next few months I'll be speaking to the board about those alternatives and decide what we want to do.
And once we make those decisions we'll let you know.
And our next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dave if I did my math right then with a pressure pumping capacity addition of 170 000 horsepower you would be at about 600 000 horsepower when you complete your expansion? I think your math is right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well so on that can you describe what the contract situation is with regard to that 600 000 horsepower? How much is term? And how much is working in -- the spot market? Yes sure.
So of the fleets that Complete had in place at the close of the acquisition which was 11 -- or 15 11 of those fleets are under a term contract today.
The fleets that come in during the course of 2012 I know that 2 of them are contracted now under similar types of term contracts to what the 11 pre-existing fleets have.
I would expect that gaining term contracts for additional fleets as the year goes on in 2012 is going to be kind of rough.
There's a lot of capacity that's out there in the market.
So we're fortunate that the bulk of the Complete fleet is under a term contract.
There are none of those contracts that expire during 2012.
In fact if my recollection is correct the first contracts don’t begin expiring until about midyear 2013 and many of them go out into 2014.
So that's kind of the status of their fleets from a contracted standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Okay.
So Complete already reported fourth quarter.
When they did they clearly had a very good operating performance and didn't have any of the issues that we saw with some other companies that were moving fleets around from dry gas to liquids-rich basins.
Is there anything -- I mean you do have some fracturing fleets in the Marcellus or you might be moving things around.
Is there any issues that come up that you foresee with regard to reconfiguring your supply chain or moving fleets around that might impact your profitability in that area? Yes.
So I mean clearly the pressure is going to be in the dry gas area.
It's a Marcellus issue and it's a Haynesville issue.
We don't have any fracturing fleets in the Haynesville.
As it turns out that's kind of an advantage now because I'm sure those companies that have capacity in the Haynesville will be looking to relocate those fleets.
And we all understand the types of inefficiencies that go along with fleet relocation.
We don't have to worry about that in the Haynesville.
Of the capacity we have in the Marcellus 2 of those fleets are under term contract.
The other 2 fleets 1 is committed and the other's been kind of in a call-out market and quite frankly our budget reflects that that fleet's going to be pretty slow during 2012.
At this point we don't have a plan to relocate it.
Our preference would be not to relocate it understanding the inefficiencies from a cost standpoint that you have in doing that.
As the year progresses if we see a real good opportunity to put that fleet to work somewhere else we may reconsider it.
But our plans don't account for relocation at this point of that single-frac fleet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good color.
Just finally then on coiled tubing you mentioned that that pricing dynamic is not under pressure.
And so you'll have -- is it -- on a combined basis is it 100 coiled tubing units now plus 18 that you're adding? So we've got 84 in the U.S.
fleet as of today.
We'll be adding 18 but not all 18 of those are going into the U.S.
as I described before.
I think the way -- if you want to think about this for your modeling purposes it's a net addition of about 10 that will occur during the course of the year revenue-generating coiled fleets.
I mentioned that we will probably have a few coiled fleets that go into the market in 2012 that are going to give us an opportunity to circulate some units out and do some major maintenance.
And we need to do that.
These coiled units are going out on locations.
They're not seeing the shop very frequently.
So that's part of what we've built into that capital addition.
I think as we -- if you think about December 2012 think about 94 coiled tubing units that are working in fleet.
And our next question is from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> We've heard a lot this earnings season about interruptions in the industry in pressure pumping due to lack of ability to get guar acid proppant whatever.
But we haven't really heard anybody talk about interruptions in demand for milling out bridge clogs or screen outs or anything like that for coiled units.
Can you -- and it sounds to me like you're running flat out in coil based on your commentary.
Can you tell me why that's the case? No.
I'll just tell you we're running flat out in coil.
I mean from a supply standpoint -- part of what you maybe -- I'm not really sure give me a little bit better direction here Joe.
What are you looking for? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well coil is more or less married at the hip to frac at this point.
So when you see an interruption in frac utilization which we have seen I would think you would see an interruption in coil utilization.
But so far I haven't seen it.
Yes we certainly haven't seen it either.
Some of that may be the way that coil gets contracted and committed.
A lot of those are monthly -- month-to-month deals.
And so they don't necessarily contemplate a change in the job count for fracturing if you will.
They're more tied to a monthly contract whether there's a frac going on or not right? Because really what those coiled units are doing they're going out to wells they're prepping the wells before the frac fleet shows up they're washing out proppant when there's a screen out and then they're drilling out plugs.
And the way they're so often utilized today is they're basically on it from one day to the next sitting on a location either carrying out one of those operations or waiting to do it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then accommodations was a little light in international rental tools.
Could you give us some more color on that? I mean the accommodations business internationally overall it's not a big part of our overall mix.
It's -- but it's -- I can't think of a reason specifically why it was down during the course of the quarter.
Overall rentals were good internationally.
That business was somewhat sideways from Q3 and Q4 but it wasn't any big significant change.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked a little bit about the water handling business which is obviously getting a lot more attention in the industry.
When you talk about water handling do you mean anything greater than just hauling injection or is that pretty much the business as you envision it? Well I mean the water management business is certainly one that it has evolved and is continuing to evolve.
And I think one of the advantages that Complete has in this business is that they kind of touch the water in every aspect.
And they haul the water they can store the water we've got ability to dispose the water we've got ability to recycle water.
And probably most importantly going forward we've got the ability and technology as a result of handling it in each of those stages to track the water.
And from a regulatory standpoint we think that's going to become one of the biggest things that we do and factors to that business going forward.
So the fact that we participate in every way during that overall chain of events in the water management cycle I think puts us in a kind of a unique position to supply customers with the kind of information that we think they're going to need to supply from a regulatory standpoint.
So it is more than just hauling.
And it's more than just disposal.
It's more than just recycling and it's more than just storage.
It's kind all of those things put together.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just housekeeping for Robert.
Robert I didn't catch current debt and cash levels.
Could you supply us with those please? Yes.
Current debt is about $2.2 billion and cash today is around $200 million.
And our next question is from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave by the way your stock's been acting you'd think 50% of your business is pressure pumping and I know that more like 15% of it is so it's not a huge component of your business but it is the thing you're getting all the questions on.
So I'm going to continue down that path a little bit.
Recognizing of course it's not a huge part of what you're focusing on going forward.
How worried are you for the margins in the areas that are not contracted -- for the fleets that are not contracted? And secondly does that -- how long do you think this the pressure on pressure pumping margins lasts? Is it just sand and guar? Is it too much horsepower? And do -- does a fleet attrition solve this thing maybe sooner than it has in the past? That was a number of different questions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes indeed.
But -- well I think you have a little experience in this area if I recall so you're the guy I want to ask.
All right Marshall where -- it's -- where we will experience margin compression next year in fracturing is in the Marcellus.
And it's not across the board in Marcellus it's with that part of our fleet which is not contracted.
There's no question about that.
And it's built into our budget that we experience margin compression in the Marcellus.
Margin compression in other areas would be driven primarily by cost inflation.
And I fully expect that we'll see some inflationary factors during the course of 2012.
We've got a bit of an offset here in that where we're putting new fracturing fleets are in places where we already have existing facilities.
And so one would normally think that the incremental margins that come in with those activities as a result of not having to go out and build a bunch of infrastructure are kind of better.
So really what you see there is you see kind of flat margins year-over-year overall in the fracturing business if you exclude the one fleet we have in the Marcellus that is going to see low margins because it's underutilized.
As far as the supply chain goes listen as has been clear I think for the last couple of years the supply chain overall in the fracturing business has been extremely tight.
Complete experienced some of that on the equipment side with fluid ends during the course of 2011.
You heard some of the other fracturing companies talk about it in terms of proppant and guar and other things.
In Complete's case they're a bit fortunate in that some of their contracts have customers providing for proppant and chemicals.
And so that buffers them a bit from problems in the supply chain.
But everybody's got a bit of exposure there.
I think this is what you can look forward to.
That supply chain has been building out during the course of the last couple of years.
And as we've seen with equipment and fluid ends it does work itself out.
You didn't hear a lot of people talking about fluid end problems during Q4 whereas if you go back and think about the prior 5 or 6 quarters you heard people talk a lot about fluid ends.
So I think it's just an example of how as that supply chain matures the potential interruptions begin to fade.
And I would expect that we'll begin to see that or continue to see that during the course of 2012.
As far as overall capacity goes there's no doubt going to be attrition that occurs as we've got so many of these fracturing pumps which are exposed to extreme work environments today be it in the form of high pressure or just in general utilization based on the numbers of stages they're treating on a daily basis.
So attrition is going to take care of some of this fleet.
But I think more than anything as we continue to see expanded activities in horizontal drilling in the oil areas that's going to press demand.
And maybe one day we'll get a better gas price and so some of the activity in the Marcellus and Haynesville comes back.
I'm not counting on that this year by the way but maybe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's excellent color.
And last question for me you gave a good overview of CapEx where it's going geographically and expansion versus maintenance capital.
You also went through kind of what you're spending on.
But give us some sense of the kind of the percent breakdown.
I mean is 1 million feet of drill pipe is that half your CapEx or is that 20% of CapEx? And same kind with coiled tubing and water management how does that break out if I were to look at a pie chart of your spending? I wish I could spend half of our capital budget on drill pipe.
I'm sure [indiscernible] does too by the way.
But no it doesn't represent 50% of our capital budget.
In fact in all 3 of those areas premium drill pipe coiled tubing water management I mean think of them in terms of less than 15% of capital budget in each of those individual areas not collectively.
And our next question is from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One sort of more big picture.
My sense was 6 months ago before -- maybe a little more than that before CTX deal your sort of long-term goal was to sort of be 1/3 Gulf 1/3 U.S.
land and 1/3 international.
And obviously that's changed short term and then you have the Marine asset sales as well.
How should we think about that 3 years out? I mean I know international growth is important but how do you see that evolving? Well I mean I think it depends greatly on how much more the North American market continues to evolve.
I mean first off you can kind of put Gulf of Mexico off to the side.
Gulf of Mexico I don't think will ever be 1/3 of our revenue.
And Steve I want to walk you back as well because when the company began -- first began talking about that balance in revenue 1/3 1/3 1/3 was several years ago when we were a much bigger Gulf of Mexico company.
In fact really the strategy was to become a more diversified company in the U.S.
land and international markets.
So it was a strategy point I think that the company has grown past from a maturity standpoint.
But let me get back to your question.
I mean we see long term the best growth opportunities in this company being international.
I think there's no question about it.
It's the part of the market that we are today least represented in.
It's the part of our market share that is most immature.
And so long term international is a place where we see our best growth opportunity.
That being said the North American market has changed quite a bit you'll have to admit in the last couple of years.
And as the North American market continues to evolve we position ourselves to be a big player in that and we want to continue to participate at a significant level.
So a lot of your question depends on what happens to the North American market over the next 2 to 3 years.
And do we see even further increases in overall oil drilling? Do we see new oil basins and liquid-rich basins which drive our customers' investment? If they do then we're going to follow that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's fair.
And listen we're big believers in North America.
So I don't disagree with what you're doing.
Just to follow up on that.
I mean I'm really pleased with our exposure in the North American market.
Remember it is the largest single service oil and gas service market the world.
And I won't apologize for our presence in it.
And as it grows -- as it has grown this company has grown.
And it's been the single biggest contributor to our overall earnings increase over the past 2 years.
And listen I hope it is over the next 2 years as well.
Research Division</strong> As I look at -- just so I understand the dynamics a little bit the well abandonment and decommissioning business what does the Marine sale mean for that? It has no impact on that.
I mean the company's strategy many years ago was related to the liftboats.
And this was described to me when I came onboard the liftboat was thought of as a taxi cab.
It was taxi cab that carry out other services be it a plug-in abandonment spread or coiled tubing spread or wireline unit whatever it may be.
And there was a point in time where those buying decisions as far as those distinct assets go were grouped together by customers.
That's changed in the last few years and our customers really don't lump those decisions together the way they used to.
So not having liftboats has no impact on our ability to sell and service the other parts of our product line.
And our next question is from the line of William Conroy with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave 2 for you.
The first one is to the extent that you're still involved in relocating your assets and I'm thinking of the combined companies obviously how far along do you think you are with the process? Or do you think as you're looking out for your view for 2012 are you most of the way there? Are you done? Just can you give us an update there? Well asset relocation hasn't been a big part of what we've done to this point.
I think -- let me break this down a little bit for you.
There are 2 basins that we're talking about that you would look to as potential places where you may relocate assets from.
One is the Marcellus.
And I think I stated that really we would -- we do not have plans to relocate at this point in time the one fleet that we have up there that's been working on call-out.
We will leave it in the Marcellus unless we see an opportunity somewhere else out in the U.S.
market that is just too good for us to pass up.
We don't have a plan to relocate coiled tubing assets from the Marcellus at this point nor any other assets.
In the Haynesville I fully expect and have been waiting for the opportunity to transfer assets mainly coiled tubing units pump down units and frac stacks as the rig count has deteriorated and has been deteriorating for the last 14 months.
We have not relocated any of those assets yet either.
That market I fully expect will be coming down as we work through the completions backlog.
And as we do we are counting on taking some of those assets into the Permian Basin and South Texas and Mid-Continent as the year progresses.
I want you to keep in mind the assets that I mentioned.
Relocating a coiled tubing unit or a pump down unit or a frac stack is a lot less complicated than relocating a frac fleet.
And so we really are not planning on significant cost disruptions when we do reach a point where those assets are relocated.
I fully expect it to happen.
It just hadn't happened yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And second one not completely fair considering how long you've owned Complete but I'll throw it out there anyway.
You didn't do the acquisition for cost savings.
But in your guidance that you've put out there for the combined companies are you assuming any cost savings between the 2 companies or can you just give us some color there? Yes.
Well I mean your recollection is certainly correct.
We didn't do the acquisition in this combination from a cost efficiency standpoint.
We do understand there is a small level of corporate costs which doesn't need to be duplicated between the 2 companies.
And that is -- elimination of that duplication is included in the overall budget.
But I'd tell you this it's insignificant.
It's less than $20 million.
And it's embedded within that savings embedded within our SG&amp;A.
Yes so it's -- that is the only area of consolidation benefit that we've incorporated in the budget.
Now if you listened to me over the last few months since we announced the deal is that the full extent of what we'll be able to accomplish as far as consolidation? I have no idea I really don't.
I mean there may be some opportunities.
And I think there will be some opportunities in the field as we combine facilities at some point in time for some type of overall efficiency gain.
But you've got to remember most of the Complete facilities in the U.S.
are chock-a-block.
They've been busy and they've been adding assets to them.
Most of the Superior's facilities in the U.S.
are in the same state.
And so you don't have this real obvious opportunity to go take everything that may be in Odessa Texas and move it on to one yard.
We're going to have to go locate new property if we're going to do that build a new facility.
And so estimating what the benefit is from that standpoint in cost efficiency is really I think just an exercise in futility at this point.
And if so I gave you a lot of verbiage there but the answer to your question is no.
We have not embedded any other cost efficiency other than that minor corporate cost that I mentioned.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Quick question is around DPS.
Just trying to gauge growth.
I mean you've also been pointing out Dave that the rental business internationally is part of the best entrée to new markets.
If we take the 350 000 or so feet of pipe that you're looking to deploy over the year internationally how does that compare to what's currently out there just to kind of gauge the growth rate that we're looking at? Blake I don't know that I can answer that question specifically for you.
I'll give you what I think though.
I mean it's -- we're talking about a fleet addition from a pipe standpoint that's in the 10% to 20% range.
It's not 50% or 60% from that standpoint.
But don't even hold me specifically to those numbers because I couldn't tell you off the top of my head exactly what our number of feet of pipe we have in international markets is.
And just kind of going back to what you said rental anytime that we can carry out an international expansion with rental being at the tip of the spear we'd love to do it because its fixed cost profile makes it such a low-risk expansion opportunity for us.
Not every market affords you that opportunity but it certainly would be what we'd like to do.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And it just struck me the pretty large number perhaps against the installed base just curious.
If we look at the pipe to be deployed in the U.S.
are we still seeing a strong trend towards displacing the pipe string on working rigs or will lot of that be tied to what we see in the new builds? Some of it's tied to new builds some of it is putting strings of pipe where API pipe is attempted to be used today just because the supply premium pipe is not there.
What we hadn't seen yet is we hadn't seen a migration of any significance to different sizes.
But we've still got operators that are utilizing basically the same size same property drill pipe that they were using a year ago.
At some point in time our operators are going to get an idea to change hole size.
And when they do that then we'll be headed in a different direction on drill pipe buy a different sized drill pipe.
We haven't seen that yet.
So what you see going in at 2012 is really to satisfy demand in markets that we've opened for premium drill pipe and it's primarily going to be displacing either API pipe or something else that was being used.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly you mentioned in BPS accommodations kind of led the commentary.
I was wondering if you're seeing anything interesting there in terms of is that business still just very well site oriented or is it changing to anything longer term in nature as we head into some of these basins that have very high permanent housing demand? From our standpoint the only thing that we're addressing is well site and drill site accommodations.
And that's what's embedded in this budget that's from a strategic standpoint.
That's all we're attempting to address at this point.
And our next question is from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First question is a follow-up to Marshall's question and your response to the fleet attrition on the frac business.
How much horsepower would you guys expect to retire this year? I don't believe that there is any horsepower that's expected to be retired from the legacy Complete fleet this year.
I mean obviously as time goes on John that changes but I have not heard them mention anything about retirement of assets.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
I hate to keep beating you up on pressure pumping but like everyone else has.
But when you -- I think most people have recognized the fact that there's pricing pressures now in the frac market.
And my question is actually on coiled tubing because you're starting to see the same level of new build activity that we witnessed with pressure pumping.
And I'm just wondering if you see a similar trend emerging later this year in terms of the pricing opportunities pressures within coiled tubing.
And if not why would we not see that? I don't see it in 2012.
I mean I think that even with the fleet additions that have been discussed for 2012 I think we're still going to be undersupplied for coiled tubing units on completions.
And so what happens next? Because let's talk through this a little bit because you have -- clearly you keep building coiled tubing units and unless there's significant changes in ours or your market assumptions for 2012 and beyond there's going to be a point in time where that market comes more into balance.
I think what we're going to see as the next step is not so much of price deterioration.
It's going to be a return of some of the coiled tubing fleet to doing intervention work which if you've heard me speak about this in the past that's not such a bad thing.
I mean that's a different business model than coiled tubing is a completion tool for sure.
It's one that when you doing intervention work you have the opportunity to provide tools that are used on the end of that coiled tubing unit.
You have the opportunity to provide chemicals and treatments that are sold to be pumped through that coil.
It's a business that's something more than just renting a coiled tubing unit and a crew which is in essence what we do in the completions market today.
So is that a price change? No it's not really a price change.
It's just -- it's another market opportunity that develops because our intervention activities with coiled tubing today are so low.
Do you follow me? And our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'll take one more run at international CapEx.
The CSS budgets have been pretty chunky.
Is there a way to get the '11 and '12 international CapEx figures maybe ex Hallin? Don't have them in front of me that are broken out that way Dan.
It's something that we could think about in the future.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is the -- let me -- the simpler way is the CSS spending up or down to complete at this year versus '11? Overall it's close to flat.
I mean we've had -- this is now 2012 being kind of a third year of construction spend on the CSS project.
And you described it as lumpy.
It's lumpy from one quarter to the next but annually it's been fairly -- it's been fairly consistent.
That's roughly $120 million overall investment.
So overall my numbers aren't going to be perfect in 2010 and 2011 on spend on the CSS but it's been roughly $40 million $45 million a year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then as a second on the Gulf of Mexico rental tools side the revenue rebound there has been pretty healthy.
You guys are already within eyesight of kind of your Gulf of Mexico rental top line in first half '10 sort of pre-Macondo.
Have you picked up share or is there anything we're seeing there that's gotten you up to a pretty robust level here even before you talk about the forecast Dave for incremental deepwater rig adds heading through '12? Yes well I'd love to -- are you just looking at the rental segment for that? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just rentals not bringing in the completion side.
Obviously completion tools has the net adds since the pre-Macondo.
I'd love to tell you we've gained market share but we had equipment on 31 of the 33 rigs that were drilling in deepwater pre-Macondo.
So it must be more related to mix which will happen.
I mean mix can be affected by different pipe sizes different landing string sizes and also different metallurgy within those types of pipe.
So it's probably more mix within the product line than anything else.
And our next question is from the line of Matt McGeary with Sentinel Investments.
Inc.</strong> Just one last one on the international CapEx.
You talked about Argentina specifically.
Could you just sort of flesh out a little bit what you're -- I know it's early innings in your thinking down there but that's a market that hasn't been so kind to everyone over the years and just sort of thinking about what -- I just want to know what you're thinking about that market and how you approach a market like that? Well I think what we're thinking is that it's a market that will develop a demand for the same types of services that we provide in the shale areas of the U.S.
today which for us it kind starts with coiled tubing and premium drill pipe in all likelihood involves now with our acquisition pressure pumping.
And so that's kind of how I think about it from a product line standpoint.
The Argentina market is one that certainly over the last 40 years or at least last 20 years that I've been involved in the Argentina market like many markets it goes through kinds of ebbs and flows and it's for the past 3 or 4 years been in a difficult spot.
But I think with tremendous attention that's being placed on the unconventional resource in the country and with the types of customers which are being attracted to the market it seems pretty clear to me that over the course of the next few years we're going to see that market in a stage of expansion.
And it seems like a good place for us to be.
And our final question is from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Dave I'm curious how acquisitions fit into your CapEx budget for '12 and specifically if you have any interest in adding more pumping equipment for your acquisition to gain scale in any one basin? Yes.
Well I mean we don't budget for acquisitions.
And so there are no -- there is no element of acquisition within our capital budget.
I think as I commented we have reduced really the level of capital spending.
And I should say this is no reduction that's driven by me.
Brian Moore and I have discussed over the last several months and Brian reached a conclusion on his own that reducing overall capital additions in pressure pumping would be a wise move in 2012.
And so that's what's being carried out.
So we'll kind of cut back on what we're putting out there in 2012.
To go out and do asset acquisitions I think would be kind of counter to that overall strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
What about -- is there a desire to kind of concentrate the equipment more maybe to get a little bit better scale in some basins you have -- you're a little bit longer-term believer in or...? Yes well I mean I think that is part of our strategy in 2012.
And in fact the fleet additions that do occur in 2012 are concentrating our position and improving our concentrated position in the Eagle Ford and Mid-Continent the Permian Basin and in the Bakken.
Those are certainly places that we still see demand growth.
We're still being asked by customers for additional capacity in those markets.
And I think that if you think about the overall U.S.
market in total they're probably the basins that have the longest legs going forward.
So that's clearly part of our strategy.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you all very much for joining us and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT conferencing.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Wednesday April 27 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein with Superior Energy Services.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to EBITDA and also adjusted net income from continuing operations both of which are non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company does provide a reconciliation between net income and EBITDA on its website and net income and adjusted net income from continuing operations in the earnings release.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
Robert Taylor reminded me yesterday that my 2-year anniversary with the company is coming up this weekend and I'm here to tell you that there were no cupcakes by the coffee machine this morning or special gifts on my desk today.
Instead what the company has given me is a fantastic quarter to report to you this morning.
We reported quarterly revenue last night of $967 million EBITDA of $244 million and adjusted net income from continuing operations of $90 million or $0.71 per diluted share.
Our Drilling Products and Services Segment experienced tremendous growth in both the U.S.
land market and Gulf of Mexico markets with our revenue increasing 15% over the fourth quarter in each of those markets.
In the Gulf of Mexico premium drill pipe bottomhole assemblies and other rentals continue to benefit from the ongoing increase in deepwater drilling.
In addition shallow water drilling is also on the upswing which resulted in higher demand for both drilling and completions work.
Shallow water activity was better than expected for our intervention and abandonment services.
While we did experience some seasonality in Q1 the pace of work was greater than forecasted.
We think this bodes well as we move into the traditional season for intervention and decommissioning work during the spring and summer months.
In the U.S.
land markets the legacy Superior products and services grew 7% highlighted by 15% growth in our drilling products and services.
Our downhole drilling tools are located in the sweet spot of today's horizontal drilling markets with exposure in Oklahoma the Eagle Ford Permian and Bakken.
These markets account for about 60% of the horizontal rig count in the U.S.
Not coincidentally the horizontal rig count in those markets has increased by about 15% since the end of 2011.
The other big driver for us in Q1 was the post-merger results turned in by Complete which contributed better results than our prior expectations.
To understand the balance and diversity in our new U.S.
revenue mix we estimated and compared our first quarter EBITDA margin in the U.S.
land market to the fourth quarter and assumed that Complete was in that calculation for both periods.
The analysis indicates that our U.S.
EBITDA margin would've been flat as compared with fourth quarter.
Slightly lower pressure pumping margins were offset by higher margins in many of our other U.S.
land-oriented businesses.
The revenue and margin balance in our diverse product line portfolio is working as designed to minimize the impact to total U.S.
margins from pricing fluctuations in any one particular product line.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook and some of the unique features of our business model that give us a level of comfort with the guidance.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the fourth quarter of 2011.
As you know we have 2 significant content differences in the first quarter of 2012.
Results from the legacy Complete were included beginning on February 8.
Complete contributed to about $398 million in revenue and about $84 million in operating income for the 58% of the quarter for which they were with us.
All their results are included in the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment.
The operating income from Complete is not burdened with corporate overhead for the transaction expenses.
We closed on the sale -- the liftboat business on March 30 2012 the results from the sale of this business and from the sale of a derrick barge are included in discontinued operations.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment revenue was $778 million and income from operations excluding transaction expenses was $113 million.
The legacy Superior services in this segment contributed $300 million in revenue.
U.S.
land revenue in this segment excluding the contribution from Complete increased 3% to $176 million.
In this market area we experienced higher demand across most of our intervention services with the largest increases coming from pressure control and coiled tubing services.
Gulf of Mexico revenue declined 6% to $102 million.
We experienced seasonal declines in plug and abandonment pressure control and intervention services.
As support to Dave's comments regarding Gulf of Mexico's seasonality we saw our first quarter Gulf of Mexico revenue for core services in this segment decline more than 20% from fourth quarter levels in 3 of the past 4 years prior to 2012.
A 6% drop-off like we had this year is fairly low by comparison.
International revenue was $102 million which excludes $22 million from Complete.
This represents a 10% decline from the fourth quarter.
As we mentioned on our last call we expected revenue at Hallin Marine to be lower due to seasonality in Asia-Pacific.
Their results were in line with our expectations.
Revenue is higher for completion tools snubbing and hydraulic workover services.
Lower margins in this segment were primarily a function of the seasonal decline in Gulf of Mexico and Hallin Marine revenue.
In the Drilling Products and Services Segment revenue was $189.4 million and income from operations was $57 million which represents an 11% sequential increase in revenue and a 31% sequential increase in income from operations.
As Dave mentioned revenue increased 15% in both the Gulf of Mexico and U.S.
land markets.
International revenue was essentially unchanged.
As an indication of our post-Macondo recovery this segment recorded $48 million in Gulf of Mexico revenue during the first quarter of 2010 which was the last full quarter prior to the oil spill.
In the first quarter of 2012 we recorded $51 million in Gulf of Mexico revenue and the rig count is not yet back to pre-Macondo level.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the first quarter the face value of our debt exclusive of discounts was $2 billion.
Net debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.6x as compared to 1.4x at the end of the fourth quarter.
Net debt to total capital was 32%.
We currently have nothing drawn on our $600 million revolver.
On April 17 SandRidge Energy closed on its acquisition of Dynamic Offshore Resources.
We were a minority owner of Dynamic.
We received from SandRidge $34 million in cash and 7 million shares of standard stock valued at $51.6 million.
We will recognize a gain of approximately $19 million due in the second quarter.
As a result of the transaction we will no longer have income from equity method investments to report on the income statement.
Capital expenditures in the first quarter were $291 million.
From a modeling perspective in the second quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $150 million to $160 million.
For DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $135 million to $145 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $31 million to $35 million.
The weighted average share count will be approximately 159 million shares.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the rest of the year.
Okay.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release guidance for 2012 is in the range of $3.30 to $3.60.
We narrowed the guidance by increasing the lower end of the range to reflect the outperformance in Q1 while leaving the remainder of our guidance unchanged.
We expect that the product line balance and diversity that I spoke of earlier will help us achieve our projected results in the U.S.
I realized many of you have concerns over the direction of the pressure pumping market in the U.S.
There are 4 main variables weighing on the market today: Supply-chain disruptions repositioning of horsepower cost inflation and basin-specific demand.
Our contracted pressure pumping model minimizes our exposure to those 4 variables.
While we are not immune to headwinds in the market we are significantly protected within the shelter of our contract.
And I will remind you that neither fracturing nor any other particular service line dominates our North American earnings.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico.
On our last earnings call I said that there are a lot of reasons to be optimistic about the Gulf.
Our first quarter results are proof that our optimism is justified and I think activity will only get better as the year progresses.
Deepwater market growth also looks good in the international markets and I'm pleased with the progress that we're making to building out Superior's international footprint.
We are building a portfolio of contracts in Brazil which will allow us to deliver solid year-over-year growth.
And we see an influx of more contract opportunities on the horizon.
Our drilling products and services have successfully expanded into several niche markets in West Africa that are producing very good results for us.
During a recent visit to Saudi Arabia I toured our new well control training center in Al-Khobar and discussed with Aramco and our team the details of our pending start-up in the kingdom.
We continue to be excited about our opportunities for other startups in Latin America and Asia as 2012 progresses.
From a capital expenditure standpoint we are lowering our CapEx range by about $100 million.
So the new range is $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
As we continue to high-grade our internal investment options we are choosing to delay certain items that do not contribute to 2012 earnings while eliminating items that are at the low end of our expected return threshold.
In closing I want to thank the 13 000 employees worldwide for their efforts and dedication particularly those employees in the U.S.
involved in the integration between Complete and Superior as well as our corporate staff who have worked tirelessly behind the scenes on the details related to our recent acquisition divestitures and corporate integration.
Our first quarter results indicate that this combination is off to a great start.
And we'll now open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of James West with Barclays Capital Management.
Research Division</strong> Dave on your new CapEx guidance understanding you're taking out some of the lower -- or eliminated some of the projects that might [indiscernible] earned.
Is there a geographic shift in CapEx as well? And I guess what I'm really trying to get out with this question is are you any less optimistic about North America than you were say 3 months ago? Well I mean I think I wouldn't say that we're significantly less optimistic than we were 3 months ago but of the $100 million that we reduced from overall capital spend the bulk of that is coming from the U.S.
But there are things James that we looked at that weren't contributing for 2012 and we have a number of items in there that are related to CapEx that our non revenue-producing.
And I guess what we've tried to do is just try and high-grade some of the investments overall so that we can get a bit more efficient with our overall capital spend.
And it's an ongoing theme in the company to try and high-grade our overall investments.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it's nothing like slowing down coiled tubing or drill pipe into North America? Coiled tubing has not slowed down.
We're still on track and are taking the orders that we put in place.
And the fact is that we're probably allocating a little bit more money towards drill pipe than what the original budget would've led us to believe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just a follow for me.
On the Gulf of Mexico we obviously have a large number of deepwater rigs running today.
We're going to be probably above pre-Macondo levels perhaps by the end of this year.
Has your market share on drill pipe shifted at all or do you still dominate the drill pipe business? And then are you seeing the benefits also of the businesses you acquired from Baker the sand control business? So on the -- I wouldn't characterize it all as drill pipe on those deepwater rigs.
We had a very high share of rental equipment on the 33 rigs that we're drilling pre-Macondo.
And by all measures our market share is holding to be about the same as the rigs resurface.
So it's not all drill pipe it's bottomhole assemblies and stabilizers and in some cases it's service-related rentals.
But our share seems to be holding strong there.
On the completion side of the business we expect as the market continues to return to pre-Macondo levels that we'll have a market share in that business that's consistent with what that product line experienced in the past prior to acquiring it.
And our next question is from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One of your competitors noted issues on the labor front availability turnover et cetera on the coil tubing side of the business I guess because things have been so strong and everyone's been adding equipment.
Kind of curious to how you guys are managing through that given the market strength and capacity adds and just kind of how you've been seeing that going on.
Well I mean labor has been the big throttle in being able to grow out the coiled tubing business.
And what we have done is we've taken an approach to capital additions in coiled tubing that were within the confines of what we felt comfortable with from a labor standpoint.
So we could have added a lot more coiled tubing units last year we could probably add more coiled tubing units than what we've budgeted this year but are constrained by what we see is our ability to add the kind of quality labor that we want to have.
To this point we have been able to add the labor and we've got people in the pipeline that are being trained for units that are coming out and seem to be holding pretty good from that front.
But the challenge is not new the challenge has been there for at least the last 6 quarters for us and I just think we've managed it fine.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just kind of one follow-up related to pressure pumping.
You mentioned your position is from a contracted standpoint and being a smaller piece of your business.
Remind us for one kind of what percent the business that will end up being in terms of revenues this year.
And number two where you stand on percentage of your fleet that's contracted this year and into next.
It's about 20% of our overall U.S.
revenue and it's about 60% contracted.
And our first contracts expire beginning in the summer of 2013.
So we're pretty well set on contracts through 2012.
And our next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about Gulf of Mexico activity as it's shaping up here for the balance of the year in terms of well intervention service work.
And how busy are you? Is there any signs of any large decommissioning projects coming up and things like that? On the intervention side Q1 is always a seasonally slow quarter for us.
It was a little bit better from an intervention and abandonment standpoint in Q1 this year than what we've seen in recent years.
And certainly it looks like Q2 and Q3 are going to be active periods for this kind of optional work.
And I think the same applies to the balance of decommissioning work.
We've got what looks like a pretty nice backlog of business to carry us through the year from a decommissioning standpoint.
So I mean I characterize that business as looking solid for the rest of the year.
And I think from an intervention and abandonment standpoint we had a pretty good market in Q2 and Q3 of last year and I will expect at least as good a market this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Returning to the pressure pumping question the I guess 40% of your capacity is not long-term contracted and I guess that includes some fleets you're bringing out this year.
So how is your -- how are you marketing kind of strategy? Could you describe your marketing strategy with respect to the fleets that are working under shorter-term arrangements? Yes.
I mean I think as much as anything it's a matter of where those fleets are positioned.
I think it's probably an important time to comment on the fact that when you look at the various basins out there the various basins are acting differently.
The Bakken is acting differently than the Marcellus and the Permian Basin and Mid-Continent are acting different than the Haynesville.
Where you see dry gas you see certain market headwinds.
Where you see markets that are largely weighted towards oil and liquids-rich we're seeing expansion of activity.
So the biggest factor here is where those fleets position.
We're fortunate in that Complete had built out a multi-basin operation for fracturing before we acquired them and it's got a strong weighting towards the oil and liquids-rich basins.
So obviously what we're trying to do with any of the new capacity that comes in and we don't have very much that's coming in for the remainder of the year but those will be positioned in those oil and liquids-rich basins where we already have infrastructure where we're already established with a customer base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of -- so in those basins I guess your implication is that the pricing pressures are not as great as in other basins you might have participated in.
That is certainly the case.
And our next question is from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> What parts of Complete's business exceeded your expectations in the quarter? Was it all pressure pumping or was their coil pretty good fluid handling et cetera? Yes.
I mean it was -- across the board the Complete business really performed well slightly better than what our expectations were.
The water management business certainly was quite good.
In fact I mean if I had to pick one I'd say it was probably more in the water management fluids handling business than any others.
But I mean they all performed pretty well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then something that was pretty notable that you talked a little bit about was U.S.
onshore DP&amp;S outperforming the rig count and you also mentioned that your capital budget for pipe is going up.
Obviously a favorable geographic mix is helping here but how long do you think you can keep up this positive momentum as the rig count supplies go down a little bit and you're obviously expanding aggressively in pipe.
Where do you think you top out? Well I don't know.
I mean it depends on what the rig count does.
If you assume that what we're in for in the U.S.
is a flat rig count to a maybe slight uptick on the oil side as we get into the second half of the year then we still think there's room for us to expand some of our product lines.
Remember we're not market share constrained.
Our market share overall in virtually all of our product and service lines really with the exception of coiled tubing is pretty low.
And so we are able to take advantage of things from a growth standpoint by just small increments of market share growth which become available to us.
So I mean do you run an endgame on that in a flat market? Yes you probably do but it's not in our near-term vision.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then we're starting to get some anecdotes of some of the larger frac guys beginning to use coil as kind of an incentive or loss leader for their frac business.
Are you seeing any of that in the market yet? Well I can't say that we've seen it specifically.
Those are the kinds of things that you would expect to see in places where we have significant activity declines like the Haynesville and like the Marcellus and I can't say that specifically in coil tubing we've seen specifically that case but I wouldn't be surprised to see those kinds of things taking place in those markets.
It's probably a lot less likely that you'll see those things happen in the busier and growing markets that are more oil and liquids-rich based.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally I believe you have The Derwent coming out in the fourth quarter.
When would you expect that to be on rate? What market? And is there a possibility of a contract for that or would you prefer to play the field a bit? There is a possibility for a contract for that.
It's still a bit early to forecast that.
I don't think it would be contracted until it's a little bit closer to delivery but we've not projected any contribution from that vessel until 2013.
So delivery in Q4 is as you suggested and probably revenue generating for us in Q1.
As far as where I think that it's likely to be working somewhere in Asia initially.
I mean the Asian market is certainly one that we see a lot of opportunities for construction-related work as we go into 2013.
That market is already looking stronger today.
So if I had to handicap it I'd say it's probably going to stay in Asia for a while.
And our next question is from line of Joe Gibney with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the workover market your expectations there and capacity additions for you guys as you look into '12 a little bit.
Yes.
We've got a few capacity additions planned in that marketplace.
It's a relatively minor relative to overall fleet size.
Mid-Continent Oklahoma is where our focus is in that business and what we're seeing there is a good market.
I've heard of some people gaining some price expansion in certain places.
I don't know that we're seeing a whole lot of price expansion there.
You may see it in certain basins and you may see a little contraction in other places.
Overall we're seeing about flat margins in the business.
But we'll have some capacity adds there this year that's a good part of what Complete had in their overall portfolio in the U.S.
and we've got good expectations for it in 2012.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just on pumping I'm curious as we close the quarter where you guys stood on horsepower in your installed fleet and if heading towards plus 170 000 was still the targeted trajectory for '12? Yes it is.
We're just north of 500 000-horsepower at this point.
We had a couple of fleets that were delivered in Q1.
We've got a few more fleets coming in during the course of the year.
At this point we cut back and actually Brian Moore has suggested a cutback on horsepower before we actually closed the transaction with Complete for additions in the second half of the year.
So those things that we could cancel without any penalties we did.
And I mentioned that in our last earnings call and we haven't varied from that at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Helpful.
And last one for me.
Just how Hallin outlook looks in terms of subsea construction activity southeast Asia you guys had advertised it would be down a little bit in the first quarter.
Is it more second-half weighted in terms of your expectation for recovery? Do we start to get little bit back here in 2Q? I think we'll get a little bit back in the second quarter.
I mean it seems to be the pattern in that business in Southeast Asia for there to be a bit of a lull in activity during Q1.
We certainly saw it last year and it rebounded nicely in Q2.
And I think our general expectations of what we see in book of business from those guys is that we're going to have a nice rebound in Q2 this year as well.
And our next question is from the line of William Conroy with Pritchard Capital Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave a couple for you I think.
Back to Complete but much more generally.
Are there any major integration hurdles left in your view? And related to that and following onto an earlier question have you seen much or any turnover from within the Complete organization? We've been able to hold onto employees and managers.
And I talked about this when we announced acquisition that retention of management was extremely important for us.
And so when you have a strategy where retention of management is important then and it is a driver then the things that you do from an integration standpoint really have to be done at a pace and that's part of what has to happen if you intend to retain management.
And so we have integration exercises that are going on in the field but they're really restricted to the IPS and Warrior businesses which are the coiled tubing intervention businesses on land in the U.S.
Those 2 businesses were in competition and it's an area where we've really been the most focused from an integration standpoint.
And I would describe this as being very much field-oriented integration.
That's how do you take care of customers and who's going to carry out activities in the different service lines.
We've got 2 guys that are really working for Brian Moore that have been leading that exercise.
Listen I don't want to give you the impression that this is easy to do it's not.
Field integration is something that -- it requires a tremendous amount of management time and attention.
Is it progressing the way we thought it would? Yes.
And are we minimizing some of the potential risk by keeping some of the corporate-related integration out of the way? I think the answer to that is yes.
So I'm comfortable with the way it's being managed to this point.
But it's not over with and it's not easy to do.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And another one really from up around 30 000 feet.
If I think about your tenure here and when you came in I mean Superior didn't have the lift the U.S.
land focus that it does today.
Complete was still probably coming out of being a much more gassy focused company.
So as you've transitioned to being more focused in some of the oily basins how far along do you think you are with that? And I guess another way to ask it is do you feel that you've still got penetration or market share opportunities in the oily basins by virtue of the fact that they were not the previous focus of the 2 operations? Well I mean I think part of our premise for the acquisition of Complete was to gain a stronger foothold and a basin that was developing as an oil basin.
And I think it's important to bring that up.
Was Complete more focused on gas 2 years ago? Yes they were.
But the entire U.S.
land market was focused more on gas 2 years ago.
This evolution of the market towards more oil and liquids-rich is something that's occurred during the course of the last 2 years and our general premise is that it's a market driver which will continue to gain momentum in the U.S.
over the course of the next several years.
So the basins transformed.
The transformation in the basin is really what led us to the decision to transform the company towards one that was more U.S.
land-based.
Do we have more opportunities to grow in oil basins? I think the answer to that is yes.
We've got good concentration of assets in some of the oily basins but we're still growing in several of them.
In the Permian Basin for example which neither Superior nor Complete had a strong foothold in but we're building out a nice foothold there.
We still haven't addressed anything in Canada at this point.
And Canada is also I think in the early stages of becoming a more important oil and liquids-rich basin and we don't have the footprint there.
So as I think about it there are several geographic areas that present growth opportunities for us in North America as we go forward.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave a more specific version maybe of that last question.
We can't see it in your results given that margin in U.S.
land has held quite well.
But to what extent are you actively relocating assets other than pressure pumping across the U.S.
right now? To what extent is that burdening you? And will that burden ease as we look forward or is it really immaterial? No.
We're trying to select those types of assets that don't come with the burden of relocation.
And I think we'll have some coil tubing units that move from the gassier basins during the course of the year.
We'll have some rental equipment that moves from the gassier basins during the course of the year.
Those are generally assets that don't come along with an extreme relocation risk or cost.
Certainly not to the extent that a fracturing fleet would.
And so part of what we're trying to do is to keep those equipment locations that would cause P&amp;L interruptions to a minimum.
I think we've -- I've talked about the frac fleet that was a callout frac fleet in the Marcellus that we've chosen to park on the fence and leave there.
The thought process behind this is that we've got other fracturing fleets that are coming into the fleet -- coming into our total fleet this year that are going to oil basins as opposed to going through the cost and risk of relocating one fleet from the Marcellus.
Our belief is that when gas prices rebound which I don't think that happens in 2012 but they will at some point the Marcellus is probably the first basin to respond.
And so we'll have a frac fleet that's there.
And coincidentally we'll have crews that are transferring to the Bakken for a period of time that'll be ready to come home.
So we're trying to make some deliberate decisions here that minimize that impact of P&amp;L disruptions as a result of relocation.
And so when we move things like frac stacks a lot lower cost and a lot lower risk.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And switching gears Wild Well been mentioned a couple times lately you got containment opportunities kind of emerging in the medium term and I'll appreciate that that's not a business with a ton of visibility.
I was wondering what the outlook is for some of those product lines maybe this year versus last year.
Well it's pretty good actually.
I mean the Wild Well business is off to a good start.
From a well control standpoint they been pretty active here lately.
Some of those incidents you read about in the press a lot of them you don't.
But they certainly have been active.
The containment business is one that is progressing and proceeding as we planned.
It's a business that's fairly predictable for us and so we built the increases into our budget and earnings guidance that we gave to you guys relative to increases that we have in revenue and earnings from the containment systems and that's all progressing just as we thought it would.
I mean I have to characterize all those things certainly as being better at this point in 2012 than they were at the same point in 2011.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then if I could squeeze one last one in.
I thought when you addressed the CapEx change you noted you were eliminating some non-revenue contributing capital.
Yes.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Are you -- is that facility related? Are you changing plans with regard to facility expansions you were going to undertake? No.
As a matter of fact I don't think any of it's related to facilities.
We have a significant number of non revenue-generating items that hurt our capital budget every year.
I'll give you some examples okay? Pickup trucks.
We have a lot of pickup trucks.
Pickup trucks don't generate revenue and so -- and looking at some of those we realized there were some of them that we could probably delay into 2013 and I'm not talking just about pickup trucks but generally non revenue-generating assets or things that weren't contributing for us in 2012 and that's probably a better place to focus.
I mean as we continue to scrub capital spending budget which is not something that we do once a year it's something that we do all the time.
We've found some things that you look and say the overall return that we expect from that investment is really kind of on the low-end of where we'd like to make internal capital investments and it's not contributing to 2012 so they became kind of easy things to drop off and that's what we've chosen to do.
As much as anything Daniel I characterize it as just continual scrubbing.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
I want to thank all of you for joining us and we'll talk to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
Good day ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Tuesday July 31 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein Executive Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Please go ahead sir.
Okay.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during the call today management will make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures including EBITDA and adjusted net income from continuing operations.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
We reported quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $375 million and adjusted net income from continuing operations of $131.6 million or $0.83 per diluted share.
We had an excellent quarter despite a challenging U.S.
land market in which we performed very well.
Our U.S.
land revenue increased 37% over the first quarter primarily due to the full quarter contribution from Complete.
If we assume Complete contributed a full quarter in Q1 then our U.S.
land revenue would've been essentially unchanged.
Strength in pressure pumping and downhole drilling tools was offset by a decline in intervention services such as coil tubing and wireline and accommodation rentals primarily in the dry gas basins.
On a full quarter basis pressure pumping revenue increased over the first quarter by 6% while the operating margin was slightly higher.
This is partly attributable to our contracted horizontal well factory model in which 11 of our 18 fleets are on 3-year term contracts with minimal exposure to guar pricing and other fluctuations in raw material prices.
Our downhole rental tools comprised of premium drill pipe and bottomhole assemblies also showed strength in the U.S.
experiencing revenue growth of 2% despite a 1% decline in U.S.
rig count.
These businesses are leveraged to the horizontal rig count in oily areas.
Lower coil tubing wireline and accommodations revenue was largely a function of reduced demand in the dry gas basin where we finally worked through the completions backlog after several quarters of high demand despite months of falling rig activity.
To a lesser extent we also experienced some weakness in the Bakken as the mild winter led many customers to drilling complete wells earlier in the year than they anticipated.
The Gulf of Mexico and international markets showed the strongest growth in the second quarter.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 12% due to a 20% increase in revenue from the Drilling Products and Services Segment.
Much of this growth came from the deepwater as the rig count reached post-Macondo highs.
International revenue increased 11% due to a 15% increase in revenue from the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment.
Much of the increase is attributable to well control projects and other pressure control work performed in the North Sea West Africa and Middle East.
Through the first 6 months of this year our results validate our diversified business model.
We have met or exceeded our guidance without adjusting expectations downward during the period maintained our overall margins grew revenue and margins in pressure pumping offset declines in certain dry gas basins in the U.S.
land market with growth in the Gulf of Mexico and international markets and continued to integrate Superior and Complete.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the first quarter of 2012.
As you know the major content difference is the legacy Complete contributed a full quarter of results in Q2 as compared with a partial quarter in Q1.
All of Complete's results are recorded in the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement Segment revenue was $1 billion and income from operations was $180 million.
U.S.
land revenue in this segment increased 44% to $793 million.
In addition to growth in the product line as Dave mentioned we saw increases in pressure control completion tools and remedial pumping services.
In Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% to $110 million.
Plug and abandonment experienced a seasonal recovery in the second quarter while we also saw an uptick in decommissioning and well control work.
International revenue was $142 million which represents a 15% increase from the first quarter.
As Dave mentioned Wild Well Control successfully completed several emergency response projects.
In addition we had a full quarter contribution from Complete's coil tubing business in Mexico.
Our operating margin increased about 260 basis points over the first quarter when you exclude transaction-related expenses from Q1.
The margin growth was due to improved margin performance from pressure pumping and well control -- 2 of the larger product lines in this segment in addition to higher margins for some of our Gulf of Mexico services due to seasonal improvement from the first quarter.
In the Drilling Products and Services Segment revenue was $198 million and income from operations was $59 million which represents a 5% sequential increase in revenue and a 4% sequential increase in income from operation.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was $61 million a 20% increase from the first quarter as the post-Macondo rig count continues to outpace our expectations.
International and U.S.
land revenue was essentially unchanged from first quarter level.
As Dave mentioned the key takeaways from the U.S.
land market was a 2% increase in downhole drilling tools which was offset by a decline in accommodation.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the second quarter our debt was $2 billion.
Debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.6x as compared to 1.7x at the end of the first quarter and debt to total capital was 33%.
We currently have nothing drawn on our $600 million revolver.
Capital expenditures in the second quarter were $315 million.
For the first 6 months of the year capital expenditures were $588 million.
From a modeling perspective in the third quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $155 million to $160 million.
For DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $140 million to $145 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $30 million to $32 million.
Weighted average share count is approximately 159 million.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook for the year.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release guidance for 2012 has been reduced to a range of $2.75 to $3.05.
That implies a midpoint of $1.37 for the second half of the year which we think is about evenly distributed between the 2 quarters.
We often talk about how our diversified business model can reduce volatility in earnings.
Clearly we have experienced the benefit of this model during the first 6 months of the year.
I believe our margins have held up better than many of our competitors while meeting or exceeding expectations in both quarters.
The rationale for our reduced earnings guidance and outlook for the remainder of this year is driven by a variety of factors facing our U.S.
land-based customers.
Our customers' cash flow has been negatively impacted by continued low natural gas prices lower oil prices realized during the second quarter and by the precipitous decline in NGL prices.
In this lower pricing and reduced cash flow environment lower cash generation will stress and in some cases not support current budgets.
As a result we think customers can choose 1 of 3 scenarios: First they can finish off their budgets at the current pace and then release their supply chain.
Second they can slow down the pace of work to stay within budget working their supply chain at reduced levels.
Or third they can seek outside financing to maintain the current pace of activity once their budgets are spent.
During the past couple of years many customers particularly those in the horizontal well fracturing markets would take advantage of improvements in drilling and completion efficiency and increased cash flows to fast forward their spending plans as they completed budgeted projects ahead of schedule in order to keep the supply chain working.
We think this year that some customers will release their supply chain of rigs frac fleets and coil tubing units when they hit their capital spending budget limits.
Others will look for ways to slow down their spending.
For instance moving from 7-day schedules to 5-day schedules.
In either case the impact will be lower utilization.
Although the possible market scenarios will put some downward pressure on U.S.
service activity the outcome feels more like a soft landing as to this point many of our customers have been reluctant to give up their supply chain choosing instead to work services at lower utilization levels.
Not every component of our U.S.
land business will react the same way in the next few quarters.
For instance we expect downhole drilling rentals and well service rigs to remain busy and expect margins in these services to hold up to Q2 performance levels.
Coil tubing and fluid management will likely contract.
Pressure pumping revenue will decline with lower utilization but margins will hold within 400 basis points of Q2 margins as the bulk of our utilization is protected by the term contracting scheme in that business.
In dry gas markets we think activity has nearly bottomed.
There may be some small pockets of pricing utilization declines to go but we are largely at the trough.
These factors are driving our decision to reduce guidance for the remainder of the year.
We think the Gulf of Mexico will remain strong and continue to improve from second quarter levels.
We have underestimated the recovery in the deepwater as the rig count has surpassed our expectations throughout the year so there could be additional upside in the Gulf.
International should continue to be a steady contributor.
We are earning in our share of contract awards in markets like Brazil while ramping up activity in new markets like Saudi Arabia.
We are maintaining our current capital expenditure guidance of $1 billion to $1.1 billion although CapEx will be winding down as the year progresses and could finish the year under $1 billion.
While we've not gone through our budgeting process yet for 2013 I would expect next year's CapEx will be lower by as much as 40%.
Growth CapEx in 2013 will go to international and Gulf of Mexico markets.
I expect that our U.S.
services business would spend only at a maintenance capital level.
This is very preliminary thinking as this point as our budgeting process will not be finalized until the end of the year.
I should comment that our near-term expectations from the U.S.
land market represent a pause not a long-term change in our outlook.
We believe that as we enter 2013 our customers will adjust their budgets to reflect the kind of efficiency improvements that have been realized in the unconventional resource basins that improved takeaway on oil and NGL will provide more certainty in cash flow and the U.S.
independent customer base will continue to exploit underdeveloped oil opportunities resulting in an upward migration of drilling and completion activity.
That concludes our prepared comments so we'll open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave the I guess question I have for you is what kind of sensitivity are you using in the context of rig activity for that reduced guidance? I know you mentioned the land drilling kind of being a pause.
You went through the different scenarios and the what E&amp;P customers may or may not do and kind of what your initial experience on those scenarios -- on those outcomes may be.
I'm just kind of curious in terms of -- a number of your competitors are maybe suggesting kind of a flat rig count and some are suggesting it might be down and I'm just wondering if you might give us a little range of what you think U.S.
land-related rig activity might do between now and let's say year end or first part of 2013? I think between now and year end it's probably got a slight downward pull call it in a range of 50 to 100 rigs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you think that the bulk of that -- and for your planning purposes at this point do you think that's going to be the extent of the downturn and that first half would kind of exit flat with the fourth quarter? Yes I think so.
I mean I think in the -- if we assume flat commodity prices with where we are today that going into 2013 there may still be somewhat of a downward pull.
But it's fairly muted.
And you think about 50 to 100 rigs in a 2 000-rig environment I mean that's not a lot of activity change.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then the -- I guess my follow-up question will be what you mentioned on pressure pumping the utilization levels coming down and I think you said margins will be within a few hundred basis points of the second quarter level.
Can you just give us an update again as to what percent of your horsepower is contracted when those contracts run out and then what you're seeing in the spot pricing market at this point? Yes.
11 of the 18 fleets that we have working in the field today are contracted on the term take-or-pay-type contracts and the first of those contracts expires in the summer of 2013 and that kind of run off over a 3-year period after that.
We had some that actually started up in the first quarter of 2012 so obviously those don't expire until 2015.
LLC Research Division</strong> What would that represent in terms of your overall horsepower? About 60%.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then what have you seen with respect to spot pricing as we've kind of entered the third quarter here? Yes.
I mean spot pricing and more importantly the -- just demand for spot fleets has certainly reduced significantly in the dry gas basins and you do see some pricing pressure and utilization pressure in some of the oil basins as we've seen capacity migrate from the gas basins to the oil basins and we've seen some new capacity coming to the market.
Our next question is from the line of James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on your near-term guidance.
If I just take the low end of your range that would imply in a low 60s per quarter 3Q and 4Q yet it looks like in the second quarter you're doing about $0.27 $0.28 per month here.
Have you -- did you see a steady slide kind of in 2Q in your earnings profile that we get to those levels? Or are you building in just conservatism and seasonality and expecting more of a drop-off? Yes.
I mean we did see some downward progression during the course of the quarter and it was probably most pronounced in June.
And as we talk to the operations and talk to customers and begin to understand it a bit more I think it helped us to form our thoughts.
Month of June helped us to form our thoughts on what we could expect for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay fair enough.
And then if we look a little bit longer term I know you didn't give earnings guidance for next year but you talked a little bit about CapEx how do we marry kind of your thoughts that the independents will become a little more active next year versus the idea that you might move down to more of a maintenance CapEx level on your U.S.
land operations? Yes.
So we've got equipment deliveries which are taking place during 2012 which we think are going to satisfy demand increase that we would experience during 2013.
And so I guess what it says and I think you've heard this from other people as well we've talked about having some having frac fleets in some of the dry gas basins that we chose to park as opposed to move to the oily areas and we look at that as dry powder.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So presumably then you'll be kicking off some free cash flow next year? Yes we certainly think so.
And of course we haven't put together our full budget for 2013.
When we do that we'll be talking to you guys about it but I think that's a pretty reasonable expectation.
Research Division</strong> Do you have any initial thoughts on kind of uses of free cash flow? Well we're in conversation with our board about this.
I think we've been pretty upfront in stating that our first use of free cash would be to retire debt.
We've got $300 million in 6 7/8% notes which are available to us at par and that's kind of the first priority.
And after that we'll be having conversations with our board about other uses of free cash.
And at the top of our list of discussion is what's the most efficient way to get that cash back to shareholders.
We really don't have any other big slugs of debt to retire over the next couple of years.
So that's part of our conversation at this point.
Research Division</strong> So share buyback is definitely on the table? Yes.
I think that's part of the conversation we're having with the board.
We currently don't have an authorization for share buyback.
But as we look out to 2013 it becomes a bit more of an issue for us.
It's not right now.
The priority is buying in some of the debt.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I think about your coil wireline and accommodations businesses as a bucket how much of those are in dry gas basins at this point? I'm going to -- I don't have a perfect number sitting in front of me Joe but I'm going to say that it mirrors kind of the rest of our overall U.S.
revenue mix which would be on the order of 25%.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I think about the good well control work you had in the second quarter is there -- is some of that continuing into the third quarter? Or we pretty much wrapped that up? Well the thing about emergency response well control work you'll never know when it's going to pop up.
We do have periods where we get busier with that type of work than others.
Let's say Q2 is a pretty busy period for us from a well control standpoint but we could be at 100% utilization next week too.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's just too volatile to tell? Yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then finally how much longer can the upswing we've seen in the P&amp;A and decommissioning business in the Gulf of Mexico last in your opinion? Yes.
I don't know that it's been a significant upswing overall from a market standpoint.
I mean it's been a strong part of the business on the P&amp;A side for the last couple of years.
This year is a bit of an uptick for us on the decommissioning side but it's a relatively small piece of our overall business.
It -- there's still a lot of wells that are out there and a lot of structures that exist in the Gulf of Mexico that our operators are having to deal with and we really don't see any kind of downturn in the available market over the next several years.
Our next question is from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
You gave a pretty good overview bridging us from the first half to the second half but you went really fast.
So I'm going to ask you to give us a little more color on it.
I believe you said Gulf of Mexico rentals international holding up pretty well coil tubing pressure pumping down.
I presume you've got to be assuming the well control stuff comes down from a pretty robust quarter as well.
But just give us a little more color on that if you could and do it a little more slowly.
I thought you did a pretty good job right there.
I think that's fairly in line with our expectation.
And the well control work is a bit difficult to forecast as I'm sure you guys can appreciate and Q2 was a good quarter for us on the well control business.
But we got other parts of the product line as well that have the opportunity I think to improve during the course of the year outside of the U.S.
business and I can get back to clarifying our position on some of these product lines in the U.S.
But things for us like the subsea construction business which has still been relative underperformer for us we think has got opportunities over the course of the next really 6 to 8 quarters to be an improver.
We think that our completions activity in the Gulf of Mexico will really begin to step up more as we've doing more.
We've seen more rigs that have been on a drilling cycle on the deepwater side and have not seen a lot of completions going on and that begins to change in Q4 and into 2013.
So that's a lot of different moving parts and pieces I guess.
The U.S.
land piece is one where I think kind of consistent with the comments that I made before.
Our expectation really revolves more around what lower utilization in the second half of the year than what we've experienced in the first half of the year in pressure pumping coil tubing accommodations and electric line and those businesses whereas we see things like rental tools downhole rental tools holding up pretty well as a result of what is still a market that's in great demand for those products.
All right.
A follow-up on that.
You -- going back 6 months to a year ago you're probably one of the better prognosticators on the Gulf of Mexico rig count.
You ended up being pretty damn close as I remember it.
What's your outlook now for the rest of this year and next year for Gulf of Mexico rig count? I think it's got an upward bias to it overall.
I mean we were very accurate with our expectations in 2011 and we've been probably a little on the low side from an actual versus expectation standpoint in 2012.
I did not think that we'd get back up to pre-Macondo levels until the end of the year and we're pretty close to those levels right now.
There still seems to be a tremendous demand from our deepwater customer base to get more rigs into the market and pursue some of the very lucrative deepwater projects that they have.
In the last few months permits have been going our way which has been encouraging although it's hard to base a lot of optimism on permitting activity but it looks pretty strong Marshall.
I mean demand seems to be good.
It's been good on the shelf with more oily related projects.
So overall I think that rig count activity has generally a pretty good upward bias to it.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up also on the Gulf of Mexico.
In this new post-Macondo environment are you seeing uptick in the deepwater on revenue per rig? And if so what are the product lines that are becoming more intensive for the new drilling? Yes.
Well for us it certainly is an uptick in that we've got more exposure to revenue on a deepwater rig today than we did pre-Macondo.
And that's primarily as a result of the acquisition of the completion tools business that we made in August of 2010.
We think overall our exposure in the deepwater market is about 50% higher today than it was pre-Macondo.
So that's certainly an uplift for us.
And the traditional product lines that we've had in the deepwater arena on rental tools I'd say it's been about flat with pre-Macondo maybe with a slight upward tick to it but overall flat on the rental tool side.
You may recall we had exposure on 31 of the 33 rigs that we're drilling prior to the Macondo incident.
So our share was pretty good and we're maintaining that pretty good share.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just shifting back onshore.
You're still expecting pretty big slug of new capacity of pressure pumping equipment coming out in the second half of the year about 100 000 horsepower or so.
What are your intentions for that? Are you going to put it out on the field? Or are you going to stack it put it on the sidelines? What are your intentions for that additional capacity in this market? Well we'll be opportunistic with that capacity where we see that it can deliver margins that are similar to what that business delivers for us today.
If we can't operate that capacity at margins that are consistent with what we've seen in pressure pumping recently then we'll park it.
LLC Research Division</strong> When do you have to make those decisions? Is it a real-time decision? Or do you have to make it ahead of time to get all the blenders and the other ancillary equipment? No.
The equipment deliveries will be the same whether we choose to put it to work or not.
The lead time would be in sourcing the crews necessary for the incremental equipment addition.
And those are clearly decisions that don't need to be made before the equipment is delivered.
In some cases they may be if the opportunities there but they don't need to be.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> A question on -- you mentioned the guidance expectations for kind of evenly distributed in the back -- in the second half of the year.
I just want to understand is that kind of maybe some seasonality in the Gulf being offset by international ramp? Or things will just kind of move sideways across all your geographic regions? No.
As much as anything we have historically had more of our overall exposure in the Gulf of Mexico as a company which Gulf of Mexico there is some seasonality that typically we see a bit of in Q4 and even more of in Q1.
And I guess as much as anything with the growth in the company our expansion in the U.S.
land and expanding international business it's just quite a bit more muted in our results today than it has been in the past.
In Q4 it's typically a bit soft on the intervention and end-of-life-type services in the Gulf of Mexico.
Q1 is one where we typically would see the more softness though.
I guess as much as anything Michael the expansion of the company mutes that seasonality.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just another one on the Compact Semi-Submersible.
What's kind of the outlook for that upon I guess it's -- and when is it ready to work? Early next year I believe? Yes.
I think we've got -- I think that we're counting on revenue and earnings from the Compact Semi-Submersible in the second quarter of 2013.
It'll be delivered to us sometime around the end of the year early in Q1.
And we've not been too rambunctious about planning when revenue comes in but I can tell you that there a lot of customers that are looking at that vessel now very interested in its capabilities.
It's a -- it is of course quite a unique vessel and offers some unique opportunities for our customers particularly in the Asia-Pacific area.
Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> A question really following up on Michael's then in looking at the thought that your EPS in the second half of the year will be pretty evenly distributed.
Does that also mean that in the North America onshore environment you see margins pretty consistent in Q3 and into Q4? That the margin trend will be pretty flat in that second half of the year? Yes that's generally a good expectation I think.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just to tie that thought together then.
You ran an onshore top-line pro forma for CTX flat Q1 to Q2.
You added a lot of capacity first half of the year.
You talked about a couple of different business lines having different dynamics in the second half of the year.
Stir them all together is again pretty flat onshore top line the right place to mark? No.
I mean -- I think that with lower utilization we'll see a little bit less revenue going forward from Q2.
It's not -- this is not just a function of price.
It's a function of utilization as well and that will affect your top line number.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just to squeeze in maybe a last one there.
In and around the timing of the closure of the merger you all did some -- there were some portfolio actions.
Obviously the market now is a little bit more uncertain.
But asset sales or product line rationalizations any of that to expect here in the second half of the year? Nothing that's on the table at this point.
I think we've been consistent in our message here that as we see parts of the business that are not attracting capital then we'll look at those parts of the business for divestiture.
And I think what we did with our liftboat business this year is a demonstration of how we carry that out.
But there's not anything that's teed up of any size or substance at this point.
Our next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you what is the number of coil tubing units that you're marketing now? Is it 70? Or is it higher than that? No.
We've got roughly 85 to 90 in the fleet at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's with the additions you made? Yes.
We've had a few additions in the first part of this year.
The basis of that -- those are combination of the Superior and Complete fleets which I think at close was at 84.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And so then your -- the contractual arrangements that you have on those are kind of call-out spot-related work.
So have they kind of all repriced to the current market environment? I don't know that all of them have repriced.
I mean it kind of depends on the market they're working in.
And of course I don't want to represent those arrangements as being the types of contracts that we have on our term contracted frac fleets.
They tend to be a much shorter duration.
So some of those are essentially on call-out.
Others are committed to customers for periods of time on a monthly basis or what it might be -- whatever it might be.
And so there's not really a generalization regarding price or utilization that I could put on that part of the business.
It's been under pressure from a pricing utilization standpoint in the dry gas basins and our expectation going forward is that with additional capacity that's come into the oil markets it'll be under some pressure in the second half of the year once again for utilization.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
Well I also wanted to ask you about the fluids management business that you acquired with Complete and how that business is holding up in the -- in this time where we're seeing a drop in completions well completions.
Yes.
Well I mean to this point it's held up quite well.
Our position in that business and our exposure in that business is largely in the oily basins.
We didn't have dry gas exposure to any great extent with extent with fluids so we've not really experienced much in the way of contraction at this point.
I think our general belief is that as the year goes on with some contraction of overall drilling and completion activity that utilization and margins in that business will be under bit of pressure.
But we think that that is a slight contraction in revenue with maybe 300 or 400 basis points overall margin contraction.
So it's kind of fits my overall theme for North American -- our North American services business kind of a soft landing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on that same business is the production fluids management business stitched that is a logical extension of what you're doing with that? Well I mean produced water is a big part of that business for us today.
And in fact it's certainly a part of the business that we don't expect to see a decline in the second half of the year.
That's a part of the business that holds up fairly well.
So many of the oil and liquids-rich basins which are being exploited by our customers today are producing a lot of water.
And so that keeps that business holding up fairly well.
Our next question is from the line of Jeffrey Spittel with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess with regard to mobilizing equipment with a lot of the moves from basin to basin that's happened from an operator standpoint in the first half of the year how far along are we in terms of being in the late innings with regard to your equipment? Well we didn't have a whole lot of equipment migration.
I mean if you recall our fracturing fleets in the gas basin really we're exposed in the Marcellus.
We didn't have any fracturing capacity in the Haynesville.
We did have some coil tubing and some pressure control equipment in the Haynesville that we've been migrating out of there over the course of the last couple of years.
We've been waiting for that completions activity in the Haynesville to slow down and really are only just now beginning to see a lot of impact from that as we work through that completions backlog.
But I would say overall that we've not been quite as exposed to the costs and inefficiencies that go along with the equipment movements that many of our competitors have talked about.
And perhaps that's part of the reason why our first and second quarter results have held up so well at least part of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And shifting back to the Gulf of Mexico.
You got obviously some inbound floaters headed for that market here over the next several quarters.
As you look out into 2013 and maybe allocating some more growth capital to that end of the business is there anything in particular from a product or service line standpoint that's at the top of your wish list in terms of devoting incremental capital? Yes.
It's downhole rental tools which we would expect to have some capital requirements for in 2013 as that deepwater rig fleet expands.
We -- you may recall that when the moratorium was placed on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico we took that opportunity to transfer out some of the rental tool assets which were of course not being utilized at all and send those assets to international markets or U.S.
land markets as appropriate.
We've had to over the course of 2011 and 2012 rebuild that rental fleet back up to accommodate current demand.
And as the fleet continues to grow in the Gulf we'll need to add for that fleet.
We certainly expect to protect our market share position and of course the types of margins and return that we generate in that business are going to be very attractive to us from a capital investment standpoint.
Our next question is from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two things I would like you to address if possible.
The first the contracts on the '11 pressure pumping fleet have you had -- or would you have any discussions with customers about changing the terms for obviously in exchange for other work either any ancillary services and/or additional contract term? Well I'm not going to say that we wouldn't.
I mean I think that when a customer comes to talk to you you always want to put yourself in a position of listening.
But at this point those contracts are held with customers.
They continue to have a pretty robust level of activity and we have certainly accommodated those customers in the past and completely accommodated those customers in the past as well when they had a desire to move the application of one contract from one basin to another.
And so I don't want to make it sound like we've signed those contracts and dig our heels in the sand and don't speak to customers about them again because that's not the case.
But to say that we're renegotiating those contracts would be inaccurate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the margin front you talked a little bit about margin progression as we go through the year.
If we look at I guess particularly on the Subsea and Well Enhancement side your comments on flattish margins from here is that a combination of improvement internationally on the Gulf and deterioration in the U.S.? And if so can you give us any color on the magnitude as far as how you're modeling things? Yes.
Overall margins internationally I think as we look through the second half of the year are not significantly different than what we experienced in the first half of the year.
As time goes on that international revenue base does build up but it's happening at a margin that I think is fairly consistent with what we've experienced.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> And then the Gulf relative to North America land U.S.
land is there any give-and-take period? Any color on the U.S.
land side particularly I guess is what I'm getting at.
Yes.
I mean the color on the U.S.
land side would be -- our expectation that utilization in the second half of the year and in some cases pricing in the second half of the year is going to be less than what it is coming out of Q2.
And so most of what we're projecting as far as changes going forward change is primarily driven by our expectations on U.S.
land.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could slip one final one in in your mind the biggest variable between the top and bottom of your guidance? Yes.
It's -- I mean it's clearly North America.
I mean the whole reason that we're adjusting guidance was based on this change in expectation we had for the near term for North America and I'd say it completely revolves around that.
Our next question is from the line of John Daniel with Simmons and Company.
Research Division</strong> Dave you made a comment in your prepared remarks about awards in Brazil.
Can you elaborate on those awards and if they had any impact on Q2 results? They did not have any impact on Q2 results.
We've had a couple of contract awards one that we're gearing up for kind of in the second half of the year that is relative to miscellaneous pumping.
We still have several that are in the Q.
So to answer your question they did not have an impact on Q2.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next one for me was just in response to an earlier question.
You mentioned that Q3 revs would be down.
Can you just characterize that for us whether that's low-single-digit declines or high-single digits? From a revenue standpoint I mean we think of it as being kind of the single digits.
I'd characterize it as kind of between 5% and 10%.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just a housekeeping for me and if you said this earlier I apologize.
But can you remind us what the average horsepower was in Q1? Also what it was in Q2? And then where you stand today and what remains on order? And that's it.
I don't have that average horsepower sitting in front of me John.
If you'll get with us after the call we'll pass it on.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Mike Schrebcast [ph] with Olive [ph] Capital.
Sorry I must have missed what you guys said you expect for CapEx for the rest of the year and I just have a follow-up after that.
Yes we think overall capital spending -- we've not changed our guidance on that at this point.
We think overall CapEx spending what we've guided to in prior calls would be something in the range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion.
The only comment that I did make is that that is a pace of capital spending that is slowing down as the year progresses and I wouldn't be surprised if it came in something less than $1 billion in total for the year.
And can you talk a little bit about how -- now that there's some excess equipment out there how does that impact your need to spend versus moving equipment? And how are you -- what are you seeing in the industry? Are there less people building or buying equipment versus just moving equipment? Yes.
I mean I think overall industry-wide capital spend orders in the second half of the year are down significantly.
And so there's still some equipment that is coming into the market although we certainly hear about a lot of our competitors that are taking delivery and parking that equipment and we'll do some of the same.
I've mentioned that we would do that in the -- for instance with fracturing assets if we don't see immediate opportunities.
And so a general impression is that as we exit 2012 there's not a lot of equipment that'll be coming into the market.
It's fairly rare now that you hear about people speaking of orders for new equipment in 2013.
And so it kind of implies that we're entering a period here where there won't be a lot of new capacity coming in.
I expect that there will still be some movement that people have of assets from the dry gas basins to the oily basins.
But my expectation is that the bulk of that asset migration has already taken place.
And I think generally players in your industry have said we have to spend a certain dollar of CapEx and that should flow through to revenue within let's call it 1 year to 1.5 years.
Do you think that dynamic is changing where the productivity of your existing asset base is going to go up just because you're moving equipment from one basin to another and instead of going out and buying equipment to fulfill an order you're just utilizing existing equipment? Well I think -- maybe I don't understand your question perfectly well.
I guess my question is why is it -- what are you going to be spending CapEx on if the top line -- or if the opportunity set out there comes down a little bit and it sounds like you have the ability to move equipment why do you need to spend as much CapEx? Yes.
So the bulk of our CapEx in 2013 from a growth standpoint in fact all of our CapEx from a growth standpoint will be focused to the international markets and to the Gulf of Mexico.
We will be entering an environment of what we generally describe as maintenance capital spending for the U.S.
and we think that that maintenance capital level is on the order of call it $100 million a year.
So obviously substantially lower than what we invested in 2012.
And any -- from your perspective in talking with customers natural gas has moved up over $3.
Have you seen a change at all between natural gas moving from the low $2 to $3 in some markets where natural gas drilling could start to pick up? No.
We've not seen any movement from a drilling activity standpoint as the result of the recent improvements in natural gas prices.
Clearly it's helpful from a cash flow standpoint for those customers that either aren't fully hedged or are only -- that are partially hedged.
But we've not seen or I would not anticipate any movement in a natural gas drilling market until we get to a 12-month strip that's closer to or in excess of $4.
And I think that's -- I feel pretty strongly about that actually in speaking to customers.
And of course those that are more in the unconventional shale resource basins when they start to get more active they're not going to activate a single rig or 2 rigs in all likelihood to take advantage of efficiencies and what they know about that horizontal well fracturing market.
They'll be adding capacity in increments of 4 and 5 and 6 at a time.
So that -- in order to...
And that would be favorable to pricing for you guys if that happens? Yes.
So really don't see that moving until we get up to about $4.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Matt Conlan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up here some clarification.
You're talking about the revenue trajectory you're expecting from the second quarter to the third quarter.
I think you mentioned down 5% to 10%.
Was that just the U.S.
land revenues or total revenues? That's just U.S.
land revenue.
It's really U.S.
land services revenue to be more specific.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
I thank all of you for joining us and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Superior Energy Services' Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
If you'd like to listen to a replay of today's conference please dial 1 (303) 590-3030 with the access code of 4549044.
ACT would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to  Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Thursday October 25 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein Executive Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Development.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures in accordance with Regulation G.
The company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Yesterday afternoon we reported quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $308 million and adjusted net income from continuing operations of $95 million or $0.60 per diluted share.
The major difference between the $0.60 in earnings in the upper end of our pre-earnings guidance on October 2 comes from lower depreciation expense and better-than-expected international performance.
Our EBITDA was in line with the upper end of the guidance that was included in our pre-announcement press release.
We really had 2 themes for the second half of 2012 that we talked about during our last conference call and both are coming to reality.
The first theme as we discussed last quarter is that the slower customer spending and reduced rig count activity in the U.S.
would impact utilization for completion-related services especially pressure pumping coiled tubing and fluid management services.
This has been the case although the utilization has certainly declined at a more rapid pace than we anticipated when we guided you in this direction last quarter.
The second theme is that while we anticipated a reduction in operating margins those margins would still compare favorably to our North American peers.
Operating margins for our U.S.-focused services are meeting expectations in this market environment thanks to our contracted pressure pumping model broad exposure to many bases and services and a strong presence in the high-margin drilling products and services space.
While our U.S.
land revenue declined 11% from the second quarter our Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 11% and our international revenue grew 7%.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenue was negatively impacted by Hurricane Isaac which resulted in about 2 weeks of lower rental tool revenue and as much as 3 weeks of delays in intervention and P&amp;A projects.
However increases in deepwater drilling 2 platform decommissioning projects and a stronger completions activity drove our revenue above second quarter levels.
We are extremely pleased with the progress we made in our international results in Q3 especially coming off a strong second quarter.
We've spoken repeatedly during the past 2 years about international expansion being a key to our long-term growth and results are now becoming more apparent.
Our efforts in Saudi Arabia along with completion services inroads in Asia and West Africa contributed to growth in the quarter.
In addition we closed on a small acquisition in Argentina during the quarter which I will discuss later establishing our footprint in a country that will be emphasizing shale resource development in the years to come.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the second quarter of 2012.
In the Subsea and Well Enhancement segment revenue was $985 million and income from operations was $117 million which represents a 6% sequential decline in revenue and 35% sequential decline in operating income.
In product lines as Dave mentioned earlier pressure pumping fluid management and coiled tubing were collectively 14% lower from the second quarter.
U.S.
land revenue in this segment decreased 11% to $703 million.
We experienced a slight decline in revenue from well service rigs a product line that has held up better than most.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 16% to $128 million primarily due to an increase in platform decommissioning projects and demand for completion tools and services in the deepwater.
We estimate that downtime related to Hurricane Isaac resulted in lost or deferred revenue in this segment of approximately $13 million.
International revenue was $154 million which represents a 9% increase from the second quarter.
I will add to Dave's earlier comments about improving financial performance by mentioning that we received a completions tools order in Indonesia for our multi-zone Single Trip System.
We also had sales of screens and tools in West Africa.
Our operating margin in this segment decreased about 534 basis points in the second quarter primarily due to lower U.S.
land activity hurricane-related downtime and international well control work that did not repeat this quarter.
In the Drilling Products and Services Segment revenue was $195 million and income from operations was $63 million which represents a 2% sequential decrease in revenue but a 6% sequential increase in income from operations.
The operating margin of 32% was the highest since the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily due to business [indiscernible].
Gulf of Mexico revenue was $62 million a 1% increase over the second quarter.
And international revenue was $48 million also 1% higher sequentially.
On the international front we saw increased demand for bottomhole assemblies in Brazil and accommodations in Mexico.
U.S.
land revenue declined 5% or roughly in line with the changes to the U.S.
land rig count.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter our debt was $1.9 billion.
Debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5x as compared to 1.6x at the end of the second quarter.
Debt to total capital was 32%.
At the end of the second quarter we had $90 million drawn on our $600 million revolver.
We redeemed $150 million of our $300 million 6 7/8% senior notes during the third quarter which is why we recorded a $2.3 million loss on early extinguishment of debt.
Capital expenditures during the third quarter were about $346 million.
For the first 9 months of the year capital expenditures have been about [ph] $934 million.
From a modeling perspective in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $157 million to $161 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A the third quarter was lower than our prior expectation due primarily to adjustments for depletion timing of assets placed in services and adjustments to purchase accounting associated with our acquisition of Complete.
For the fourth quarter we think you should model a range of $137 million to $142 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $30 million to $32 million.
You should use a weighted average share count of about 159 million.
And I will now turn the call back over to Dave.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release guidance for the fourth quarter is expected to be in a range of $0.48 to $0.52 per share which means our annual guidance is at $2.62 to $2.66 per share.
The drivers for the fourth quarter will be lower U.S.
land service activity reduced demand for intervention work due to seasonality and increases in international activity.
Also as Robert mentioned we will see an increase in depreciation of $9 million to $14 million from the third quarter.
In the U.S.
land markets we anticipate lower utilization for completion and intervention services from third quarter levels as customer spending and rig count continue to migrate downward albeit at a slower pace.
We have seen some pricing pressure in coiled tubing and in elements of our fluid management business.
And our guidance includes continued pricing headwinds in these product lines during Q4.
Also the business mix in well service rigs is changing to more production-oriented work which generally carries lower margins and completions works.
That being said lower utilization continues to dominate our results in the U.S.
and we do not anticipate a recovery in utilization until 2013.
In the Gulf of Mexico we anticipate slightly lower revenue due to normal seasonality in the shallow water market.
Activity in general has not increased to the levels we experienced prior to Hurricane Isaac.
And there is no evidence that market conditions will improve during this quarter.
On the other hand deepwater drilling has resumed to pre-hurricane levels and we anticipate our results there will pick up.
International will continue to be a bright spot as it has been all year.
We have several projects and contracts that are either starting in Q4 or continuing from Q3.
Now let me run through some of the projects that we're working on.
We recently started work on snubbing projects in Saudi Arabia and in Thailand.
We will commence work on plug and abandonment projects in the Philippines and Malaysia.
We'll continue with accommodations rentals in Mexico.
The offshore market there has seen an increase in the number of vessels that are working many of which need additional crew quarters.
We'll start a pumping services contract towards the end of the quarter in Brazil.
Also we will benefit from a full quarter contribution from the Argentina acquisition I mentioned earlier.
We bought a company called GEOLOG which is a leader in cased hole wireline and we look to utilize their platform to bring in additional completion and intervention services.
I've spoken for some time about our desire to enter Argentina.
Argentina is a market that has a strong motivation to produce its resources.
The near-term focus will be on shale development and service companies with a local presence and reputation will benefit.
Overall I still believe we will maintain the margin leadership position that we have established with our business model which is based on a diversified mix of products services and geographies.
We expect to experience continued growth in the resurgent Gulf of Mexico deepwater market with our high-margin drilling products and services and increased penetration of mature and growing international markets.
Now that completes our prepared comments.
I think we'll now open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of James West of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dave curious about your thoughts on the U.S.
land market as we head into 2013.
I know you commented the Gulf will get better.
International obviously is doing very well for you guys and will next year.
So how are you thinking about the U.S.
land business and the potential for recovery there? And I guess there's been some postulated -- some are thinking second half some people are thinking first quarter.
How are you thinking about it in for this day and forward [ph]? Yes.
Overall what we're thinking about the U.S.
land market is kind of a flat E&amp;P spend from 2012 to 2013.
And I know I've heard some people talk about that perhaps being conservative but if it is so be it.
And so if you think about a flat spend we started the year in 2012 at high utilization.
We began the third quarter with utilization trending downwards as it is to the end of the year.
I don't expect to see that utilization turn on a dime on January 1.
I expect to have it happen as kind of a slow movement upward on utilization from a completions standpoint at some point during the first half of the year.
And so if you think about 2013 from an E&amp;P spend standpoint being kind of a mirror image of what we saw in 2012 in this case the first half of the year being a bit slower than the second half of the year in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then as we think about some of your product lines specifically coiled tubing had seen some pricing pressure recently.
If we do see that mirror image unfold is that enough to kind of stabilize pricing in those businesses? Well we know that utilization in coiled tubing was extremely high in the first half of the year.
And I would expect that as we see that utilization kick back up that there is some permits and maybe opportunities for price improvement.
But more than anything James this is a utilization game.
It is for us and nearly all of the completion-related services.
Most of the margin downturn that we've seen has been related to utilization not so much from a price standpoint.
When you see that utilization kick up then you'll see pretty strong margins that come along with it.
Our next question is from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Just want to continue along those -- the line of questioning there.
I mean you gave us really good guidance here for Q4 but I do want to kind of carry it into early next year I guess.
U.S.
obviously down this next quarter but it sounds like flat next year.
Your Gulf of Mexico though should we expect that to start to recover seasonally in first quarter? It sounds like that's a real bright spot for you.
And then the last part of that will be international.
It sounds like that's obviously ramping up.
Should...
Gulf of Mexico clearly is a bright spot for us.
We will probably be a bit -- of course we haven't offered you 2013 guidance yet but when we get to our next earnings call we will do that.
But Q1 it will be difficult to get too terribly optimistic about growth on the shelf during Q1 when typically that is a period where we see some seasonality and operators are a bit reluctant to start out optional projects related to intervention plug and abandonment and even decommissioning lower in that January and February weather window.
So I don't -- I would not get too terribly optimistic about shelf growth in Q1.
That being said deepwater we may see some growth from Q4 to Q1.
And in fact our expectations are that we see just kind of a continued ramp-up in overall deepwater activity as we move through the year in 2013.
And likewise I would guess the same for international is it? It sounds like you've got a nice growth trajectory there and that continue through '13 with what you know right now.
It absolutely does Marshall.
And I mean we were -- I'm excited to start to see the results of our international efforts and I think it's consistent with what I've talked to you guys about since I came onboard that it takes a little bit of time to go build out the opportunities in these international markets and we're really just beginning to see the results of that.
So nice movement from Q2 to Q3 for us.
Q4 looks strong internationally.
We've got more new contracts that start up in Q1 and into the first half of 2013.
So our visibility on new contracts in the second half of 2013 is not great at this point but first half of 2013 we've got a number of deals we're starting up so just keeps on moving in the right direction.
Our next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you how you're thinking about capital spending for Superior in 2013.
And I know you've shown a lot of discipline there.
And what kind of capital is the business going to require and I submit will be down in -- from this year? Yes.
We -- thank you Robin.
We've not finalized our 2013 budget yet.
But it's pretty clear that capital spending will be down substantially from 2012 to 2013.
And what we've said kind of publicly about that is that -- think about CapEx for this company being somewhere in the $600 million to $700 million range.
And I'd say it probably favors something close to $600 million.
We'll give you very clear indications of that when we report our fourth quarter results.
But if you're thinking somewhere in the $600 million to $700 million range that's about right which is substantially lower than where our spend is in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask you to update us and comment on the fluid management business which you anticipated would hold up better through a period of slow North America kind of drilling activity.
And is it performing to your expectations? Is it providing the kind of stability in margins and revenue that you were expecting? Yes.
Overall it absolutely is.
I mean -- now remember that business for us is one that involves a number of different elements in both -- in handling  both produced water as well as in handling completion-base water for fracturing.
The elements of the business that are more oriented towards completions have certainly seen a bit of slowdown.
But those elements related to produced water particularly in disposal wells has held up quite good.
So now where we've experienced pressure during Q3 and really in Q4 is on pricing for frac tanks which is one element of that business.
And I expect that we'll continue to see kind of deflated prices in that arena as we go into 2013.
But overall the business is performing as we anticipated.
What actually -- we got certain elements of it that pick up in the winter as we get into some of our opportunities to heat water in some of the northernmost areas which is good margin business.
Our next question is from the line of Jeff Spittel with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe if we could follow up on Robin's question about CapEx ratcheting in a little bit through next year.
You guys are going to be producing a nice slug of free cash flow.
Could you maybe kind of remind us again what the rank orders are in terms of priorities? It's still retiring another tranche of debt maybe revisiting dividends share buybacks that sort of thing.
And of course I'm sure there's some growth opportunities internationally.
Yes.
I mean I think as we think about this that we've got $300 million in 6 7/8% notes that as Robert mentioned we're in process of bringing in now.
We brought in $150 million of those.
And next use of free cash is to complete that debt repayment.
And so that probably takes us through from a free cash standpoint at least the end of Q4 if not into Q1 and maybe all the way through Q1.
We will continue to look for opportunistic acquisitions on the international side but as far as being a real consumer of that free cash don't expect it.
Because most of the deals that we're looking at are fairly small and this Argentina deal's a good example of it.
These are under $50 million opportunities and I just -- I don't see that there will be a high volume of growth going forward.
We'll -- but hopefully there are some.
And so it does leave us with some nice free cash generation during 2013.
And as I've been in conversation with the board over the last several quarters clearly as we begin to see some of that cash build we'll look for ways to get it back to shareholders.
And whether that's through a share repurchase or a dividend kind of depend -- it's going to depend on where the stock price is at that point.
And so I -- it's not a Q1 event for us I think in 2013 but as we kind of roll through the year it's something we'll talking to you a bit more about.
Did I answer your question? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes absolutely.
That was very helpful Dave.
And then maybe shifting gears back to pressure pumping.
Could you remind us I guess versus last time we talked have we parked any incremental crews? I think there's the one idle crew in the Marcellus.
And I know you have limited transactional exposure maybe some in West Texas in the Bakken.
Could you give us a sense of what's going on there? Yes I mean we've still got the 12 contracted fleets that are working.
And remember that's the bulk of our overall fracturing revenue is based on those contracting fleets.
I think there's about [ph] 5 call-out fleets that are still working today spread out between Permian Basin Mid-Continent and the Bakken.
And we've got some horsepower on the fence which will stay on the fence until we feel -- the better market condition.
And we're fortunate to have -- as big a part of our fleet is on the long-term contracts there's -- our utilization is down a bit on them as operators have gone from 7 to 5 days but they continue to produce a pretty stable result for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've only got one of them that gets repriced that's on contract by summer of next year.
Is that correct? Yes that's right.
I mean there's one that will come off contract next year.
And it's kind of -- if you think about kind of a straight line of those 12 fleets coming offline between July of '13 and Q1 of 2015 that's kind of the way they fall off.
They're not -- it's not lumpy I guess from that standpoint.
It's pretty straight line.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Hill with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think we've beaten the CT fluid and most of the other U.S.
land businesses did.
But the one I'm particularly interested in is your rental tools business and drill pipe.
And you noted in the release that you were seeing maybe a little bit of price weakness.
I think you associated it with gas basins.
Can you give us your forecast for how that business looks especially relative to the others for say the next 6 months? Yes.
I mean we've included in our guidance here the expectation of a bit of headwinds on -- in some of the U.S.
areas.
And it's mainly just a function of rig count weakening which we think there'll be continued rigs coming out of the market between now and the end of the year.
I wouldn't call it a dramatic impact and it's pretty soft landing on the rental tools side mainly because we had a market that was largely undersupplied for premium drill pipe.
We've been over the last 2.5 years adding capacity to satisfy demand for the horizontal well drilling and premium drill piping.
Now that's kind of flattened out a bit.
And you see it tugging down just a bit but it's not much of an impact Joe.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my hearing is getting bad in my old age but I thought you said you were going to do a pumping job in Brazil.
You're not that old Joe.
You're hearing it correctly.
I mean pumping -- and don't think of horizontal well fracturing by the way.
Remember there's a whole universe of pumping services related to remedial pumping and other things that we do and that's what we'll be doing down in Brazil.
We've got a couple of different contracts there some that are stimulation-oriented some that are remedial pumping-oriented that will be -- that we're starting up.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question.
One of your and I'm going call it a kind of a moderate competitor recently announced a deal with Chouest to do light well intervention that's probably going to end up in the Gulf of Mexico West Africa or Brazil.
What are your thoughts about the subsea intervention market at this point and your place in it in the next 3 years? Yes sure.
I mean we -- I would love to have wild optimism about the subsea intervention market.
I think that clearly this is an arena where our customers have not done a lot of work in recent years in the way of production enhancement related to intervention -- subsea intervention.
That being said we are reaching a point in time where many of the subsea wells that have been installed over the last 8 or 10 years have reached the end of their useful life.
And so you may not intervene on these wells to improve production during their life but you have to put them to rest.
And we are beginning to see more and more opportunities related to plug and abandonment.
We carried out some of that intervention work last year in Asia.
We actually have some of that type of work going on today in West Africa.
Remember we have the large lubricator systems.
We can also offer vessels if that's part of the package.
But I think more importantly our downhole knowledge is what's going to separate us from the pack here.
Most of the companies that are pursuing intervention are either boat companies or they're high-pressure lubricator-type builders.
We can do both of those as well as add that element of well control engineering and downhole knowledge.
So but I think -- that was kind of a long answer to your question.
I'd love to be optimistic about this for reasons of improving production in some of these subsea reservoirs but I can certainly be optimistic about it from a plug abandonment standpoint.
And that's seems to be where [ph] the landscape's going here over the next year or so.
Our next question is from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One just quickly on the $300 million of the 6 7/8% notes how much of that has been repaid already? We brought in $150 million to this point.
So we've got another $150 million left on those notes.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just as a sort of another follow-up to the margin questions.
As we think about the businesses and it's -- I'm not sure how much detail you'll get into.
But when you look at the different businesses in the product line can you give us a sense for the margin differential between the geographic regions and just sort of how we think about that direction? I mean obviously we know what's going on with the U.S.
land side.
But I would imagine the Gulf international getting kind of slowly better from here? Yes I mean you've asked a pretty broad question there.
But let me see if I can add a little color to it Stephen.
I mean generally what we see in the rentals business is highest margins in the Gulf of Mexico very close to those same margins in international albeit maybe slightly less and international U.S.
land margin's also fairly similar.
But the highest margin's in the Gulf of Mexico on the rental business.
On the -- on our intervention- and services-related businesses overall margins are best at this point in Gulf of Mexico and U.S.
land.
There -- that business is still small for us internationally but we expect as those contracts mature internationally we'd price them and believe that they will produce margins that are similar to what we see in the U.S.
So -- did I come close to answering...
Research Division</strong> No.
That does help David.
And as I sort of think about -- as you kind of go forward here it's always a little bit unclear.
But as you think about 4Q 1Q it almost sounds like we should think almost steady-ish state except for U.S.
land.
I mean is that reasonable? Yes that's very reasonable.
Our next question is from the line of Bill Sanchez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Robert just a follow-up question for you.
You referenced $13 million in lost revenue due to the hurricanes in the Gulf.
Was that strictly SW&amp;E? Yes the $13 million.
Overall it's about a $15 million or so I mean in the rentals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so Dave so when I look at SW revenue coming in at least better than we had anticipated certainly Gulf of Mexico is much stronger.
As far as just your base GOM business x hurricane certainly very good.
Just how you're seeing that continue to unfold here.
Did we start to see some pull-through from the Bullwinkle P&amp;A activity perhaps in the quarter helping that Gulf of Mexico line? Well actually we didn't see any P&amp;A activity on Bullwinkle down in [indiscernible] that's still an opportunity that sits out there for us over the course of the next few years.
So it's not helped out by P&amp;A activity.
We had as we mentioned before a couple of good decommissioning projects which were going on during Q3 and actually decommissioning business looks pretty solid in Q4.
Completions was -- actually had very good quarter in Q3 in the Gulf of Mexico on the tools side.
The vessel side was a bit hampered because of the 3 weeks -- basically 3 weeks of downtime we had on completions relative to Isaac.
So yes.
But Bill it was a lot of different elements of the business in the Gulf of Mexico that performed very well for us.
And then of course the international intervention business which performed well too.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So Dave as we think about the SWE margin line which was down at least for us more that what we had modeled here.
And clearly the loss of the hurricane-related revenue I'm sure came at very high decrementals which impacted those margins negatively.
Can you walk us through how we should think about the progression given the seasonality you're going to see fourth quarter first quarter?  Just think about overall SW&amp;E margins how those progress from here? Yes sure.
The other thing I'd point you to on those on Q3 margins they were impacted negatively by the Arctic containment system which we had intended to carry a profit with during Q3 and actually wound up being a loss because we didn't get the system deployed before the end of the quarter.
So that's part of what drags us down in that segment in Q3.
I mean as we go forward that segment is going to continue to see kind of the margin pressure that we've talked to on U.S.
land.
But if you think about the other elements the Gulf of Mexico piece and the international piece they perform at at least the same margin levels as we go forward if not in some cases a little bit better.
We'll lose that negative comparison on the Arctic containment system so that kind of helps overall margins in that segment as you go forward.
But it's -- I mean it's dominated by the U.S.
drop.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I guess just one last one.
I know it's a relatively small acquisition but that Argentinian deal that you mentioned Dave.
Anything material from a revenue standpoint just that is worth stripping out for us? It's not material in Q3 for sure but it was a small acquisition.
It's a company that though that has a long history in Argentina.
As I mentioned before they're the cased hole wireline leaders down there.
And it's more given us that opportunity from a footprint standpoint when we start to see the unconventional market take off.
And I don't want to get too aggressive about predicting when we're going to see that Bill but I like the idea that when it does begin to take off that we are positioned there.
And we're positioned there with a known entity in the market that we can leverage off of.
So you think about potential for fracturing or snubbing or premium drill pipe or coiled tubing all of those become immediately available to us as the market picks up.
Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask a question on the pressure pumping side.
I guess my impression Dave one of the reasons why you saw a relatively large revenue decline from Q2 to Q3 was that those term contracts were in most cases stepping down to minimum levels.
And so what I'm wondering is looking forward over the next couple of quarters with those contracts at more stabilized levels is it presumable that your pressure pumping revenues on the whole should be relatively stable? I know there's a spot side of the business and I know that'll factor into your answer as well.
But just trying to dial in that Q4 number here in the model.
Yes.
Well I mean leave the spot side off to the side for just a second and let's just think through the contracted side.
So we've seen a reduction in utilization on those contracted fleets as operators move from 7 days to 5 days which is within their ability in those contracts.
They will step back up in many cases we believe to 7 days.
Don't look for that in Q4.
I think it's more likely to happen at some point in the first half of the year as those horizontal well factory operators try and get back up to their 100% efficiency mark which they're intentionally working at less than 100% efficiency today.
So as I kind of think about that we are probably at that -- we are at that low point from a utilization on contracted frac fleets.
We've reached that low point during the third quarter and carry  it through during the fourth quarter.
And then at some point in the first half of the year it starts to pick back up from there.
At this point we think we're going to continue with the 5 call-out fleets that we have placed out in the market.
When the market does begin to get a bit busier in 2013 there may be opportunities to take some of what we have on the fence today and put it back to work.
But we're strongly driven to only do that when we can generate reasonable margins on those frac fleets.
So I wouldn't think of it as a first half of the year event.
More likely second half of the year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then I guess my second one would be you alluded to the completion business or you directly referred to the completion business a couple of times.
Sounded like you had a tool sale hit Q3.
And I guess I was curious looking ahead to next year the stimulation business in the Gulf and international what kind of growth potential do you have year-over-year in the completion [ph] business? Pretty nice growth potential and opportunity for us actually.
I mean the completion tool business first off they've done a great job of stepping out and establishing the product line in some international markets which was clearly part of our strategy when we bought these assets from Baker Hughes 2 years ago.
We had a nice sale in Indonesia during the third quarter.
That was for Multi-Zone Single Trip tools both 7-inch and 9 5/8 which is a real nice step forward for us there.
We were also aided by some nice West African sales of tools and screens.
As time goes on exposure to that product line and to other international markets just continues to build on itself.
So we're -- I think there'll be a point in time where in the not-too-distant future where a majority of our completion tool revenue comes from international markets and not from the Gulf of Mexico.
Today it's still highly levered to the Gulf of Mexico which as we begin to move into more of a completion cycle in 2013 on the deepwater rigs which have been reactivated since the moratorium was lifted 2013 is going to turn out to be a pretty strong year for deepwater completion tools.
The vessel has largely been underutilized since we bought these assets.
And we're down to 1 stimulation vessel.
Well actually when we bought the assets we had 2.
We let one of those vessels go I guess late last year early this year.
Today there are only 5 stimulation vessels that work in the Gulf of Mexico market.
Pre-Macondo there were 11.
As we reach a point where completions activity in the deepwater gets close to where we were at points prior to the moratorium and prior to the Macondo event I think those 5 vessels are going to be very stretched.
And I think that it's pretty clear to me that we're going to see some nice run-up in utilization on those vessels there during 2013.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of from Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is more of a remedial question.
Just looking back say to 2009 versus 2011 can you talk to some of the major changes that have occurred within your company? Or how are you guys have changed the business the strategies that you've fortaken? And what that implies for potential revenue generation whenever we're hitting a good point in the cycle versus where it was in 2009? Yes.
Sure Trey.
I mean the probably 2 most significant and fundamental things that have changed in our company since 2009 one is our U.S.
presence which is a result of acquisitions being [ph] substantially higher than it was in 2009.
And second is international presence which we continue to build out and will continue to build out over the next 5 10 years.
It's a long-term growth opportunity for us.
And in 2009 we weren't quite as focused on international growth.
So I think overall what's changed in the company? We've added some product line as a result of acquisitions and we're exposing the company to significantly more marketplace from  what in 2009 was primarily a Gulf of Mexico business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then speaking of the Gulf of Mexico I just wanted to kind of get a better understanding of how the rental tools onshore versus offshore shape up as far as contribution to your revenue? Is that something that you guys ever speak to? Yes it's a -- we're close to 1/3 1/3 and 1/3 on the rental tool business with exposure to Gulf of Mexico U.S.
land and international.
So as time goes on I think over the next few years the best growth opportunities in international -- or for rental tools are probably in the international market.
And Gulf of Mexico probably growing at a bit higher pace than U.S.
land.
But today the contribution is about equal between those 3 major geographic areas.
Our next question is from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak to -- let's come back to the CapEx question and I appreciate that you're still planning it out.
So I'll just try to reach a little farther I guess.
Maybe how -- what was the split of capital in 2012 between U.S.
land and other? About 70% of the CapEx was -- for 2012 is directed to the U.S.
land market.
That's 70% of call it a $1.1 billion number.
And what you can think about for 2013 is that -- I'm not sure what the percentage'll wind up being but it's probably an overall capital investment of -- in the $200 million to $250 million range [indiscernible] purposes [indiscernible]...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh $200 million $250 million U.S.
land? Yes something like that.
I mean the services business in U.S.
land are only going to be at a maintenance level next year.
We don't have any major equipment additions that will be made on that side.
On the rental side of the business there may be some equipment additions although I think they'll be fairly muted.
So $200 million is probably about a reasonable number to think about for 2013.
So our international spend will be up in 2013.
We'll have some Gulf of Mexico CapEx in 2013 as -- primarily relating to rental tools.
So that's -- in my mind at this point anyway that's how I kind of build up to that 6% $100 million overall spend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Got you.
That's very helpful.
Maybe just a related follow-up.
And maybe it's a bit more medium-term or long-term but in terms of your international growth do you have a sense of what CapEx is required sort of as a percentage of incremental revenue? As a percentage of incremental revenues it varies somewhat between the product lines.
I mean -- and generally if you look at -- if you think about the intervention- and pumping services-type product lines and your capital investment in those product lines is generally going to result in somewhere between $1 and $1.5 of revenue.
On the rental tool side it's not quite that much.
In the rental tools side every $1 invested is probably more like $0.80 or $0.90 of revenue.
That being said it comes at a pretty high margin in return.
So is that [ph] where you wanted to go? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Yes.
Well we thank all of you for joining us this morning.
And we'll see you out on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude Superior Energy Services' Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for using ACT Conferencing.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Superior Energy's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today February 27 2013.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also during the call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We reported quarterly revenue last night of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $290 million and adjusted net income from continuing operations of $77.6 million or $0.49 per diluted share.
The last half of 2012 and the fourth quarter in particular played out as we expected with lower completions activity in the U.S.
strong growth in the Gulf of Mexico and continued expansion in the international markets.
In the U.S.
land market during the fourth quarter our pressure pumping revenue and profitability increased from the third quarter as we had one additional frac fleet that resumed to 7-day work schedule.
However our other completions related in coiled tubing services saw revenue and profits declined during the fourth quarter.
Collectively the rate of decline was less severe than we experienced during the third quarter.
While U.S.
land revenue declined 7% international revenue increased 16% and Gulf of Mexico grew 12%.
The increase in Gulf of Mexico was particularly noteworthy as the fourth quarter usually has some seasonality.
In the international markets Latin America and Africa experienced the most growth.
This is the first quarter in which we are reporting to you in our new segment format.
One of the benefits of this new format is the ability to isolate our performance in the U.S.
completions market.
We've talked in the past about how our contracted pressure pumping model coupled with our diverse product line and basin exposure should produce solid margin performance throughout the cycle.
You can see now at our onshore work-over and completion services segment that our operating margin declined just 120 basis points from the third quarter and is down less than 700 basis points from our peak in Q2 this year.
The same type of progression has taken place in the production services segment where Q4 operating margins were down about 400 basis points from Q3.
It is less of a decline than the 600-basis point dropping from Q3 to Q2 -- or from -- in Q3 from Q2.
The largest component of this segment is coiled tubing which has probably been impacted by pricing declines more than any of our other U.S.
services.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the third quarter of 2012.
In the Drilling Products and Service segment revenue was $193 million and income from operations was $57 million which represents a 1% sequential decline in revenue and a 9% sequential decline in operating income.
The decrease in revenue and operating margins were primarily due to a decline in U.S.
land activity where revenue was off by 11% to $76 million.
We experienced lower demand for accommodations.
Rentals of premium pipes were also down primarily in the Bakken and Rockies.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 12% to $69 million primarily due to an increase in premium drill pipe and specialty rental.
International revenue was unchanged at $48 million.
In the Onshore Completion and work-over Services segment revenue was $418 million and income from operations was $47 million which represents a 1% sequential decrease in revenue and a 10% sequential decline in income from operation.
Virtually all the revenue comes from the U.S.
land market.
Our pressure pumping revenue increased 2% which was more than offset by declines in fluid management services and well service rigs.
The increase in pressure pumping activity came from both the Permian and the Bakken.
In the fluid management business transportation and storage were impacted by lower utilization and pricing.
The lower pricing was more prevalent on the storage side of the business.
The disposal well business remains solid.
Our well service rig business saw a change in business mix due to more production-related work and reduced activity for third-party rentals of accessories that support well service operation.
All of these factors combined to reduce our operating margin in this segment by about 10%.
Production services revenue decreased 1% to $369 million and operating income decreased 35% to $32 million.
The U.S.
land market was the biggest factor driving the decline in both revenue and profitability.
Revenue was $222 million down 16% from the third quarter.
Coiled tubing wireline snubbing and remedial pumping were all lower.
Coiled tubing which is the largest contributor in this segment saw both pricing and utilization declines as the market still seeks to hit bottom.
Given the largely fixed cost nature of this business much of the lower revenue impacted our margin.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 46% to $57 million primarily related to cased hole wireline work.
We also experienced increases in snubbing and pressure control tools.
International revenue increased 27% to $90 million primarily due to increased coiled tubing work in Mexico snubbing in Saudi Arabia and Thailand and cased hole wireline in Argentina.
In the Subsea and Technical Solution segment revenue was $198 million and income from operations was $10 million which represents a 5% sequential increase in revenue and a 33% sequential decline in income from operation.
The primary factor driving the lower operating margin is the expected increase in DD&amp;A.
You may recall that in the third quarter we had a lower than normal DD&amp;A due to an adjustment to the completion rate at Bullwinkle.
Both our gross profit margin and EBITDA margin in this segment improved slightly from the third quarter.
International revenue increased 16% to $96 million primarily due to an increase in well control services and higher demand for subsea construction services in the Asia Pacific market.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue declined 2% to $87 million as increased completion tools and services revenue was more than offset by a decline in well control service revenue and activity at Bullwinkle.
Turning to the balance sheet.
As of the end of the fourth quarter our debt was $1.8 billion.
Debt to EBITDA as of the end of the quarter was 1.5x essentially unchanged from the end of the third quarter.
Debt to total capital was 30% down from about 32% at the end of the third quarter.
Capital expenditures during the fourth quarter were about $227 million for the year.
Capital expenditures came in at $1 170 000 000.
From a modeling perspective in the first quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in the range of $163 million to $166 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model the range of $143 million to $146 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $28 million to $30 million.
Weighted average share count should be approximately 160 million.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook.
Okay.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in our earnings release earnings for 2013 is expected to be in the range of $1.85 to $2.35 per share.
As is frequently the case we believe the first quarter will be the low point for the year with earnings migrating higher over the remaining 3 quarters.
In fact we anticipate first quarter will be in the range of $0.37 to $0.42.
Keep in mind that we do have seasonality in that first quarter in the Gulf of Mexico and in Asia.
In terms of drivers of our annual guidance much depends on the pace of activity in the U.S.
land market.
The first quarter began as we anticipated which is not very different from where we exited the fourth quarter.
We anticipate activity will start to improve from current levels either late in Q1 or early Q2.
For -- our logic for this expectation is that if U.S.
customers' budgets in 2013 are at the same levels that they were in 2012 then they have about 9 or 10 months with which to become more active.
As activity increases we would anticipate higher utilization for completions activity and coiled tubing.
In addition demand for premium drill pipe and other drilling-related rentals will likely improve from current levels.
In the Gulf of Mexico we anticipate revenue to increase by more than 30% over 2012.
Gulf of Mexico drivers and assumptions include a slight uptick in the number of drilling rigs working in the deepwater a more active completion cycle which has already started and an increase in shallow water intervention and end-of-life service work.
International revenue is anticipated to increase by more than 25% over 2012.
Some of the drivers and assumptions for international include a ramp up in contracted service and rental tools work in Brazil a full year contracted reinspection and snubbing work in Saudi Arabia additional snubbing and end-of-life service work in Asia-Pacific and a full year of cased hole wireline work in Argentina.
We continue to realize very good traction in our international expansion efforts.
Our recent acquisition in Argentina is producing better than we anticipated.
We have pressure pumping and rental tools contracts that begin during 2013 in Brazil.
We recently completed our first coiled tubing job in Australia and all of our target markets have other near-term growth initiatives which offer further upside to our international results.
Of note international revenue in 2013 should represent more than 20% of the company's overall revenue mix.
Our visibility and confidence levels for the anticipated market outcomes are clearly greater in the Gulf of Mexico and international areas than in the U.S.
land markets.
The midpoint of our guidance does not anticipate any pricing improvement so margins are not forecast to approach where they were in Q1 and Q2 of 2012.
In fact we would anticipate that our midpoint operating margin for 2013 will be closer to where we were in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This would imply that our operating margin bottoms in the first quarter and then migrates up during the last 3 quarters of the year.
From a capital expenditure standpoint our plan calls for a range of $600 million to $700 million.
We will maintain flexibility so we can adjust our spending as the year progresses depending on market conditions.
Looking at the CapEx plan from a segment standpoint drilling products and services is allocated about 40% of the total CapEx.
Onshore completion work-over services is allocated about 15%.
Production services is allocated about 20% and subsea and technical solutions is allocated about 25%.
If you look at this from a geographic standpoint the U.S.
land markets allocated about 40% of the total CapEx most of which is maintenance.
The Gulf of Mexico is allocated about 20% and international is receiving a total of 40% of our overall CapEx in 2013.
Growth CapEx should be in the range of $375 million to $425 million.
The CapEx plan matches our expectations for activity with most of the growth CapEx slated for international and Gulf of Mexico markets.
Our goal this year is to manage our business to generate free cash flow.
So I do not anticipate increasing capital expenditure plans beyond the range that we've reported to you here unless we see a meaningful uptick in activity beyond our earnings guidance range.
And that concludes our prepared comments.
I think we'll now open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Jim Wicklund with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Jonathan.
David are you a little bit disappointed with the cadence of the return in activity in North America year-to-date? Jonathan if you've heard me -- you've heard us talk about expectations for return of activity in 2013.
It really is so far performing exactly as we thought it would.
I did not believe that we would see any uptick in activity in January and February.
I thought if we saw some activity increase in this quarter it would not be evident until March and really it felt for some time that it will not really be evident and you wouldn't see that inflection point in activity until the second quarter.
And so it's really performed as we thought it would.
So I can't say I'm upset.
I mean I wish it was busier but we didn't expect it to be busier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I guess that's kind of a slight delta why 1Q comes down a little bit off of 4Q? With the Timing.
Timing.
If you think of it this way in the fourth quarter our busiest month was October.
And I think when I say us I think I'm speaking general industry and activity-wise.
October levels were busiest began to fall in November and December was very low.
When we entered January at that same level as December and January looked a lot like December and February has not been a lot better.
And of course you've got fewer days in February too.
So it's been a start to the year that we anticipated but as I looked out there in kind of consensus numbers for Q1 it's was kind of clear that there were more people that were expecting a bit more of an upturn in February and maybe even in January.
So I heard people talking about an expected upturn in January back in November so...
Research Division</strong> I think that's a little bit of the disconnect between Wall Street and companies such as yourselves timing.
Seldom -- there is so seldom that disconnect but in this case it's there.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up.
It looks like P10 and a couple others have unidled horsepower in the fourth quarter and early part of this year.
Is that something you would do over the course of '13? I think you've got 4 fleets stacked now? We do have 4 fleets stacked and I'd love to have an opportunity to take these fleets off the shelf.
We've been pretty specific in what we require in order to do that.
We don't want to put those fleets out there working on a call-out basis at low margins.
And so we require a reasonable opportunity and whether that's contracted or call out we want to preserve the kind of margins in that business that we have today.
So let me answer your question I'd love to put those fleets out we're not budgeting to.
Our guidance does not anticipate stacked frac fleets pouring out into the operations during the course of the year.
If that happens it'll be a positive for us.
And our next question is from the line of James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> As this activity in North America does come back I mean I think the -- you're obviously expecting it and your customers are certainly suggesting that I know we haven't seen a lot to date but what is your revenue capacity before that you could get to from here before you would start to put more capital on the business to grow? So I guess where is your utilization level and where it could -- how much underutilized are you? Okay.
So a good benchmark for you will be Q2 of 2012 which was peak quarter for us.
And if you consider that we probably have because of asset additions that occurred during the quarter and later in the year assets that are clearly not being utilized today such as some of the stacked frac fleets we've probably got revenue-generating capacity that's on the order of 15% higher than what we did in Q2 of 2012.
Okay.
Okay that's very helpful.
I don't know we've looked at it specifically that way but I would expect it at least 15% revenue addition above the second quarter of 2012 was what we'd have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you don't really have the idle capacity in the international markets do you? No.
In fact we are -- we're looking at some of the underutilized assets that we have across the product lines in the U.S.
to see if there are some of those that perhaps will be transferred to international markets in the near-term and put to work.
Because our international service business is still in the very early stages and the places that we operate generally we'd put equipment in those places that's based on a certain activity level and we've got opportunities beyond that obviously.
So we may get some opportunities to transfer a few assets.
I don't think that's going to be a needle mover as far as our 2013 earnings go but moving underutilized assets is in a lot of cases a great way to grow international business.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
And then just last question for me.
I mean On the international side Saudi we got some good news over the weekend that we have increased the rig count further than we originally thought this year.
Is that one of those markets where you would look to move underutilized assets and can maybe provide color on kind of where you sit in terms of your buildout there? Yes sure.
So I mean it certainly is a market where we would consider spending our realized assets.
There'll be a lot of competition for those because there's probably I can name 4 or 5 countries that I know the managers there would be able to put coil tubing units or pumping units or cased hole wireline units to work right away.
So back to your question on Saudi.
Today we've got our pressure control and well control contracts which involve a lot of elements and of rig inspection and training which are ongoing and have been since January of 2012.
Our snubbing operations started up in Saudi in the third quarter and it's really just gotten up the full stride in the fourth quarter.
They're doing a lot of work on land right now.
Saudi Aramco has a big program for them to carry out.
I expect that snubbing unit to be there for a long long time.
In fact it wouldn't surprise me if there's some point in time later in 2013 where we have an opportunity to put a second snubbing unit in place.
Those are the product lines that we have in place there now.
Now we're in the market and we've kind of got our shingle out and clearly in business and developing that execution reputation with Aramco there will certainly be others of our service lines that we'll have opportunities with.
And the fact that they were ramping up rig counts makes those opportunities maybe a little bit easier to grab.
Nothing specific at this point but it is encouraging that they're going to pick up activity.
And our next question is from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can we get a little more clarity on some of your rig count assumptions? You mentioned bottoming in the first quarter and then gently moving up over the year.
But when we look at kind of year-over-year comparisons are we talking down 3% to 5%? And/or are you going to see a well count separation between the rig count I know we've been seeing a little bit of that and that affects pressure pumping a little more than others.
Just give us a little more color on what you're looking for there.
Yes.
So I mean general expectations instead of referencing year-over-year which I'm not sure really tells us a whole lot let me kind of talk about it from where we are today.
I expect that we will see a general upward tug on rig count as we proceed through the year.
I don't expect it to rebound to the peak levels that we saw which I guess really were kind of in the summer of 2012.
I'm not sure we exit the year at that point but it may be approaching that point.
It's a slight upward pull on rig count as the year goes forward.
I think more importantly though where we saw operators really deliberately slowed down their completions progress during the second half of 2012 I think they get back up to a much higher pace as we get into Q2 and Q3 and Q4.
Essentially what's happened we've got a few rigs that have laid down but it's really -- it really is not very representative of the overall activity decline.
And if you looked at overall completions count which I know there's not a perfectly reliable statistic for that completions count was down during the second half of 2013 -- 2012.
I expect that we catch up a little bit of that in 2013.
I've been asked the question does that represent an inventory of wells that are waiting to be frac-ed? Yes.
Think of it this way.
I mean we're at optimum pace an operator may have a frac fleet that's following a rig by 2 weeks.
They slowed that down to a point where maybe that frac fleets following the rig by 5 or 6 weeks and of course what builds in that process is an inventory of wells that are waiting to be frac-ed.
That's what we begin to work our way through that causes the uptick we think we'll see in the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the obvious follow-up to that is it does seem from your earlier commentary that the pressure pumping side in the U.S.
seems to have reached some kind of activity bottom.
Not that we're expecting immediate turnaround in pricing but at least from the activity standpoint we're ramping up and what you just said confirms that should be directionally an improving market is that fair? That's absolutely a fair comparison a fair characterization.
I'll add this as well.
I mean as this -- as we begin to see a little bit better utilization in fracturing you're probably going to hear different things from different companies about how they are seeing that because it's very customer-specific and in certain cases it's to be very basin-specific as well.
And so you may have one company that is their best customer is getting busier the last week of February but another customer that's not getting busier until the end of March.
And so the commentary from one company to the next could be -- there could be a lot of variability in that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes we're seeing that already.
Does that translate to coil tubing as well I mean kind of same directional move? Yes I think generally so.
I mean it will be customer-specific and it will be basin-specific.
But overall I do expect that we'll see higher coiled tubing utilization that goes along with this drive get wells completed.
And our next question is from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Dave just wanted to clarify on the Q1 guidance because it sounds like I guess the U.S.
business is kind of moving sideways in Q1 for you guys with coil maybe drifting a little lower and pumping maybe even a little higher.
Not to put words in your mouth but is the guidance purely -- or the delta from Q4 is that purely seasonal? Or maybe is there something else you want to hone in on? No I mean there is a seasonality in Q1 we always see.
And we generally see some seasonality in Q4.
We went through the fourth quarter in the Gulf of Mexico with pretty good weather patterns.
These weather patterns have changed since the start of the year and we're seeing more fronts that have blown through.
And what that means to us is the optional work remedial work plug-in abandonment work decommissioning work is not going to be very active as a result of seasonality.
But I think more than anything what you're seeing in Q4 is a reflection of a couple of months of activity that are at December levels as opposed to in Q4 we only have one month of that type of low activity.
You see what I'm saying? We did not see a rebound in activity after the first of the year.
We saw a drop-off during December and we kind of stayed at those low levels really well into February.
And so it's just an extension of that month if you will.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I wanted to follow up on you mentioned you'd love to reactivate some of frac fleets.
Are you having any discussions right now? Well I mean I think we're constantly having discussions.
And I don't know that those would necessarily materialize anytime soon.
I mean we've got -- we do have a relatively high standard I guess for what our expectations are in margin generation from one of those stacked frac fleets.
And we've been pretty consistent in this message.
We don't think that we have to do anything in the way of equipment activation in order to hold the market share position.
Market share does not drive us in fracturing.
Instead margins do.
And so we would really like to put that equipment to work but we're not going to put it to work if it means a substandard margin.
And there's still a lot of capacity out there right now.
It's not been an incredibly busy market.
So when there's an opportunity to put a call-out fleet we really have to be in a position where we have demonstrated to the customer how good our execution is relative to somebody else for them to accept our price.
And our next question is from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just hone in on the Gulf of Mexico for a minute.
You indicated up 30% this year over '12.
Are you back to or perhaps beyond pre-Macondo levels of activity? And how has your business changed from the pre-Macondo period? Yes so -- and to answer the question our pace of activity today is above pre-Macondo levels.
We are generating more out of deepwater areas with the same product lines if you do it on a comparative basis than we did pre-Macondo.
We've of course added completion services to the mix during Macondo.
So I mean overall exposure in deepwater is considerably more than it was before Macondo.
Some of the things that are driving better performance in addition to just the rig count the overall rental tool revenue is up per rig by on the order of 15% to 20%.
And that is largely driven by requirements that operators have from BSEE now for I think a larger pipe sizes or more robust connections or whatever it may be in order to satisfy BSEE requirements for a permit compared to pre-Macondo.
So that is the primary driver.
I'll say this as well about the Gulf of Mexico that I mean we're seeing some nice uptick in activity and interest on the shelf which was really unexpected on our part until I don't know probably within the last 3 or 4 months we've kind of been developing this thought that the shelf activity was going to increase.
And it seems to be driven by mainly oil and driven by a lot of the legacy big operators in the Gulf of Mexico that since Macondo have not had an opportunity to go out and exploit a better oil price.
And so I think we're going to see a nice uptick in activity on the shelf as the year progresses as well.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I noticed you also mentioned a little end-of-life field services in the Gulf and in Asia I think which I had heard you mentioned in a favorable way so much here recently.
So the -- how -- are you having any discussions with operators about some of these big platform decommissioning projects potentially others like the Bullwinkle or others you've done in the past or is this more your basic business line? It's more the basic business.
And we seem to constantly have a conversation going on with somebody about potentially a big decommissioning project or a big asset like Bullwinkle.
We certainly are not budgeting on any of those to be part of this 30% increase in Gulf of Mexico year-over-year.
If they happen it'd be additive to that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that sand control business the vessels that you bought how is that? Doing pretty good.
We're down to one vessel.
We decommissioned one of the stimulation vessels about this time last year.
And we've got one vessel the market for stimulation vessels in the Gulf is very tight right now.
I think there are 5 boats compared to 11 that worked in the market pre-Macondo.
So just compare activity levels to where we are today versus pre-Macondo obviously with less than 50% of pre-Macondo capacity.
That market has tightened up.
And so I can tell you for the first time since we've bought those assets we're pretty pleased with the performance of the stimulation vessel.
And our next question is from the line of Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Next up is Jeffrey Spittel with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe if we could start out talking about your assumptions.
I think you spoke to your pricing assumption at the midpoint of guidance being basically flat U.S.
onshore.
Is it safe to assume that the high-end of the range assumes maybe a little bit incremental pricing traction and the low end involves a little bit of deterioration from where we are today? It does not.
We did not bake any price increase assumptions into the guidance we gave you.
A better way to think about the range is think about when we really see inflection point on activity and how steep that activity increase is.
And so if we start to see a nice uptick in utilization activity in March and that's what we see continue or continue to build as the year goes on that probably defines the higher end of guidance.
If it's an inflection point we don't see more obviously until late April or early May then it's probably towards the lower end of guidance.
Do you see what I'm saying? LLC Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
Let me tell you something that inflection point in understanding the pace of that rate of that or slope of that inflection point I guess is the most difficult part of guiding -- giving you guidance for 2013.
It is really hard to see.
And I'll draw you to the corollary to that which was the downward decline that we witnessed during Q3 which we were out in front directionally of what was going to happen in Q3 of 2012 but it happened at a pace that was faster than we thought it was.
And we've got just exactly the opposite challenged now in trying to predict this uptick.
LLC Research Division</strong> Appreciate that clarification there.
Switching over I'm surprised we haven't gotten to this one yet but I'll fall on my sword and ask it.
Could you rank order your priorities in terms of use of cash? I'm sure you've been getting plenty of questions about the potential dividend et cetera and what might the timing of the valuing of the option be? So that's a good question and you didn't need to fall on your sword for it.
Debt repayment is at the top of the list.
We've been very clear about that.
We started paying down debt buying in $300 million in 6 7/8 notes at par beginning about August of 2012.
That will be the primary use of free cash really in the first half of the year.
As we get out to the second half of the year we do have an expectation that we'll begin to build cash at that point.
And I'll continue to have conversations with the board about a share repurchase authorization perhaps or a dividend.
What I know is this.
I think it's really important for us to demonstrate to investors that we are going to be disciplined in our capital spend and acquisition strategy and disciplined to the point that we are free cash generators and return free cash to shareholders.
It's important to me.
I can't tell you exact timing on when that happens but I think it is important for us.
And when we get to a point where we're ready to do that we will let you know.
And we now have Byron Pope.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just with regard to the 2013 growth CapEx they've read a lot of the international markets where you guys have contracts lined up.
I'm just wondering is that 2013 international growth CapEx part of what's driving that international growth or are you laying the footprint for will there be infrastructure for growth beyond 2013...
It's more adding equipment to infrastructure that we've already put in place.
I mean there is some infrastructure in that CapEx but it's a fairly small percentage of it.
When I think about the assets that are going in they're primarily -- listen your standard intervention and pumping and rental tool assets and that is the dominant piece of that overall capital growth capital in 2013.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then fair to think about growth capital for -- allocated for the U.S.
Gulf being more skewed toward the downhole tool side? Yes that's exactly right.
I mean we're in a very fortunate position in the Gulf of Mexico and end-of-life services and in intervention services.
We've got a very mature and significant market share position in those services and they're assets that have been really largely underutilized since Macondo.
And so we are able to take that investment and put it to work.
And the capital efficiency are primarily on the rental tools side mainly associated with deepwater.
And of course our returns on those investment are extremely high.
So that's the place we really like to make investments.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a comment the additional color on the business segments is incredibly helpful guys so appreciate you guys doing that.
And our next question is from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just starting off the success in pressure pumping that you indicated in the press release is largely based on I guess improvement in the already contracted fleet.
Not a lot of commentary thus far with regard to the spot market.
Just wanted to get your thoughts around that and as much as the spot market exists for superior right now and where that stands and the view here early in the year? Well I mean we've got -- we do have minimal exposure to the spot market.
I always want to be cautious in advising the analyst investors here that we're talking to that when we make comments about the spot market we are not a huge player in the spot market.
We've got 6 fleets in total that participate in that spot market today.
The concentration in Permian Basin and the Bakken.
So we really aren't the best people in the world to talk to about the spot market from that standpoint.
But I won't dodge your question.
Research Division</strong> And Dave I guess I only ask just gauging where we stand there are there any even feelers out there for getting fleets back to work as it's been kind of rumored around the space? Is anybody actually seeking these levels to kind of term up fleet? What's the state of kind of the next crew in if you will? Yes not at this point.
I mean I think that -- I would be very surprised if we saw customers looking for contracted fleets over the course of the next few months.
There's just too much capacity out there.
And when you do a contracted fleet as we have in the past I mean in a lot of cases operators are going to look at the price for that contracted fleet and unless they are one of the absolute most efficient horizontal well factory type companies they're going to see is a contracted fleet but on today it may cost a little bit more than call out fleet does.
And so I'd just be surprised if that happened.
I mean it could happen with one of our current contract type customers that they've got a different commitment level I guess to their activity than somebody else.
But I don't want to lead you in the direction that I think it's going to happen.
I don't believe it will.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
Dave just kind of taking it back kind of a year here post combination coiled tubing market fundamentals looked about as good as anywhere in the franchise and you obviously have a leadership position there.
So I just wanted to kind of get your reset as we go into '13.
Has your feel towards that market changed at all? I mean the fundamentals looked pretty impenetrable given the backlog of kind of remedial work and the whole kind of thesis you have laid out there.
Just wanted to get your thoughts on coiled in general right now and the state of the market? I mean a lot of superlatives for the quarter but that really sticks out from Q3 to Q4 in terms of getting results.
Yes well no you're absolutely right about that.
So let me give you a little bit of take on coiled tubing.
We fully expect that coiled tubing will continue to be the tool of choice that the most efficient operators and most people drilling horizontal wells want to have on location in order to drill up plugs and clean out sand when they've got an early screen out.
We saw a lot of operators in the second half of the year that pulled coiled tubing in its off location and put a well service rig out which is a cheaper way for them to carry out that same operation.
It takes longer though.
It's less efficient.
They're making up too much pipe as opposed to having a continuous reel that goes in and does the job for them.
And so when they are intentionally slowing down they moved off that tool of choice.
It's clear to me that they will pick that tool of choice back up as they attempt to get more efficient in their operations during 2013 and beyond.
So I think the future for coiled tubing as a horizontal completions technique I think is still solid.
We have not done a lot of remedial work in the coiled tubing industry for -- really for the last 4 years.
And one of the things that's going to have to happen industry-wide for us to do more remedial work is we've got to develop people to do it.
And if that sounds strange to you I'll tell you this to be an operator on our coiled tubing unit that's working in conjunction with the horizontal well completion it's not nearly as complicated a job as being a coiled tubing unit operator that goes into an existing wellbore to solve some type of remedial problem.
They are almost completely different jobs.
And most of our supervisors as an industry and most of our crews have been doing nothing for the last 4 years but completions work.
But anybody new to the coiled tubing business in the last 4 years may have never seen a pressure job.
And so it's clear to me that coiled tubing will become a much more dominant part of the remedial market as we have capacity to be available to address that market.
But it's going to take a little bit of time for us as an industry to get people that are checked out to go do that.
And our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to touch on the revenue guidance for both the Gulf of Mexico and international and it has been this touched on before.
But on the Gulf of Mexico side Dave can you remind me what sort of a revenue split looks like between deepwater and shallow? It's pretty easy to see line of sight growth on the deepwater side but given the life of your nature of what you guys have evolved in in shallow water pretty impressed that the implied growth it looks like you're generating on shallow water.
Will that rival the 30% you're going to see overall? So on a percentage basis deepwater exposure is climbing more in 2013 than 2012.
Overall on the mix we're still more weighted to the shelf than we are deepwater.
It's about 2/3 shelf 1/3 deepwater something like that.
But deepwater is growing substantially more than shelf does.
And what that is Dan that's rental tools and think about the way deepwater rigs ramped up during the course of the year very much second half weighted.
And so a light deepwater exposure in the first half of the year in 2012 is really what's making that comparison look so big.
The other side of that of course is completions.
And completions which is both a shelf and deepwater exposure but deepwater is a bigger revenue potential in total than the shelf on completions and we had very poor completions activity in 2012.
It's really only started to increase in the last couple of months.
And the reason for that is really not too complicated.
When the moratorium was lifted some of the first work that we did post moratorium in the first rigs that went out were doing completions work.
These were wells that have been drilled with TD operators were forced to shut down as a result of the moratorium and the first thing that they did when they came back out was complete.
And so much of that work was carried out in late 2011.
By the time those rigs reached 2012 they were drilling and not completing.
And of course any of the new rigs that came in during the course of 2012 are going to be drilling before they complete.
And so we kind of got out of cycle on completions work and are much more in cycle with completions work in 2013 than we were in 2012 and that benefits us both on the shelf and deepwater but primarily in deepwater.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
That's a helpful answer.
And then I guess the question on international would be with regard to that growth rate you've got to say phenomenal and you're lapping friendly comps first half '12 versus first half '13.
But the focus on international has appropriately been on the service lines.
But on the rental side of the international business are you deploying sufficient capital there to kind of break out of that $45 million to $50 million top line per quarter band looking into 2013? Yes I mean we are.
We are a bit more focused now if I compare and contrast our investments in rental tools on the international side today to maybe where they were 2 years ago a lot more focus on premium drill pipe and stabilizers whereas 2 years ago we probably still had some accommodations to the mix.
We've got some areas in accommodations that we've actually shrunk internationally a little bit over the course of the last year and expansion in some of the downhole wells is taking its place.
But it's well funded.
I've made this comment about rental tools for the last 3 years pretty consistently.
It's hard to turn down the downhole rental guys when they get an expansion opportunity because the margin and returns are so good.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll cram one more on.
I didn't hear this specifically on pressure pumping.
You had the one crew step back up near end or during Q4.
Have you stepped any other term contracted crews up from contract minimums as the calendar turned to 2013? The answer to that would be no.
So maybe I'll set the stage here for anybody else who's listening that wants to understand that.
We had -- our utilization on the contracting fleets impacted in the second half of the year as we went from 7-day utilization on 9 fleets to 5-day utilization on most of the fleets.
And so we maxed out at 9 fleets on 7-day utilizations dropped all the way to 3.
By the end of fourth quarter we had 4 and our expectation exiting the first quarter would be 5.
And our next question is from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I wondered -- and the breakout is very helpful.
We appreciate you getting it to us a couple of days ago too Greg.
But how much are you willing to share with us if we look at the different segments obviously outside of onshore completions how big a margin differential is there between the 3 geographies? Dave can you give us some color on that for the other segments? I'll try.
In rental tools it's not very much.
Rental tools tend to be very consistent whether it's -- between the markets.
I will say this Gulf of Mexico margins and rental tools are probably always going to be a little bit better than the U.S.
land or international simply because we're able to run a lot of revenue out of 1 base or 2 bases.
Do you see what I'm saying? This is the way the business has worked.
And so but in general in general the margins in rental tools are going to be fairly consistent.
We don't have anything international in the completion segment so I kind of skipped that one.
On production the production segment overall I would expect that margins if you think about -- if you think about midpoint margins in the cycle to be similar.
They will vary from time to time.
Right now international margins in that side of the business may be a little bit better than U.S.
margins just because of where we are in the cycle in the U.S.
But if you thought about this comparing international to U.S.
at kind of a midpoint normalized business model they ought to be about the same.
In the Subsea Technology segment international is going to be hindered in that segment by Hallin Marine performance and the construction work in Asia construction support work in Asia until we see some improvement in that overall market.
And so in that case our Gulf of Mexico margins will be better than international margins.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then the only other follow-up I have is when you look at it and you talk about free cash flow usage are there geographic areas that you're either relatively small in or nonexisting in which you are looking at currently? The answer to that would be yes.
I mean there are still several international markets that are kind of on our radar screen from a surveillance standpoint.
I mean I'm happy to name a few those.
Kuwait would be one of them.
Indian would be one of them.
These are places that we think offer near-term potential for us but we're not operating today.
And so those are on our map and of course there's places as well that we have really just started that we're not generating a lot in the way of revenue or earnings in places like Malaysia and I'd say even Indonesia is kind of in that category.
So we're at different stages with each one of these expansions and there's more to come I'm sure.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could come back to the overall guidance for '13 please just to understand it further and if you'll allow me to tee up the question.
If you start with $0.40 of earnings and it's a low point because of various important seasonal reasons and you're growing the Gulf and international it seems like the low-end of your range would imply kind of very little improvement in U.S.
land.
Is there some aspect I'm perhaps missing that we should be aware of just maybe on the rig side? Listen Brad you're not missing anything.
I mean I think it improves from Q1.
We don't repeat the same earnings in Q1.
Obviously the low end of our guidance range is $1.85 not $1.60 right? I mean it doesn't stay the same but the range is dependent on when we begin to see this utilization and activity increase in the U.S.
And it's hard to pinpoint when this will happen.
And what we've tried to do in this range of guidance is to say okay well if that increase begins and it begins at a pretty healthy pace in March then we're probably at the higher end of our guidance.
On the other hand if it's an increase that we really don't see materialize until say April or May and it's not in a very rapid pace then we would probably tell you that it's going to be lower end of the guidance.
And the iterations between there is just that.
I mean do you see the increase in April or do you see it in May? And is there a rapid increase or is it a slow increase? I mean that's all what we try to consider as we put that range together.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I understand and I think I understand how you're approaching it in general.
Perhaps I'll ask you or ask something a little bit just different.
If the pace of increase is less dramatic than you might hope is there that much more pricing pressure in some of the areas where there has been some whether it's in segments of fluid handling or coiled tubing if there's a sluggishness about getting back to the more efficient method for example.
I mean is that part of what you might be embedding in on the risk side? The answer to that would be no.
I mean if we were to continue at current activity levels say through April which -- or May which I don't think happens but if we were there's probably some incremental downward pricing pressure in coiled tubing and maybe in storage assets and maybe a few other things.
But remember most of the price decline that we witnessed in those service lines happened in Q3.
That was the biggest point.
We saw a slight reduction then from Q3 into Q4.
And so I mean that starts to define for you kind of a bottom and I'd be a bit surprised to see prices migrate substantially down from where they are now particularly with the mindset that service companies have today which we're about to get busier.
And so when you're in that competitive pricing situation and at the back of your mind you're thinking I'm about to get busier you're not going to be as free to throw that additional discount out as you would be if you were of the frame of mind that I'm about to get a lot slower.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes sense.
What we chose to do is to not bake any changes in the price into that guidance and make that assumption that we were at or near the bottom in all the product lines from a pricing standpoint.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Maybe an unrelated follow-up please.
I appreciate all that.
On the fluid handling side perhaps you could remind us presumably there's the strategic advantage of being a comprehensive supplier you and others I think have suggested that.
But given pressure in storage for example does that become -- is there a different logic that you might take in terms of how many tanks you would own and how compelling it needs to be that -- to be able to have that offering? Is it perceived to be as important as ever to be able to kind of offer all the pieces if you can? It is as important as ever.
And that doesn't mean with every single customer and every opportunity but overall to be the company that's hauling water to be the company that stores the water and be the company that disposes the water and in many cases be a company that supplies the water from a source standpoint we think that is important.
We think that offers us a competitive advantage versus somebody that just owns frac tanks or just owns water haulers.
And so back to your question on storage specifically I don't think it means that you want to have -- that we would be looking to get out of the storage business or sell storage not at all.
Are we making new investments in frac tank? Probably not.
In the case that we saw completions activity significantly increase at sometime in the future but that's not 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understanding you're not focused on adding organic capacity to that business but other M&amp;A opportunities within that business that are attractive that maybe fall outside of what you've identified in terms of CapEx but is there a consolidation move within that business that's interesting? So I'm going to answer -- I'm going to talk around your question and probably not answer it and I apologize in advance.
But there are lot of strategic opportunities in the water business.
And if you think about where this business has come from over the last 5 years and the importance that exist in the market on water sourcing water storage water disposal all of those things I mean this is a business that from an important standpoint has migrated in a really really short period of time to where it is today.
And I think normally when you see any business that's like that that is growing so quickly in importance that we hadn't reached an endpoint on what that business optimum business model looks like yet.
And I think one of the things that we spend a lot of time thinking about is where directionally does this business go? What is the -- what does a water management company need to look like 3 years from now or 5 years from now? What capabilities do they need to have? What kinds of assets they need to have? And what kinds of places they need to operate? And so when you think about that maybe that involves some acquisitions maybe that involves some new technology maybe it involves some other things that we're not participating in right now that we need to either grow organically or acquire.
So I mean there's a lot of room for that business to grow.
Acquisitions could be a part of that.
They have been a part of it for complete and legacy complete organization to get that business where it is today.
It could be in the future too.
And I'm showing there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Thank all of you for joining us today.
We'll see you out on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Superior Energy's First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today Friday April 26 2013 and I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein Executive Vice President.
Please go ahead sir.
All right good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Okay.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
Last night or yesterday afternoon at the close of market we reported quarterly revenue of $1.1 billion EBITDA of $278 million and net income of just under $64 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
The first quarter unfolded as expected with increasing U.S.
land activity in March and seasonality in the Gulf of Mexico and Asia-Pacific markets.
Despite a 3% decline in the Baker Hughes rig count our U.S.
land revenue was flat from the fourth quarter levels as completions activities started to increase during the month of March.
Our pressure pumping and well service rig revenue and profits increased from the fourth quarter.
In fact it was the second consecutive quarter that our pressure pumping revenue and profits rose due to higher utilization of our contracted horsepower.
Coiled tubing revenue on U.S.
land was essentially unchanged from the fourth quarter.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 2% from the fourth quarter levels.
The first quarter is typically burdened by seasonality especially for shallow water optional work.
As a result a 2% decline is a better outcome than one would think and it speaks of the resilience of the Gulf of Mexico market.
Drilling Products and Services revenue from the Gulf grew almost 2% as the deepwater market remained strong.
We did experience slightly lower margins and anticipated as a result of low margins on some Gulf of Mexico decommissioning projects.
To put the Gulf of Mexico recovery in perspective our first quarter revenue was 36% higher than it was during the first quarter of 2012.
International revenue decreased 17% from the fourth quarter due mainly to seasonal declines in our subsea construction business in the Asia-Pacific market and well control work that did not repeat during the quarter.
The international revenue decline shows up in the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment.
We actually experienced growth in our Drilling Products and Services international revenue by 4% and our Production Services international revenue by 7%.
We had a strong message to the field during the first quarter to keep costs and capital spending in check in light of the U.S.
land market uncertainty.
And as usual the field performed very well for us.
The result is that we're still very much in line to be a strong free cash generator during 2013.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I'll make comparisons to the fourth quarter 2012.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $194 million and income from operations was $57 million which represents a 1% sequential increase in revenue and 1% sequential decline in operating income.
The reduction in operating margin is primarily a function of business mix with accommodations growing at a faster rate than the downhole drilling tools.
International revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate at 4% to $50 million due to increased rentals of accommodations in Europe.
We also experienced increases in specialty rentals in Latin America.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 2% to $70 million which was offset by a 2% decline in U.S.
land revenue to $74 million.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was $426 million and income from operations was $50 million which represents a 2% sequential increase in revenue and a 6% sequential increase in income from operations.
All of the revenue comes from the U.S.
land market.
Our pressure pumping revenue increased 8% due to an increase in volumes pumped in the Eagle Ford and Permian Basin.
Well services revenue increased 7% due to improved utilization.
In the Fluid Management business revenue declined 7% primarily due to lower transportation and storage utilization due to weather in Colorado and Oklahoma as well as a shift to piping water bursts is hauling in the DJ basin [ph].
Production services revenue decreased 1% to $367 million and operating income decreased 11% to $28 million.
U.S.
land revenue declined 3% to $215 million primarily due to the declines in snubbing and remedial pumping.
The biggest story is that coiled tubing was essentially flat as moderate revenue declines from the northeast in the Anadarko basins were offset by activity increases in the Bakken and Eagle Ford.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue declined 5% to $54 million primarily due to seasonal factors which lead to a decline in coiled tubing and wireline activity.
International revenue increased 7% to $97 million primarily due to increased production testing activity in Argentina remedial pumping in Brazil and cementing activities from our recent acquisition in Columbia.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $148 million which represents a 25% decline from the fourth quarter.
This segment's loss from operations was $6 million compared to $10 million income from operations in the fourth quarter.
This is a segment that is impacted most by seasonality both in the Gulf of Mexico and in Asia Pacific.
The Gulf of Mexico revenues declined 4% to $84 million primarily due to lower well control work partially offset by an increase in completion tools and products.
International revenue was down 50% to $48 million due to lower-subsidy construction work and well control projects in the fourth quarter that did not repeat.
U.S.
land revenue increased 8% to $16 million.
The costs from this segment are relatively fixed so the decremental margins are high.
In addition as Dave mentioned we had lower margins on 2 decommissioning projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
Those margins will not repeat moving forward.
Turning to the balance sheet.
As of the end of the first quarter our net debt was $1.8 billion.
The debt to EBITDA as of the end of the quarter was 1.5x and debt to total capital was 30% both of which are essentially unchanged from year end.
Capital additions during the quarter were about $130 million.
Our G&amp;A in the first quarter was lower than our fourth quarter run rate due to several items including: Compensation-related expenses; insurance and risk management expenses; our net foreign currency gain; and bad debt expenses.
As our business improves we do anticipate and these additional expenses on some of these areas that I just mentioned.
As a result we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $157 million to $160 million for the second quarter.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range to $152 million to $155 million.
Interest expense should be in the range of about $27 million to $29 million and weighted average share count should be approximately $160 million.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release there is no change to our earnings guidance range for 2013 of $1.85 to $2.35 per share.
Our first quarter was in line with the midpoint of our expectations.
The advance of the U.S.
land market continues to be the biggest variable in our 2013 expectations.
Improvements in the completions market did not really become evident until the second half of March but the fact that we witnessed those improvements during the first quarter does give us confidence that we are off bottom and we'll see an improvement in the second quarter.
The pace and slope of the activity increase is still not perfectly apparent and remains the reason for the wide range of our guidance.
We did see some increases in rig count towards the end of the first quarter and that continues into April.
I expect that rig count will continue to improve during the course of Q2 and through the remainder of 2013.
Those increases will be directed to both oil and gas-related activities although we believe that the only gas shale basin that we'll see any significant increase will be in the Marcellus.
Oil-directed activity would probably be increasing at a more rapid pace but in certain areas particularly the Permian Basin activity is constrained as infrastructure buildout continues and operators seem to be waiting for infrastructure before scaling up completions in drilling activity.
To reiterate what we said on our last call the midpoint of our guidance does not anticipate any pricing improvement.
So margins are not forecasted to approach where they were in Q1 and Q2 of 2012 but should improve from the first quarter of 2013 as utilization improves.
We continue to be encouraged by our results in the international market.
Although our headline number of international revenue is down from Q4 the reductions were in well control and subsea construction.
The focus of our international development continues to be in Drilling Products and Services and in Production Services and both of these segments realize gains on a sequential basis.
Latin America and Asia are really leading the way for us.
In Colombia we closed on an acquisition that gives us very nice capabilities in pressure pumping which I expect we will soon expand to include Intervention Services.
Our Rental business in Brazil continues to expand and we've now received official notice from Petrobras of a land stimulation contract that we will be delivering equipment for in the second half of 2013.
I will remind you that the bulk of our growth CapEx in 2013 is devoted to the international business and growth is proceeding as planned.
The Gulf of Mexico market is also advancing as planned.
Although we always see a seasonal slowdown in Q1 the rest of the year is shaping up nicely for us.
I don't think that there is a diversified company out there that is in a better position to capitalize on Gulf of Mexico growth with our very mature market -- very mature service network on the Gulf coast and well-established rental tool brands.
Our market share position in all of the product lines of -- that we offer in the Gulf Mexico continues to be very strong.
The bottom line here is that we are executing as planned.
Our people in the field and our management team continue to do a great job in building this company in the right way with a focus on safe and efficient operating performance.
And that concludes our prepared comments.
We'll open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave it seems like you guys kicked butt -- at least in our model kicked butt on the completion work over side and also drilling product side.
The real shortfall for us was the subsea.
How much of that subsea was seasonality versus kind of onetime stuff? What I'm trying to really get to is should we expect that business to improve meaningfully the second half of the year? Yes Marshall you can actually expect it to improve in the second quarter.
Most of what we saw in the decline in that business from Q4 was seasonality and it's primarily in Hallin Marine in the subsea construction business in Asia which since -- Superior acquired that business in 2010.
Q1 is always the low point.
And I -- their business has improved consistently year in year out in the second quarter and I expect it to do the same this year.
The other component that was off from Q4 is well control.
And this is primarily in the area of the emergency response work that we do in well control and that's always a difficult part of our business to predict.
They had a good strong fourth quarter and not a lot of work in the first quarter.
So I can't say that that's going to recover to fourth quarter levels in Q2 but it should probably be better in most quarters than it was in Q4.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Second question.
Drilling Products and rental tools margins were just awesome.
Can you keep -- can you sustain those? I don't see why not.
I mean where those margins and return levels are in that product line are consistently what industry has seen in that product line over a long period of time.
I have been looking at rental companies for 20 years and as you well know I coveted those in my prior life and real happy to have one now.
Because historically performance in that space has been extremely good.
And where we are today I think is kind of midmarket point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes so I guess I translate that to me you're -- that's where a lot of your CapEx will continue to go? It always is.
I mean it's -- we're very competitive from a capital expansion standpoint in this company.
And certainly the downhole rental guys always get their share of it because their margins and returns are so predictable.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Your guidance range wide enough to drive a truck through that's good.
Can you talk about what would make you hit the bottom into the range and what would make you hit the top end of the range? And I understand the easy question is depending on activity.
But is there anything you can do to influence or what can you do to influence the upper or lower ends of those range? Well I mean clearly from an execution standpoint the cleaner our execution is in the field the more it favors getting into the higher end of that range.
But I would certainly say that the primary reason for the wide range that we have is uncertainty of U.S.
land market.
And I don't mean to say uncertainty and cause you to believe that I have a negative spin on that because I don't.
We do believe that we'll continue to see activity gains as the year progresses in the U.S.
land market but the pace of that activity gain is it's difficult to predict.
And us -- and I can use Q1 as a perfect guidepost for this.
We saw very low activity in January.
We saw very little activity in February.
And I got to tell you the first couple of weeks of March did not look real good either.
Most of the gains we saw in utilization and activity were realized in the second 2 weeks -- or the last 2 weeks of March.
And so that gives me good confidence going to the second quarter that we picked up off a bottom and should have a nice quarter in Q2 relative to Q1.
But how fast that activity increase continues to advance during the second quarter really sets the stage for the rest of the year.
Because if you think about advance it means that we've got a certain pace of activity on the first day of the quarter and expect to have a bit higher pace of activity at the end of the quarter.
And that sets the stage for Q3.
So I know I'm rambling a little bit here but it really is the explanation for the wide range.
And there are still unknowns about how activity advances even during the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> At least we're seeing a pick up.
That's a start.
My follow-up question if I could.
I assume that you guys are seeing some divergence to as opposed to revenue generation in rig count? Vis-a-vis the constant comment of rig efficiency fewer rigs to fill the same amount of footage in your wells? Have you guys seen that separation yet? Yes I don't know that that the separation is usually apparent.
But it is clear that efficiency gains and -- are driving utilization.
And for us it's -- our utilization gets measured in a variety of ways.
You guys have heard me talk about on the frac side 7 days versus 5 days utilization.
But even on those crews that are working 7 days we're seeing improved utilization as the crews execute better and those operators become more efficient.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask you about the pick up in completions in late March.
Do you think there was kind of an -- that the E&amp;P companies are working off an inventory of uncompleted wells? And so does that late March pick up continue in April? And -- because the drilling rig count's been kind of flat but it seems like everybody in the industry experienced more activity at least in terms of completions in the first quarter but without a pick up in the rig count? Robin I don't necessarily think of this in terms of a backlog.
I think of it more in terms of an urgency to get wells completed a bit sooner.
And we saw this lack of urgency in the second half of 2012 in many cases it was -- that lack of urgency was demonstrated in the form of going from a 7-day completion operation to a 5-day completion operation.
What we saw in late March was a greater sense of urgency.
And that does mean that people get wells completed closer to when they were finished drilling than they probably were in the second half of 2012.
So I don't know if I answered your question perfectly.
It's more urgency to get wells completed certainly that we begin to in see late March and I do think that continues through the second quarter.
And I think some of that lack of urgency early this year was operators deliberately going slower in order to give infrastructure particularly midstream infrastructure a chance to catch up.
Research Division</strong> Yes right.
So I want to turn to the coiled tubing business for a minute.
And just if you could describe what the pricing competition is there? Utilization of your coiled tubing units and have -- are we close to the or at or past the bottom of the severe pricing competition in coiled tubing? Well I think that we are.
I mean certainly there are differences from one basin to the next.
But overall what we saw in the coil business in Q1 was utilization in pricing that was relatively flat with where we were in Q4 and you may see a little bit of price competition in one basin you may see a little bit of opportunity improve price in another basin but at the end of the day in our large very diversified coiled tubing business what we saw was kind of flat performance.
And I think as we go forward we've been very clear in stating that we don't expect coiled tubing prices overall to improve during the course of the year but as completions activity gets a bit busier we would expect some utilization gains that drive some margin improvement.
And our belief is that we'll see a bit of that in the second quarter and a little bit more as we get into Q3 and Q4.
Research Division</strong> And is the industry -- I mean how much idle capacity industry-wide do you think we're at now in terms of coiled tubing units? Well I think that what has happened is the slowdown in completions has caused the smaller coiled tubing units and the older 1.5 inch units to become much less utilized.
The units that are being used on completions today are almost all 2-inch units.
And so if you thought about utilization for the smaller units I'd say that there are probably a number of those that companies have that are stacked.
Most of our fleet is 2-inch units but I know even the few smaller units that we have are not very high utilization.
As a matter of fact we've looked at the possibility of transferring some of those smaller units into international markets that have demand for them right away.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel of Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe if we can touch on the wireline.
I think I saw on the prepared comments and some relatively constructive commentary about how that held up which is a little bit in contrast to some of your peers.
Can you give us a little better sense of what the market dynamics are there? Well I mean it's -- I would not want to characterize it as a great market.
I mean the cased hole wireline business is -- has been relatively flat for some time.
And so much of what's done in that business today is really shaped charge resale.
But I think we were -- I don't want to make a big deal out of it really Jeff I mean you were always encouraged to see a good result on that business.
But I don't believe it's something that we're expecting huge increases going forward with.
As we have some completions activity it'll generate more shaped charge resale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then I guess are you starting to see some evidence of a little bit better demand for kind of gas maintenance and work-over type activities? Whether it's in the unconventional or conventional plays? And do you think that's more of a seasonal element? Or do you think maybe it's a little bit more sustainable as the year progresses? Yes I don't know.
I mean it's -- the Service Rig business did well in the first quarter.
I don't know that that was a lot driven by gas maintenance work.
I think it was probably more driven by a little bit more completions work and a little bit better mix.
So that business for us shifted during the course of 2012 and about 60% of our kind of Q1 '12 revenue would've been on completions work and 40% on production.
In Q4 it dropped all the way to 40% on completion and 60% of production and I think a little bit better mix probably helped us more than anything in Q1.
Our next question comes from the line of Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave when you mentioned the improvement in pressure pumping utilization I was expecting to hear you talk about the Marcellus as opposed to the Eagle Ford and the Permian.
So it sounds like with regard to gassy basins the Marcellus is the one originally where you -- it feels like customers could increase activity.
Just was wondering if you could provide a little more color on -- your thoughts on your exposure in the Marcellus is and what you see there with the next over the next few months? We've got one active frac fleet in the Marcellus today.
We do have some stacked equipment that's up there which I'd love to take off the fence some time in 2013 but I don't know that that's included in our guidance at the moment.
We -- that one fleet has been utilized.
It's a contract fleet.
It's  really a fleet that delivered about flat activity for us from Q4 to Q1.
And so I can't say that we've been any real big beneficiary as a result of any activity changes in the Marcellus to this point.
But certainly we have -- over the last 12 months added some capacity in fracturing out in the Permian Basin and seeing some real nice growth in that business.
And in the Eagle Ford we have 4 fleets in the Eagle Ford.
They're all contracted fleets and they are probably 4 of the most efficient fleets that we have anywhere in the company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question for me.
Just relates to CapEx.
You mentioned that you guys underspent a little bit in the first quarter relative to what you originally thought internally.
And I'm just wondering is that bias that the full-year CapEx number down? Or is it just waiting to see how activity comes through in the next few months before committing that? You characterized it very well with the last part of the comment there waiting around to see how the activity shapes up during the course of the year.
I don't think we have any changes in our overall thoughts of CapEx for the year which we've guided you guys to $600 million to $700 million.
And really what we were trying to do in the first quarter and the message that sent to the field is I say listen guys we're starting out the year slow we know we're starting out the year slow.
Let's make sure that we keep our -- a conscious effort to keep costs contained and to keep capital spending contained and make sure that the year is going to progress the way we think it will from an activity standpoint.
Today I feel pretty confident about that but the first week of January there's still a lot of unknowns out there right? Our next question comes from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're doing something right your stock's up 5.5%.
Well done.
Thank you.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a question I had for you was in the past Dave you gave some indications as a potential use of cash and returning cash to shareholders in some form or another.
Can you give us a quick update on your thoughts there? The thoughts are exactly the same as they've been really for the last 9 months as we've been talking about: use of cash.
And we continue to be in effort to pay down some debt an exercise that really takes us through the first half of this year and at some point in the second half of the year we'll have that $300 million of debt brought in and the revolver back down to 0.
And assuming the year progresses the way we think it will we think we start to build free cash in the second half of the year and we'll be talking to the board about how to get that back to shareholders.
There's not really another good opportunity for us to buy in debt for couple of years and there's also not a real reason for company like ours to build cash.
I think long-term having a structure whereby we are regularly giving cash back to shareholders is the best option for us.
But it's still one that really doesn't become available to us until later this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Now and again that context I was under the impression that it was $150 million of debt reduction and you just mentioned it's $300 million so? Yes sorry.
You're -- I mean it started out as $300 million in total.
We brought in $150 million of that in the second half of 2012.
So we've still got $150 million left to go.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you think then the actual return of cash to shareholders is truly a '13 event? Or is it more likely to be a '14 event? I think a lot's going to depend on what happens and what we see out there in the second half of 2013.
I would sure like for this to be something that we're able to initiate during this fiscal year.
It may carry out to 2014.
But as I said I don't -- there's not a real reason for us to be a company that builds cash on the balance sheet.
And I think once we've got the revolver at 0 and this overall $300 million and notes brought in that's a point in time when where assuming our long-range forecast all feels real good that we'll start looking at options for getting cash back to shareholders.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've taken a very measured approach to your international expansion opportunities.
What do you have on the docket for 2013? And what are some areas you may be looking at in 2014? Yes so I mean we are anticipating now about 30% overall growth in our international revenue in 2013 from 2012.
It's happening primarily in the same countries which I have talked about consistently for the last couple of years mainly in Latin America and Asia but also in Saudi Arabia.
We always have a few places that -- where we're doing I'll call it kind of reconnaissance work and thinking about setting up operations and some of that may be realized later this year and some maybe in 2014 but they're still kind of focused in those same regions Latin America and Asia.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dave you guys mentioned a lot of the growth came the last couple of weeks of March.
And some of our colleagues had to write the numbers down right had high single-digit revenue growth quarter-for-quarter and things such as pressure pumping and well service.
Are the gains and activities the last several weeks so significant that you would see similar top line growth for those product lines in Q2? Well I mean I think the top line -- we think that that top line growth carries over from the last couple of weeks of March.
And what it does I mean it kind of it kind of resets an activity level for us.
We were low at the beginning of the quarter and we got better at the end of the quarter.
We just considered that -- say that activity level held I mean that does represent a pretty nice overall increase from Q1 to Q2.
It could also be a little bit better.
But that's that unknown that's out there John and how the market advances during the course of Q2 where it really becomes the primary determining factor in where we ultimately wind up finishing and relative to our range of guidance.
But I feel pretty good about the start to the second quarter now based on seeing that activity increase in March.
And I can't over emphasize for you guys how difficult this budget is for 2013.
And our mood and attitude on this certainly with you all has remained consistent we did not believe that the market would get busier until the very end of the first quarter and we were right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One more on the well service rig business.
Is the growth that you expect there is that a function of working more hours on your existing fleet redeploying maybe idle rigs? Or do you guys see opportunities to build in that new workover rates this year? So we've got a few new service rigs that come -- are coming into the fleet this year.
Most of our focus recently has been on some of the new generation automated-type of rigs and we've got I think 3 of those that are in the field now and there's a few more that are budgeted to come in during the course of the year.
So I mean what's happened in the business is we're seeing a little bit more completions work as opposed to production work and that's higher-quality revenue.
And as I said a little bit more capacity that's coming into the fleet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The final one for me David is just on Colombia.
I think that you mentioned that -- a small acquisition there.
Can you just talk a little bit more about when that closed? Size of the deal and so forth just a bit more? And what maybe what you already had in country before that? Yes sure.
So we -- the company started out in Colombia about 3 years ago I guess with a very small inspection business a pipe inspection business that we bought in Colombia and after that we added some rental tool fleet to our business there.
We've been looking for a way to bring some of our intervention or production services into the market and in doing that we were eyeballing a number of local companies and this particular company that we acquired is one that we began conversations with late last year.
It's a small pumping services company a relatively new player in the market.
I think they've been in business for 4 or 5 years which is good because it means their equipment is new.
They've got nice base of business today that's spread out between a few of our customers but it's a good service operation for us to build on.
And we closed that acquisition on March 1 so not a lot of their result is really embedded in our numbers but so far what we've seen performance-wise is well within the expectations of what we believe the business could produce.
And John really this is the type of international acquisition that we have -- we have focused on.
It's relatively small.
In terms of revenue it's kind of a $25 million-a-year operation.
Very similar in size and scope to what we did in Argentina last year.
And I'd love to go do several more of those during the course of the year and years to come because they're just perfectly complementary with our international expansion strategy.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave I thought I heard you allude to 30% year-over-year growth in international.
Wanted to confirm that that was correct.
I guess I was curious more broadly did the -- as a way of assessing your view of the first quarter did the decline in subsea technical solutions revenue internationally was the magnitude of that decline a surprise to you? Or about in line with where you thought that figure would end up? About in line with where we thought it would be.
I mean you -- we constantly talk about seasonality in Q1 and although the impact of that seasonality on -- in terms of our entire result as a company is certainly not as loud as it was before our Complete acquisition.
It's still a factor that's out there and where that business landed in Q1 was in line with what our expectations were.
And so of course what that means is we expect it to get better in Q2 which is also a part of what we've seen historically in this mix.
You guys are just getting better visibility on this than you've ever had before.
This was a business that was buried in subsea and well enhancement in the past.
But now that we've got it segmented for you you can see it a lot more clearly.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes I appreciate that.
And then we can go back in history and see the last couple of years which is helpful to see that as well and get some instruction into the margin and revenue bounce you typically get it to Q2.
And actually to that end is there a way to address? It's good to hear that the decommissioning-related margin pressure you saw in Q1 won't continue into Q2 but is there a way to describe what level of impact that had on Q1? All right.
It was -- it's not a needle mover for us how's that? I mean that's a -- that's about $100 million a year business for us in total.
D I'm speaking of the decommissioning market in the Gulf of Mexico.
And so when they have a little bit of cost overrun which often in Q1 is a result of weather delays it's not a needle mover for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Trey Cowan with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Looking at just the complexion of things you spoke to more production-related activities going on right now and that would kind of suggest that over the long run I mean you have 3 to 5 years out.
We are actually seeing more artificial lift because there's more liquids in oil drilling being done right now.
How do you guys see that impacting your work over services? This is a great question and Trey and it really -- it really -- the heart of the question is is what as an industry are we going to do to maintain production in horizontal wellbores.
And there has not been a lot of recompletion work done in horizontal wellbores to date.
There are different opinions in industries to how this will be done.
I have a hard time believing that we were going to spend a lot of time and effort and money as an industry in trying to improve or enhance production in an existing horizontal well that has largely depleted or seen production decline.
And one of the thoughts people have had is well you get this big horizontal wellbore you got $6.5 million or $7 million invested in why don't we go refrac it? And I think there's a tremendous question out there as to whether or not the results of refracing would be a good investment.
I mean you've already drained part of that cylinder that surrounds that horizontal wellbore with your initial completion and I'm not sure that in these very tight formations we're going to be able to improve that recovery by recompleting that same wellbore.
Now if you wanted to go into the vertical and shoot the horizontal off into another direction that's a different story but the way operators are laying out horizontal wells in these fields I'm not sure even that opportunity exists.
I don't if I answered your question there.
I mean artificial lift is an easy one because we see operators reconfiguring their completions in these wells as they experience pressure depletion and artificial lift is part and parcel to what they do there.
But it's a little bit harder to see the visibility on how recompletion activity would occur on these horizontal wells.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on a totally different subject you mentioned early in your comments that the DJ Basin [ph] was piping more water than it had in the past.
Can you just give us some insight into what's going on there as far as to shift in sentiment what's making this behavior shift? Well I mean it -- let me preface this by saying there is different behavior in different basins related to transport of water and one of the things we've seen some of the DJ operators do is is pipe more or run more water in ditches really which certainly eliminates the need for some of the transport requirements that have historically existed in the DJ.
But you go to the Permian or you go to the Eagle Ford you go to another basin and that's not the case at all.
In several of those places we see increasing demand for trucks.
So I think when operators have the opportunity to invest in water-moving infrastructure that's going to be there for a long time that they can build out in an efficient way we'll see operators do that.
You've seen that in the Missisippian Lime where so many of those operators have invested in hard -- buried pipes in the ground move water from a production standpoint as well as from a completions standpoint.
So it's not a common theme from basin to basin nor from customer to customer.
The DJ basin is one where there's kind of a concentration of customers.
So when we see one of those customers that moves to a more permanent transport devices like pipes or ditches then it impacts us.
Research Division</strong> Not to get too much into the weeds here but is there any impact on the water cut that's coming out of the well? I mean is there a greater water cut or a lesser water cut or is that -- that had some impact on it? Are you talking specifically to the DJ or just in general? Research Division</strong> Well I thought the Mississippian Lime had a greater water -- Yes so and the Mississippian Lime has a tremendous water cut.
And I think it's -- I think those wells come on line with about a 90% water cut.
And there are other formations that operators are exploiting today that also come in at that high water cut.
That's just a function of oil price.
I mean it gets very expensive to handle water and you got to have an oil price that's high enough in order to support that additional cost.
I think as long as you see an oil price deck that's kind of where we are today there will continue to be these types of fields that are brought on line because we can afford the water take away.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Michael Marino with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us again on how much horsepower you have kind of rolling into the spot market later this year? And the timing of that? And if -- is that something if it does roll  by is it something we should kind of keep in mind in our models given the difference in potential pricing? Okay.
So I mean we have -- around 4 I think it's 4 stacked frac fleets and we did not really incorporate within our guidance and expectation that those fleets become unstacked during the course of the year.
We've got some horsepower which comes off contract in the Barnett during the course of 2013.
I'll remind you that those are our smallest frac fleets.
They represent less than 10% of our overall horsepower.
And the expectation is that we'll find work for that horsepower.
So that's probably in the callout market.
I don't think in this market environment that there are great opportunities to kick off new contracts.
So it's kind of a horsepower that we expect to shift from contract to spot as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Okay and it doesn't all happen at once? It's -- they're somewhat more staggered? That's right.
It's staggered and it happens during the course of the year.
And another way to think about this I mean we're about 70% of our overall fracturing revenue that is the result of contracts.
And we kind of stay the same on that as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> Okay that is helpful.
How do you see the spot market right now in terms of pricing? Is it down the bottom yet is that your view? I don't know.
It's very different from one basin to the next and we're not the perfect guys to speak to about pricing in the spot market because we don't have -- we're not in every basin in the spot market.
The Eagle Ford's a good example of that.
I mean we've got 4 of our biggest and most productive frac fleets that work in the Eagle Ford but they're all contracted so I'm not testing the prices there everyday.
We do have spot capacity it's in the Bakken.
We have spot capacities in the Permian.
We have been able to find work for that spot capacity that generates a margin for us that's consistent with a contracted fleet would deliver.
So I'm talking all around your question I know that.
But it's mainly because we just don't have the visibility in the spot pricing in each of the markets on a day-to-day basis.
Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
So just kindly if I could hone in a little bit on the guidance and how your flat -- frac fleets fits in there.
If I'm understanding you correctly you're not incorporating any idle fleets going to work even at the high-end? But at the high-end you might be incorporating higher utilization of existing contracts? That is exactly right.
Now whether it's existing contracts or higher utilization on the fleets the revenue progression as it occurs during the year and actually occurred during the month of March as we saw higher utilization later in March than we did early in March is driven by utilization -- that's not more equipment going into the field.
And those utilization gains were nice for us.
We still have several fleets that are on 5-day utilization.
I think our total count was 6 on 7-day utilization at the end of March.
I would expect that could improve some as the year progresses but more than anything this also goes back to the issue of efficiency.
And in many cases we see opportunities for efficiency enhancement even on a 7-day fleet.
And I'll give you an example of that.
I mean we had 4 of our frac fleets during the month of March.
Four frac fleets during the month of March that averaged 2 million pounds of profit per day.
That's pretty efficient.
And that in fact that's -- I'd put that up against any company in the fracturing industry from an efficiency standpoint.
And that's 4 fleets that did that.
You pick up another fleet that has that kind of performance in the second quarter and your utilization improved.
And you didn't have any additional fleets necessarily that went on 7 days but your overall utilization improved.
And we expect to see some more of those opportunities as the year progresses.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back to over to Mr.
Dunlap for any closing remarks.
Please go ahead.
I think that we're finished with our remarks.
I appreciate all of you joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Superior Energy's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded July 30 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Greg Rosenstein Executive Vice President Corporate Development and Relations.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During the call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We recorded quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $291 million and net income of $68.6 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
As we outlined in our pre-earnings announcement a couple of weeks ago second quarter earnings were impacted by the relocation of pressure pumping equipment from the Barnett to the Permian and Eagle Ford PEMEX's decision to reduce its activity for the remainder of the year which impacted our coiled tubing revenue and extreme flooding in North Dakota which reduced activity for our completion of production-related services in the Bakken.
As a result of these factors I would categorize our second quarter shortfall as a revenue miss.
Our gross profit EBITDA and operating margins all experienced slight sequential upticks.
The Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment was the most impacted by the factors mentioned earlier.
And as a result experienced a 7% sequential decrease in revenue.
However increased service intensity and pressure pumping helped to drive a slight increase in overall profit margins.
The margin profile for Superior is stable despite the U.S.
land market that has remained flat.
This is because we are managing our U.S.
land businesses to maintain margins rather than grow market share.
And we are able to show significant growth in other geographic markets.
Year-to-date our Gulf of Mexico revenue has increased 34% over the first 6 months of 2012 and our international revenue despite the slowdown in Mexico has grown 13% over the same period.
On a sequential basis our Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% primarily due to our Drilling Products and Services segment as well as some seasonal increases in shallow water work from our subsea and technology solutions segment.
In addition we're experiencing a robust market for completion tools and services.
We anticipated that this would be an excellent year for completions and stimulation work in the Gulf of Mexico.
And so far this market is exceeding our expectations.
International revenue increased 9% on a sequential basis due to the anticipated seasonal recoveries of 4 subsea construction work in Asia Pacific increased rentals to premium drill pipe in South America and better-than-anticipated results for production services in Argentina and Colombia.
The field continue to perform well in terms of managing costs and capital spending during the period.
And as we will discuss in the outlook section we anticipate capital spending for the year to come in at the low end of our budget.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our guidance and outlook.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the first quarter 2013.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue is $205 million and income from operation was $6 million which represents a 6% sequential increase in revenue and 5% sequential increase in operating income.
For the second consecutive quarter international revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate at 12% to $56 million due to increased rentals of premium drill pipe in Asia Pacific Latin America and the Middle East.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 8% to $75 million with the biggest increases coming from premium drill pipe and accommodation.
U.S.
land revenue was unchanged in $74 million.
This segment's gross profit margins was slightly higher due to business mix as premium drill pipe was the fastest-growing business line.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue is $398 million and income from operations was $47 million which represents a 7% sequential decrease in revenue and a 6% sequential decrease in income from operation.
Our pressure pumping revenue decreased 5% due to downtime associated with moving equipment between basins and weather in North Dakota partially offsetting this factors was increased revenues in the Eagle Ford and Marcellus.
Operating margin in pressure pumping were over 150 basis points higher due to the increased service intensity especially in the Eagle Ford.
Revenue from fluid management services and well service rigs was also lower partially due to the weather issues in the Bakken.
Fluid management also experienced lower heating-related revenue.
Production services segment revenue is up slightly to $369 million while operating income decreased 26% to $21 million.
The primary factors for the lower operating margin was the decrease in coiled tubing revenue in Mexico and lower snubbing activity in certain international markets.
U.S.
land revenue increased 7% to $231 million primarily due to increases in snubbing and remedial pumping.
Our coiled tubing revenue in the U.S.
was unchanged relative to Q1 due to weather in the Bakken.
We saw improved coiled tubing activity in the Permian and Anadarko basins.
Despite the flat revenue coiled tubing margins did improve.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was unchanged at $54 million.
International revenue decreased 13% to $84 million primarily due to lower coiled tubing activity in Mexico and demand for snubbing services in Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $187 million which represents a 26% increase from the first quarter.
This segment's income from operations was $9 million compared to $6 million loss from operations in the first quarter.
International showed the largest increase at 48% to $71 million in revenue with increased subsea construction in the Asia Pacific and sales of completion tools as the primary driver.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 14% to $96 million primarily due to a seasonal recovery in optional P&amp;A and decommissioning work in a strong completions market which drove higher demand for completion and stimulation tools and services.
U.S.
land revenue increased 23% to $20 million.
Turning to the balance sheet.
As of June 30 our debt was $1.8 billion debt to EBITDA as of the end the quarter was 1.5x and debt to total capital was 29%.
Capital additions in the second quarter were about $161 million and from a modeling perspective in the third quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $156 million to $159 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $155 million to $158 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $27 million and should use a weighted average share count of about 151 million for the quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our earnings guidance and outlook.
Thank you Robert.
As we mentioned in the earnings release we've narrowed our earnings guidance range to $1.75 to $1.95 per share with a midpoint reflecting the lower end of our prior guidance.
We have consistently discussed 4 themes regarding our earnings guidance for the year: First we believe that we have good visibility in forecasting strong growth in the Gulf of Mexico and international markets; second the range of outcomes for our earnings was largely dependent on the pace of change for completion and production related activity in the U.S.; third because of a lack of visibility into that pace of change as defined by factors such as horizontal rig count activity well count horizontal footage drill drilling efficiencies and customer spending we established a wide band for earnings guidance to reflect the various outcomes; fourth the second quarter would be the inflection point that would give us some visibility into the slope and intensity of U.S.
completions activity for the second half of the year.
Based on the first half results and our updated guidance our products and services outside of the U.S.
completions and production-related markets should collectively perform better than anticipated in 2013.
Despite this outperformance the earnings guidance is now at the lower end of our prior rage because we have not seen an increase in U.S.
activity during the first half of 2013 and do not believe a meaningful ramp in activity will occur during the back half of the year.
Activity has been flat and could improve slightly from here but not enough to achieve the higher end of our prior guidance.
All of that being said we're confident the second half of 2013 spend from our customers will be similar to the second quarter if not slightly better.
And although Q4 visibility is not perfect we would expect only a mild seasonal decline in December that is more holiday-related than budget-related.
We've done an excellent job of maintaining margins and anticipate that our overall margins in the second half of the year will look similar to Q2 with a possibility of a slight uptick.
I believe that we're holding market share in our core U.S.
land product lines but certainly not pursuing share increases for the sake of adding revenue at less than acceptable margins.
We have underutilized capacity in the U.S.
and we will look for opportunities to deploy that capacity in some of our new international businesses or wait until we have a better market environment in the U.S.
before that capacity is put back to work.
We anticipate that our capital expenditures for 2013 will come in at the lower end of our prior guidance which is at it implies the range of $600 million to $650 million.
The lower capital spending estimate for 2013 along with improvements in working capital put us in a position to generate in excess of $200 million in free cash during 2013 with an expectation of even higher free cash generation in 2014.
We now expect the balance of our credit facility to be at 0 early in Q4 and consistent with what we've communicated to shareholders during the past year we will then be in a position to return free cash to shareholders.
Finally a few words about one of our own.
In the oil and gas service industry we all aspire to be the company that gets the call from the customer when that customer is in the greatest need when they're in the biggest bind when they're desperate for help to solve a potentially catastrophic problem.
Our customers call the company that they can count on to solve their problems.
And then that problem is related to the most dangerous of all problems the control of an oil and gas well they call Wild Well Control.
And for many years that conversation has started with Patrick Campbell.
Pat Campbell passed away this past Saturday.
Pat has been retired from the company since 2012.
He participated in well control events around the world from the Kuwait oil fires in 1991 to the BP Deepwater Horizon blowout and oil spill.
But Pat's greatest contribution was in the training and development of a generation of well control responders.
A generation that's in the field today and in his efforts to build a business that is synonymous with oil field emergency response and prevention.
Pat was a pioneer a leader and a great friend.
He will be greatly missed by an industry and a company that is forever grateful for his loyalty innovative spirit and his great business acumen.
And with that we'll open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Maybe if we could start with pressure pumping.
You redeployed some spreads during this quarter.
Could you maybe give us a little bit of reset in terms of -- I believe you're pretty well contracted through the end of the year is it a little too early to start having discussions about contract rollovers for next year be it in the Eagle Ford or maybe with the one spread in the Marcellus? Yes.
I mean it's something that we've had -- we have contracts that are expiring 2013.
In fact in terms of contract roll over if you really -- if you look back on the second quarter we had 2 contracted fleets in the Barnett that were near contract expiration.
The customers wanted to terminate those contracts early.
We agreed to the terms and move the horsepower to support and extend existing contracts in the Eagle Ford and the Barnett.
And to support fleets that were working on the Permian Basin.
In some cases the horsepower went to work for new customers.
So I mean really as we think about this this is an ongoing part of our fracturing business we've got contracts that roll on 2013.
What we've said about this consistently is we believe we'd put the horsepower to work in other basins whether it’s in the spot market or under new contracts.
And that's exactly what we experienced during the second quarter.
So -- and I think that's what you can anticipate as we look forward to the contract expirations in 2014 and 2015.
And then you mentioned maybe deploying some assets to the international markets if things aren't necessarily improving a lot domestically.
Would that be specifically maybe looking at some smaller diameter coil? Or could it even be some idle pressure pumping spreads? I think more likely coiled tubing -- coiled tubing is an area that we've be looking at for the past several quarters.
We've got some smaller diameter units not very many that are in the fleet but some smaller diameter units that would have potential uptick in some of the new international markets for us but even some of the larger diameter coiled tubing units can be converted to use for 1.75-inch or 1.5-inch pipe which is more predominantly in demand in the international markets for a fairly reasonable amount of money.
So I mean we'll continue to look at opportunities to place coiled tubing its international.
We do have some part in stacked hydraulic horsepower if the right opportunity came along it would be interesting to us to move horsepower into the international markets.
But there's nothing that's immediately pending on that front.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You said wait until we have a better market in the U.S.
What makes you think that we will or even need to have a better market in the U.S? We're at great levels everybody's busy the rig count's high.
We're meeting gas needs why does the market have to go higher? Well I think in general there's an anticipation that at some point in time with a higher gas demand and I don't believe that's in 2013 Jim.
But with a higher gas demand and more gas activity that there would be a need for additional assets in the completions market in particular and probably from a drilling standpoint as well.
And do we need it? Yes we've got good businesses that are out there today.
I think in general when we went through more capital expansion in 2012 we anticipated over a long period of time a rig count that was more in the 2 000 to 2 200 range.
And so we've got some capacity that we could put to work if the market migrated to that point.
In the meantime we'll utilize what we have done from an international business establishment standpoint to see if we could transfer some of those assets to other places.
And that basically just saves us on what future investment would have been in order to equip some of those newer areas.
So either way it kind of works to our benefit.
And you're right the business is performing quite well today.
Research Division</strong> Well this is the concern.
You're doing a great job in my opinion in dealing with the market.
But if the market is continuing to move idle equipment in the U.S.
overseas for the next couple of years that to me implies a more negative view of the U.S.
market which is the biggest market over the next couple of years.
So my concern is when we're all expecting the rig count to go up now we've all been told that rig count is not going to up for the rest of the year why can't it not go up in '14 too? Well I think it certainly could go up in 2014 and 2015.
And as it stands today I mean the stacked equipment that we have in the U.S.
would be available for that market uptick.
In the meantime I mean for us capital investment in a coiled tubing unit or a pressure pumping fleet or a cement unit I mean generally those are assets which are constructed in an identical fashion whether it's for U.S.
market or an international market.
And so what we would do is we'd take some of those assets that are under deployed in the U.S.
and put them into international and that means we don't have to go build future assets for the U.S.
if the market steps up.
But they're interchangeable I guess is my point.
I'd rather take equipment that we've already invested in and start generating earnings with it sooner.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
I agree.
And you've got lots of possibilities to do that.
I mean you've said where you won't go.
You won't go to China.
You won't go to Russia.
The places that you are are any of those being disappointing? Or any of those not living up to expectations? We've been particularly happy with the Latin American market.
I think we've got -- I think we've raised our flag in the right places in Latin America.
Those are markets which could be very good for consuming some of the same underutilized capacity that we're talking about that's in the U.S.
today.
Now we're doing a lot more work in Asia and building out market position there.
There are markets in Asia which could take those assets as well.
More of the Asian markets will need skid mounted equipment and that's not typically what we've built for the U.S.
land market.
But certainly in Latin America or Indonesia or Australia Saudi Arabia those are all places that can take the types of assets that we have available.
Our next question comes from the line of James West with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Dave how much capacity in the U.S.
do you have the stacked right now? And how much I guess excess capacity are you looking at as we think about a market that maybe gets better or maybe you ship capacity overseas for better opportunities? What kind of an uptick could we see on overall utilization of equipment? So overall we've got somewhere in the neighborhood of 150 000 horsepower on the fracturing side.
In coiled tubing and I'll say that that the hydraulic horsepower was actually parked.
I mean it is stacked in facilities where -- if you want to think of them as idle yards.
In the case of coiled tubing we probably have in the neighborhood of 10 to 15 coiled tubing units that if we took them out of the fleet would not be missed at this point in the market.
So I'd say at 10 to 15 coiled tubing units so that's about 15% of our overall capacity in coiled tubing that's in excess.
Outside of that we've got some water assets in trucks and frac tanks that are a bit underutilized but those aren't really the types of assets that would be good to transfer to an international market.
Those are assets that are really more geared towards the U.S.
We don't have any excess service rigs and then our service rig fleet has maintained a pretty high utilization.
We could stand to do some more completions work as opposed to production work but the assets are being well utilized.
So I hope that clarifies it for you.
Research Division</strong> No it does it.
Then just a follow for me.
With respect to Mexico this obviously disruptions during the quarter we've heard from the large-cap service companies that for me I guess was a little bit mixed view but most of them are winning new contracts but don't expect to have a big pick up until next year.
Is that consistent with kind of your view of at least the northern part of Mexico? Yes it is.
I mean what we've heard out in Northern Mexico is they've moved to drill on some horizontal wells there and are evaluating the performance of those horizontal wells versus their traditional drilling program.
It would certainly not be a terrible outcome for PEMEX in the north to start doing more long lateral horizontal drilling.
But you guys know what that means from a budget standpoint.
You start replacing vertical wells with horizontal wells and you will move through your budget a lot faster than you anticipated.
And so I think that's the primary driver.
It feels like that's an issue that they could be past by early 2014 but we'll see.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Crandell with Cowen.
Research Division</strong> Dave one of your competitors in the Gulf of Mexico recently announced that they're going to build another stimulation vessel in the gulf.
And it certainly seems like the market is strong down there.
What would be your thoughts as to potentially adding capacity into that market? So here's what I've heard on the competitive front is that there has been some talk about placing some additional vessels in the market.
I need to kind of draw you to a distinction.
We have in one case what I describe -- and the market has been mainly comprised of what I've described as permanent setups of stimulation plans on vessels.
The investments to set up a Gulf of Mexico stimulation vessel with a permanent set up with built-in horsepower and tankage and everything else was on the order of $30 million to $40 million.
That's one set up.
That's what the market has had in place going into 2013.
What I have heard from a competitive standpoint is the set up that I will refer to as more of a temporary set-up.
Where you take skid mounted equipment and either chain it or tack weld it to the deck of a vessel to provide temporary capacity addition.
That's the type of additions that I've been hearing about.
And we've had some conversations with our guys about doing something similar in the marketplace.
So the difference in investment is significant.
For a full-blown new stimulation vessel $30 million $40 million $50 million investment will not be unusual.
To set up on a temporary basis is less than a couple of million dollars.
For less than a couple of million dollars in the right kind of market we would certainly be interested in doing something like that.
I'm not terribly motivated to go invest $40 million in a new steamboat when a year ago we were still at breakeven margins on stimulation vessels on the Gulf.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And second question Dave concerns Mexico.
Number one how much of your businesses is outside the north and is expansion in southern Mexico a priority for you at this time? And secondly outside of coiled tubing are you looking at this market as one that you would bring other product lines into? So the business in Mexico is primarily comprised of coiled tubing.
We've had some well control work in Mexico over the years and our Wild Well Control group has also been in conversations with PEMEX about containment equipment this type of thing.
The primary business that we have done there is coiled tubing.
This is a legacy complete business that came along with the acquisition of a few years ago.
The coiled tubing business is scattered throughout the land markets in the south as well as the north.
And its business it's been in place for a number of years.
So I mean that kind of explains the legacy of what we have in coiled tubing.
We are already in the south as well as the north of Mexico from a coiled tubing standpoint.
So your -- the second part of your question had to do with expansion.
I've said it before I mean traditionally the way that PEMEX is operating has not provided the most reliable environment I guess you could say for service companies in Mexico.
And we are certainly prioritizing from an international expansion standpoint those countries that offer the highest degree of reliability and certainty in margins and return.
And by definition Mexico doesn't wind up in that definition.
That doesn't mean that things couldn't change at some point in PEMEX and a more reliable environment exist for us but my impression of that right now would be it would be a hard place to go and make a big commitment on a new investment.
We just have other more secure places to go to today.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dave could you give us some sense of what the actual revenue or profit impact was just with the weather and issues you mentioned in the second quarter that hopefully don't recur in the third quarter? Yes it's on the order of $20 million or so in revenue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the Drilling Product and Services segment you guys talked about the -- a pretty big sequential increase I think it was 12% in international revenues related mostly to rentals.
Just maybe a little color on the sustainability of that kind of what you see opportunity wise for that going forward? The sustainability is quite high.
I mean it's scattered around it's not one -- any one particular place.
And so the sustainability is quite good.
Rental tools continues to be the area of highest capital investment for us for the remainder of 2013 and it will be in 2014 as well.
So that capital investment is in place somewhat to maintain revenue because rental tools is a capital intensive product line but also to expand.
We've got some great contracts that start up particularly on the landing string side of the business in Brazil later this year and some of our capital going to that.
And we just see a continued stream of continued rental -- new rental opportunities and contracts kicking up for us internationally over the next several years.
Our next question comes from the line of Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me.
Dave you framed the full year revised guidance as tightening the range.
And thinking about the lower end of that range being $0.10 below where it was before what are the key assumptions that would have to play out to get you there? I mean it doesn't sound like you necessarily see a fall off in activity into yearend aside from maybe normal holiday issues.
So I'm just curious as to how do you think about the key assumptions growing the low end because it...
Yes I mean to get the lower end now of our revised guidance range it would anticipate that we're wrong about the holiday season being a problem in Q4 instead we see more of a fall off which we have not seen or heard any evidence from customers to support.
Weather can kick in in Q3 in the form of hurricanes.
It could kick in in Q4 on the form of other weather-related problems in the month of December.
So it would take factors such as that.
I mean certainly things that don't seem to be in the in the offing at the moment but that's what it would take.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dave if you look at the product lines within the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment it appears there's still more capacity to be delivered in the next 6 to 12 months thus presumably a bit more industry deconsolidation.
Assuming that plays out and activity levels stay at or near your current levels do you think you can maintain margins? Yes.
At this point we think we can.
I mean we've seen some equipment additions come in to the market over the -- not so much in 2013 but certainly at the back half of 2012.
And we've been able to maintain margins are really kind of flat with where they were by mid-quarter in Q3.
And so overall I'm not too concerned about the type of pricing impact that that type of competitive pressure would bring.
We do hear more anecdotally about some of the smaller companies and certain of these product lines which are now beginning to downsize from a labor standpoint.
And so that takes some capacity out of the market and maybe that offsets the whatever minor revisions you're speaking of John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Another one not sure if you said this or not earlier in the call I apologize.
But can you share the revenue expectations supporting the earnings guidance in the second half? Yes.
I don't think we've given the number overall.
But if you think about -- from your model standpoint I'm sure Greg would be able to help you out with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I guess the last one for me Dave is just on the service intensity helping lift margins.
Is that a function of the more profit more stages? Or more 24-hour work? What are some of the specific items that are either on the service intensity? Yes so we had -- I mean it's a result of a few more of the fleets working on 7 days and what we saw in the first quarter as well as just overall efficiency gains and probably more than anything efficiency gains by customers in South Texas and the Permian Basin really drove that service intensity to us to generate the kind of the margin level we did in the second quarter on the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you see that rising from here? Yes I mean moderately.
I mean a lot of talk's given to the overall efficiency gains and yet the way I see this is that I think most of our operators have reached close to on optimum efficiency early in 2013.
So the gains that are being made now are not like the year-over-year gains that we saw from '11 to '12.
They're more moderate they're more customer specific but they is still give you a slight upward pull towards generating a little bit better margin as you're working for customers to get a little bit more efficient.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Interested in the commentary in the release regarding the completion tools business as one of the -- being the first time that it looks like it's working kind of in concert internationally Gulf of Mexico onshore and in terms of the comparisons I'm wondering if there's anything new to report in terms of gains and tractions across different products? Any particular in these segments? Or really any color you can add to that? Or just kind of chalk it up to a good period.
Well I think it's the -- what we expect when we acquired those assets and the maturity of the business.
So we're just about the 3-year anniversary of that acquisition and it was a U.S.
business when we acquired it.
And we talk about how it's going to take us a few years to go build it out internationally.
And I think what we're experiencing now is that maturity of the international business being here coming through.
That in addition to the fact that their market share is doing -- quite well on the deepwater side in the Gulf of Mexico that drives very strong revenue for us and good margins that go along with the tool works.
I mean it's a function of Gulf of Mexico deepwater return and as well as maturity of the international business.
So it's not at an endpoint either by the way I mean we think that Gulf of Mexico market particularly from a deepwater standpoint continues to progress this year and probably next year and we'll also be accommodates new international markets as time goes on.
So it should provide a nice little growth catalyst going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to make sure because Mexico placed prominently in terms of the progression year of -- or dated from Q1 to Q2 in terms of progression or production services.
You also called out the snubbing business in Asia Pac.
I guess that's probably Australia that you're talking about.
I wanted to make sure that there's no kind of follow through on the weakness there and that's just kind of a 1-quarter issue? And then maybe we can use that as an on trade to -- we've talked a lot about South America maybe you can kind of reset where we stand in terms of the eastern hemisphere franchise in general here as for the back half of the year.
Okay.
So that was 3 questions.
I'm keeping them all in order here Blake.
So coiled tubing in Mexico certainly from Q1 to Q2 that was a negative that we experienced on the production services side of business.
We don't think that Mexico changes very much from Q2 to Q3 or then into Q4.
And then we'll get better insight as we get into our budget for 2014 as to what we anticipate in Northern Mexico from a spin level going forward.
So it seems to be kind of a second quarter and second half of the year issue.
And of all our -- the Q2 issues that we've talk about here a few weeks ago it's probably the one that is not perfectly transitory.
I mean we think the Bakken issues were certainly were transitory and the movement of horsepower were transitory.
But Mexico is probably not in that category and doesn't get better until 2014.
On the snubbing business snubbing business is a -- it's a service intensive business that at points in time when you're on a particular project and that project ends you'll see some interruption as that equipment moves around to the next project.
So I certainly don't see that as being something that we expect to continue on for the rest of the year.
Our snubbing guys have very strong and solid reputation internationally and what I have found is that when they finish one project they may be in transition for a few weeks until the next one.
But they rapidly put those assets back to work.
And finally your question about Latin America.
Latin America is progressing very much as we anticipated that it would.
The business in Argentina is outperforming expectations.
The business in Colombia is outperforming expectations.
Brazil is basically on target from an expectation standpoint.
And we've got 2 pretty significant contracts that start up towards the end of this year.
One as I've mentioned before Lyerhager [ph] contract that starts up in Q4; and secondly land stimulation contract which also starts up in the second half of the year.
So all those businesses are progressing quite well.
And of course we're very -- I personally am very encouraged by the commitment that we're hearing from some of our customers on shale development in Argentina which is not a 2013 impact I think but I think it puts us in position on having made a very good timely acquisition down there to get ourselves established.
Our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
One Dave you talked -- you highlighted the strength of both the Gulf of Mexico and the international operations sort of this first half versus last year's first half.
What do you think of that growth rate in those 2 areas as we go forward here on a relative basis to what you've seen so far this year? Yes.
So I mean I'll stick with my -- the line I've consistently delivered on international.
I mean expect us to have opportunities to grow that international revenue top line 15% to 20% a year.
I mean if you want to count on something count on 15%.
There'll be some years worth a bit more than that there may be some that's a little bit less.
But more likely 15% growth is something I think you can count on and many of the areas that we have established business in the last 12 to 18 months are still at a very low point.
And so I feel very confident about that 15% to 20% growth rate internationally.
And Gulf of Mexico is a little bit different.
I mean we're going through a pretty unusual change in the marketplace with Macondo and post-Macondo.
The type of growth that we've experienced in the Gulf of Mexico which is in excess of 30% first half of the year compared to 2012.
That's probably not repeatable.
Although it certainly is clear that there is an upward bias to deepwater rig count over the next couple of years and we are very levered in Gulf of Mexico to deepwater drilling.
And so don't look for 30% year-over-year growth from '13 to '14 in the Gulf of Mexico.
But I could certainly support something that's in the low-teens.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful color.
And then when we think about those 2 factors and how that plays out on the margin front I guess it depends more just on the ramp in North America as far as the relative margin performance.
But where do you see stand now as far as how the international margins look versus what you're doing currently in the U.S.? Yes I mean it differs a little bit from one country to the next than one product line to the next.
And I've been consistent in telling you guys that we're really prioritizing rental tool investment internationally.
And part of the reason for that is that those margins and returns are just spot on with what we've experienced in the North American business on rental tools.
Services is always going to be a little bit different.
And that -- when you do a start up with services it's -- you have got a lot of fixed cost initially and those start ups are typically characterized by lower utilization than what you're staffing up for at the very beginning.
And so in services start up you'll go through a period where you've got either start up losses or just lower margins until you work up to a utilization pace that's consistent with the investment that you've made.
So it just depends.
I mean if you look at your country were you're doing a startup from scratch with a rental tools you're going to be to generating margins that are consistent with our North American margins from day 1.
It's a little fixed cost.
If it's starting up in coiled tubing or cementing or something else like that then you might have a few months of lower margins before you get to the optimum utilization rate.
Did that answer your question Stephen? Research Division</strong> That did add some good color.
And I'm going to sneak in one more when you look at the second half guidance and you look at balancing your seasonality that you get in some of the businesses in the first -- fourth quarter with kind of growth in other areas do you think you'll see kind of the third quarter being the high point for the year? How should we think about that? Yes I kind of think about those quarters being fairly similar.
And that we expect to have a bit of build from an earnings standpoint I guess if you want to think of it that way during the course of the third quarter.
And so that kind of leads you to say well going into October you're probably at a pretty good pace.
In November you're probably at a pretty good pace and then it falls off some in December.
So I don't know it just depends on what kind of margin movement we see occurring during the third quarter.
I think that will be on upward movement.
And our earnings would certainly suggest that because earnings in the second half of the year progressing from where we are in Q2.
But right now I'm thinking about those quarters being fairly similar from an earnings standpoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave I really think I just had a -- just one question left.
It's actually on the Subsea and Technical Solutions business.
If we look at that business sort of it's seasonal peak Q2 and Q3 is the biggest determinant of your margin performance there still the utilization of your decommissioning asset base? Or does the tools -- the completion tool business does that have the potential as it becomes a bigger portion of that mix to influence the margin level above where it's been historically? Yes.
Well I mean I think the Completions business certainly does have that opportunity to be a more stable component I guess over time.
I'll caution you that the completion tool business particularly can be a bit lumpy.
As are a lot of our businesses in that segment which is one of the reasons why it's in that segment is because it can be a bit lumpy.
If you've got a big order internationally you'll book that order at one particular time and then you may be running those tools on the hole for the next 2 quarters but you had a big lumpy revenue when you delivered the tools.
So it's not -- it's not a smooth business like those would be in completion or production or even on the rental side.
Overall from a margin standpoint that segment does suffer from the lumpiness that we see in the decommissioning business and it suffers from what are generally still low margins at Hallin Marine.
I mean those are the biggest factors that have kept margins down and I'd say that in the first half of the year in 2012 our well control work was a bit light and certainly Wild Well Control can have a big impact on margins in that business when they're busy.
But it was not a very busy first half of the year from a well control standpoint.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess I find myself a little confused so it's probably worth me just kind of trying to ask you guys to back up on your guidance with respect to your thought process with respect to Gulf of Mexico and international growth for this year.
And I say that just because I feel like on this call maybe it's been more measured than I thought I had been hearing from you over the last 6 months.
And so...
Not from the Gulf of Mexico standpoint for sure.
I mean the international commentary is certainly dampened somewhat by Mexico pulling us down.
So that was not something we anticipated.
With didn't expect a lot of growth in Mexico year-over-year but we certainly didn't expect the kind of fall off that we saw as a result of PEMEX's actions in the north.
And so that's creating a bit of a downdraft on that international business which -- I mean we overcome but it's certainly doesn't lift us up to the kind of growth rate that would've been available to us if Mexico just stayed flat year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> I guess I understand that.
If I flatline your second quarter results you're still up internationally I think I'm not sure if my math is right and you're going to tell me -- but I think you're still up something in the range of 25% although I don't know if that's a right annualized number for a couple of different reasons maybe.
Is that...
Yes maybe closer to 20%.
But I mean you're in the ballpark.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's kind of how you're -- it is a little softer by virtue of Mexico and...
Exactly right.
What we've been saying about international was we felt like the opportunity going into the year was a 25% to 30% as high 30% growth rate if some things went right.
With Mexico falling off unexpectedly as it did it puts us more in the 20% to 25% range but probably closer to 20%.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then I guess on the Gulf of Mexico side that's helping to compensate so you might well still be in the 30% growth range this year.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That helps.
If I may as an unrelated follow-up.
It's going to come off like I'm just a confused guy today and I guess that's because of all the separate earnings maybe.
But the -- in response to an earlier question I guess I might have expected you to say something more encouraging about ongoing absorption of completion equipment even in a flat rig count.
Just sort of that rising service intensity function.
Just for example longer laterals tying on that many more stages per well and all of that tying up coiled tubing for more than just linear periods of time.
Is that an exaggerated idea that we throw out there when we throw that out? Because you're again I feel like you're comments were a little bit more sort of rig count directed? Yes is not a -- I won't go so far as to say it's a -- to scold it for being an exaggerated idea.
Directionally you're correct.
Exaggerated maybe a bit too strong.
So I mean when I think about the coiled tubing revenue progression as there year goes on it's up in the second half of the year from the first half of the year but is up slightly.
I mean it's not a what I'd describe as a needle mover from a utilization standpoint.
I'm glad we have it and it's helpful when it causes margins to creep up a bit in that business along with revenue but it's -- I don't see it as a needle mover.
And it kind of goes back to something that I did mention earlier Brad about overall efficiency.
Yes as an industry or from a completions standpoint we're significantly more efficient today than we were a year ago.
Nearly all of our customers that are drilling horizontal wells have gotten more efficient.
But the efficiency gains that we're making now and going forward are not of the magnitude that they were a year ago.
And so it's -- now you're gaining hours instead of days in a lot of cases.
And so that's helpful but from a magnitude standpoint it's somewhat suppressed compared to what we've experienced over the last year.
Research Division</strong> That's interesting.
Does that relate to your perception let's say pad drilling as a proportion of the total is either slowing in its growth or that it had -- there's only limited legs on that idea? Well I mean I think that -- listen operators where they have the opportunity to pursue pad drilling will continue to look for opportunities to pursue pad drilling and so because it makes them more efficient.
I mean that's how they capture a lot of this efficiencies.
They're a lot more efficient one that they can skid over or have a rig that walks over to the next well and leave the completion equipment right where it is as opposed to putting everything on a truck and haul it off to the next location.
But it does not suit every part of the operating environment that we're in.
It doesn't suit every field it doesn't every opportunity even where a horizontal rig working.
So I mean listen I'd love if everyone of those horizontal rigs were pad.
We'd all be doing a lot better if that were the case.
But it's just not.
Research Division</strong> There are limits to it.
And it's just a practical expectation to have I think in the market.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any final remarks.
Okay.
Thank you all for joining us and we'll see you on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today October 25 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein with Superior Energy Services.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to David Dunlap.
Well good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
As you no doubt saw yesterday we released earnings and reported quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $283 million and net income of $70 million or $0.43 per diluted share.
Since the fourth quarter of 2012 we have been in a relatively flat market in our U.S.
land businesses a market that has we estimate somewhere between 20% and 25% more capacity that could be supported by the current rig count.
Through the second quarter we were able to produce margins from that business that were relatively flat by focusing the businesses on good margin producing opportunities and avoiding what I'll call market share expansion traps.
However during the third quarter continued pricing pressure and inflationary pressure mostly in labor cost were more than we could overcome and margins were squeezed.
The product lines most impacted were in coiled tubing and fluids management.
Fluids management was also impacted by flooding in Colorado but I want to be clear that the bulk of our margin deterioration in the business was not transitory.
In the service rig business revenue was relatively flat while margins were down slightly not so much driven by pricing or inflation as they were down due to a mix of revenue and higher training costs than we anticipated and we'll talk some more about that later.
We expected an increase in hydraulic fracturing revenue from Q2 to Q3 but did not materialize.
Our asset relocation from Q2 is completed before the start of the quarter but a change in job mix from the gel fracs to more slick water fracs resulted in flat revenue overall from Q2 with slightly lower margins.
Still fracturing margins were in the range of 30% consistent with what we have generated in that business over the last 5 quarters.
All in relative to the second quarter our combined U.S.
land revenue from the Onshore Completion and Workover segment and the Production Services segment was down 1%.
However the combined EBITDA margin in those segments was down more than 200 basis points.
We are in the process of adjusting our cost structure in the U.S.
to ensure that we are optimizing our competitive position and margin performance.
Those efforts will be taking place during the course of Q4 many have already begun and may involve some associated severance cost.
You can assume minimal benefits during Q4 from these efforts but we should be in a position to benefit from these efforts by Q1 of 2014.
As for adjusting capacity we are actively seeking opportunities to transfer coiled tubing and potentially pumping services assets into some of our established international markets.
I think that in coiled tubing we should see opportunities to move at least 6 or 8 coiled units over the next year.
We continue to experience positive results at the Gulf of Mexico and international markets.
Year-to-date our Gulf of Mexico revenue has increased 32% and international revenues despite the slowdown in Mexico for coiled tubing has grown 13%.
On a sequential basis our Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 7% impacted by strong well control work and increases in wireline completion tools and premium drill pipe in deep water.
International revenue increased 8% on a sequential basis due to increased subsea construction work in Asia Pacific and increased rentals of premium drill pipe in Asia Pacific Europe and Africa and bottom hole assemblies in Latin America.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our fourth quarter outlook and other developments.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the second quarter of 2013.
In the Drilling Products and Service segment revenue was $216 million and income from operations was $62 million which represents a 5% sequential increase in revenue and 4% sequential increase in operating income.
For the third consecutive quarter international revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate at 16% to $65 million due to increased rentals of premium drill pipe and bottom hole assemblies.
We also had increased accommodations revenue in Europe.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 3% to $78 million with the biggest increases coming from premium drill pipe specialty rentals and accommodations.
The U.S.
land revenue was down slightly to $73 million as a decline in premium drill pipe rentals was partially offset by increases in accommodations.
The segment's gross profit margin was about 160 basis points lower due to business mix however the operating margin was relatively flat.
On the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was unchanged at $398 million and income from operations was 29% lower to $33 million.
Our pressure pumping revenue was unchanged as increased revenue associated with relocating horsepower in the second quarter was offset by lower-priced service intensity and job mix.
A couple of our Eagle Ford fleets pumped significantly less sand as a worked on more slick water frac jobs.
Revenue from fluid management and our service rigs were also virtually unchanged.
In fluid management margins were impacted by job mix and lower pricing for storage in the Bakken and the flooding in Colorado.
In service rigs we incurred higher costs as we high-graded rigs and components and trained select crews to meet customer-specific requirements in higher service intensity completion activity.
Production Services segment revenue was down 3% to $360 million while operating income decreased 25% to $16 million.
The primary factors for the lower operating margin were competitive pressures in coiled tubing as customers continue to move forward service rigs and lower pressure wells and liquids-rich basins and lower margins for snubbing and remedial pumping work.
The U.S.
land revenue decreased 3% to $225 million primarily due to decreases in coiled tubing and wireline services.
The Gulf of Mexico revenues decreased 2% to $53 million as coiled tubing and snubbing revenue were lower.
International revenue decreased 3% to $82 million primarily due to lower coiled tubing activity in Mexico and snubbing work in Latin America.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $215 million which represents a 15% increase from the second quarter.
This segment's income from operations was $13 million which represents a 54% increase.
The Gulf of Mexico revenue was 16% to $111 million primarily due to an increase in well control work and completion tools and services.
International revenue also grew 15% to $82 million in revenue with additional subsea construction activity in Asia Pacific as the primary driver.
U.S.
land revenue improved 12% to $22 million.
Turning to the balance sheet.
During the quarter we reduced debt by $130 million and presently have 0 drawn on the revolving line of credit.
As of September 30 our debt was $1.7 billion which is $260 million lower than this time last year.
The debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5x and debt to total capital was 27%.
Our balance sheet is extremely healthy.
In fact year-to-date the company has generated $169 million of free cash flow.
Capital additions during the third quarter were about $156 million and we expect full year capital additions to be in the range of $610 million to $625 million.
From a modeling perspective in the third -- in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $159 million to $163 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $160 million to $164 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $23 million to $25 million.
Weighted average share count should be approximately 161 million.
During the quarter we lowered our annual effective income tax rate to 35% from 37% as a result of federal income tax credit.
The cumulative catch-up in Q3 resulted in a quarterly tax rate of about 31%.
We do expect the fourth quarter tax rate to be about 35%.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
So beginning with this conference call we are changing the format of guidance we provide.
Since the merger was complete we introduced new segment reporting that offers greater insight and transparency into understanding the relationship between industry trends and drivers and our diverse products and services.
This is the fourth quarter that we've presented the company in its current segment format so I think most of you are accustomed to analyzing our business in the current model.
Beginning with this earnings call our intent is to provide you with qualitative perspectives and factors that could be applied to your outlook for these segments in the near term in this case we're speaking specifically about the fourth quarter.
And I'll now share with you some of our thoughts on those factors and drivers that could influence fourth quarter results.
First you should consider that the starting point or baseline operating income headed into the fourth quarter is lower than third quarter as a result of Gulf of Mexico well control projects that will not repeat.
Although optimism is building that we will see an increase in horizontal drilling in 2014 we do not expect the change in horizontal rig count during the fourth quarter.
From that basis we believe margins in the segments with significant U.S.
land exposure could compress a similar magnitude to what we experienced in the third quarter.
The margin decline will most likely be more revenue-driven due to continued pricing pressures and seasonality.
We do not anticipate favorable changes in job mix or service intensity in hydraulic fracturing or any other completion-related service lines.
As a result it is likely that our U.S.
land revenue will fall by more than the 1% decline that we saw in the third quarter.
As I mentioned earlier we are actively reducing our cost in the U.S.
but I expect only moderate benefits to be realized during Q4.
In addition to the anticipated margin compression in the U.S.
you should also consider that well control revenue carried very strong margins so we would anticipate some margin decline in the Subsea and Technology Solutions segment as well.
Finally normal seasonal factors will most likely reduce well intervention and end-of-life service activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the subsea construction in Asia Pacific resulting in lower revenue for our segments with exposure to those services.
That is a qualitative outlook and hopefully you can fill out your models.
But clearly we anticipate that our fourth quarter results will come in below third quarter.
I want to now discuss a couple of other developments that we think have positive longer-term implications.
The first is in hydraulic fracturing specifically an update on the contract status of our pressure pumping fleet.
We anticipate that 3 contracts that were set to expire in early and mid-2014 will be extended until the first quarter of 2015.
We entered 2013 with 12 contracts.
Here is a tally of how those 12 contracts have fared during the course of the year.
4 contracts expired and were not renewed however in one case we continue to work for the same customer on an ad hoc basis and in another case we've extended our remaining contract in that basin.
4 contracts were or will be extended for 6 to 12 months with economics that are the same or slightly below the initial terms.
And 3 have had no changes and one has had a minor change that we continue to work as planned.
As a result we currently stand at 8 contracted fleets with expirations as follows: 2 at the end of the third quarter 2014 2 during the fourth quarter of 2014 and 4 during Q1 of 2015.
Despite the contract rollovers and expirations the repositioning of horsepower the labor inflation that we've experienced job mix fewer 24/7 operations and other market pressures that seem to negatively impact many other fracturing businesses our pressure pumping revenue and margins in 2013 will be at least as good as they were in 2012.
I don't think there are many companies that can make such a claim our team is to be commended for navigating the current environment.
I think this is further proof that our pressure pumping model is differentiated from our peers and we'll further discuss our pressure pumping business at our upcoming Analyst Day on November 11.
The next development is our share repurchase plan.
On October 14 our board authorized a $400 million repurchase plan that is effective until December 31 2015.
We view this as a strategic tool to opportunistically return cash to shareholders.
We will from this point as part of our regular quarterly reporting give you a breakdown of our share repurchase activity in the earnings conference call that follows the quarter.
This program and our free cash flow expectations provide us the flexibility to consider additional means of returning cash to shareholders and we continue to assess these alternatives.
Finally we expect to exit the year with free cash flow of more than $200 million similar to what we projected at the beginning of the year.
I think that concludes our prepared remarks so we'll open up the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jim Wicklund with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So the guide down in the fourth quarter everybody is talking about is going to be weak in the fourth quarter holiday is not as bad as next year.
And you talk about intervention there are several different businesses that are going to get hit.
Can you transition us into the first and second quarter of '14? I know that everybody is being back-end loaded but -- and I'm not looking for earnings guidance but just kind of activity view? Yes.
So -- I mean let me point to you a couple of things.
I mean in the first quarter of 2014 we should begin to realize some of the benefits from some of the cost savings efforts that we're enacting in the field right now.
So that's one thing.
I think there is a general feeling and I certainly have it that there's good reason to believe that we'll see some improvement in horizontal drilling activity in 2014.
And we've heard the drilling contractors announce a lot of very promising new contracts we've heard our customers talk about adding rigs in the Permian Basin and in the Bakken in Southern Oklahoma and some other places.
All that is very encouraging and I think there's still a question mark as to how many of those rigs will be additive to the fleet or will they potentially displace some rigs that are working today.
What I know about this market is that until we begin to see an addition of horizontal drilling rigs to the current rig count we're going to continue to see the kind of pricing pressure and margin squeeze that we've experienced this quarter and will experience in Q4.
We need to have more horizontal rigs working 20% to 25% capacity it needs to be consumed somewhat before we see that turn.
Jim when that happens I think depends a lot on when we actually see the addition of those horizontal rigs to the rig count.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Everybody talks about rig efficiency and how that benefits but your pressure pumping business you're already working a lot of 24 hours.
But now people are starting to talk about completion efficiency and that's a negative for the pressure pumping gas because you're working so hard on getting efficient that you're doing more work more quickly.
Can you talk about what completion efficiency is for you guys? Yes I mean I think this.
We have as we have demonstrated a little bit different kind of fracturing model and it's different because we work for a group of customers that are largely amongst those most efficient operators today.
And so I don't know that during the course of this year or during the course of next year that we would expect any significant changes in efficiency on those completion sites.
So I've been hearing a little bit of that noise I don't know how that's additive or detractive for us what I expect to see out of that business in 2014 is something very similar to what we saw in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay last question.
What percentage of your U.S.
land business is tied more to rig count than well count? Everything in fracturing is tied to a well count.
Everything else is tied more to a rig count.
Our next question is from Kurt Hallead from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So your -- it looks like your Gulf of Mexico growth rates have been kind of chugging along as pretty much expected.
The international growth rate I'm probably mistaken looks a little bit lighter for the year.
I know you've indicated in the past that you're thinking international could grow what something north of 20% maybe as high as 30% as you head out into '14? Can you give us some updates on how you view the international market place heading into '14? Where you think your opportunity set lies? And you've indicated moving some coiled tubing and frac equipment internationally what are your opportunity sets on the frac front? Yes.
So first off just to make sure we're starting at the right place what we've talked about for international growth expectations are 15% to 20%.
And this year international growth rate is really pressured by the decline that we saw in Mexico which you guys know Mexico has not been a focal point for us from an expansion standpoint but we did when we acquired Complete acquire a fairly substantial coiled tubing business that existed there that was influenced by the slowdown in PEMEX work particularly Northern Mexico that began occur in Q2.
So that's been a bit of headwind on our international growth rate.
I do still feel very comfortable that going forward a growth expectation in international of 15% to 20% is something that's very reasonable for us to achieve.
We would like to take advantage of some of the capacity that is available in the U.S.
and transfer it to some of our existing international markets.
There are at least 2 targets in Latin America and one in the Middle East that we've been working on most -- with most effort here recently.
What I'll tell you about it is this whether it's pressure pumping assets or coiled tubing assets we're not going to move them unless we're certain that we're going to be putting them in a country where they're going be able to go into the market and be additive to us from day 1.
And so -- I mean those assets which are stressed and strained from a margin standpoint in the U.S.
I don't need them to be stressed and strained internationally.
So we're going to be selective about where they go and I mean I don't want to create a perception that these are assets that are going to rollout of here next month and be additive for us.
We're going to be selective about it because I want to ensure that we're successful with those assets.
And by the way those managers that are looking at taking some of those assets the same test that we've put on new capital investment is the test that we would on the transfer of the assets and that is that they need to be margin productive for us and we think about EBITDA margins for those types of assets in the 25% to 35% range and they need to be returns additive for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- so it's really good.
The second question I would have for you is where do you guys -- where do you stand right now with the prospect of a dividend? Yes so we've got a board meeting scheduled in December and I think that will be the opportunity for us to have our next conversation with the board about our thoughts on the dividend.
I feel very comfortable and strong about what our free cash generation is likely to be in 2014 and that's assuming still that we've got headwinds in the U.S.
at least in the first part of the year.
So we've taken a very risked approach and looked to what free cash generation will be and I think that it's very clear to me that this company can carry this out.
So that will be the sentiment as the board -- I have socialized this issue with the board for quite some time and I would expect that we have a lengthy conversation on this very topic in December.
And next is Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to push you though on '14 just a little bit.
Detail for us a little more your cost-cutting initiatives and give us some sense at least directionally it seems like we should kind of model in more margin deterioration in the key businesses x subsea into '14 as well.
Is that fair? Well I think that -- so listen we'll be able to talk to you in a lot more detail about the results of the cost-cutting effort when we visit next quarter.
That's one thing.
I mean clearly what we're trying to do is we're trying to build a cost structure that's more reflective of the market environment that we're in today and we see that market environment as being difficult.
Now here we sit in October of 2013 if we believe that this market was going to turn on January 1 I don't think we'd be going through this kind of cost-cutting effort.
Do you see what I'm saying Marshall? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean now you go through this exercise because you're responding to a market condition and not because you're preparing for the next market condition.
So -- I mean I look at it and think we've got to approach our cost structure in the U.S.
in such a way that can be supportive of a successful business in the environment that we're in now which may very well exist in the early part of 2014.
I know there's a lot of optimism building on the horizontal rigs and I want to be optimistic about it too.
The numbers are becoming impressive but I think it's still undecided and undetermined how many of those rigs will actually be additive to the horizontal rig count or are some of them going to displace rigs.
And that causes us to have some concern that is reflective in the cost-cutting efforts that we're going through today and will be reflected in our anticipated capital spend for the U.S.
next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
Well that-- I think I've got that.
Totally separate issue on the second one but I know you're pretty plugged in so I'd rather ask you.
The coiled tubing weakness we've seen neighbors write down a bunch of units and a lot of people are talking about weakness in that area.
What's going on there? I mean I would think with all the horizontal activity that would be a fairly healthy business.
Did we overbuild there? Or is it a type of unit that people are acquiring? Or is it just -- just give me some insight what's going on in coiled tubing right now? Yes so I mean I think you got to think about where coiled tubing is mandatory on a horizontal completion and where it is not okay? It's mandatory on high-pressure.
And so when you've got the high-pressure completion the coiled tubing unit is really it is your tool of choice for drilling out plugs and washing out sand.
You don't want to kill the well before you do those operations on high-pressure wells so you do it on a live well operation with coiled tubing.
If you're in a lower pressure well however you have an alternative.
And sometimes coiled tubing may be what you choose is that alternative because it runs in and out of the hole so fast.
But you can also use a service rig and you can a thick pipe to accomplish the same thing and you're doing it at a lower day rate.
So kind of steering back to what does it take for coiled tubing demand to increase again? It takes some more high-pressure drilling it takes more high-pressure completions and those were most dominant in the dry gas areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So a shift back to gas helps that market a bunch.
It helps out a lot.
It helps out a lot.
And so I mean the need the demand for coiled tubing in horizontal completions is there whether you're drilling high-pressure wells or low-pressure wells but it increases dramatically when that overall rig activity and completions activity shifts a bit to high-pressure.
And our next question is from Robin Shoemaker with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you if you could give us an update on your fluid management business both currently and in the areas that you had wanted to grow it? Yes so -- I mean our -- this business has been one that has been under considerable margin pressure both from pricing as well as from inflationary cost primarily related to labor.
And it's -- our business is really made up of 3 primary components: it's hauling the trucking piece of it; it's the storage piece of it which is frac things and other forms of storage; and the disposal piece.
The disposal piece is the one piece that has held up quite well and it's a part of the business that we still see and would like to grow from a strategic standpoint.
But as good as that disposal piece is it's overwhelmed by the deterioration we've seen in margins on trucking and on storage.
There's just a lot more capacity in the market than what the market demands and of course we're seeing a lot of the new demand for water transport being filled with pipes.
And so as water movement increases in the marketplace it's not necessarily absorbing truck capacity.
And so that's a market that there's as well as we talk about in coiled tubing it's overcapacity.
We continue to see pricing pressures there and we're still fighting through these structural headwinds of movement to more fixed transport of water and away from trucks.
Research Division</strong> So okay so is the remedy there a higher horizontal rig count? Or is it a different...
Horizontal rig count helps it absolutely does help.
And I can say that about virtually every one of our service lines.
I mean I think -- you're going to have some of those horizontal rig additions assuming that's what happens that their solution is fixed pipe but there'll be others that are trucks and frac tanks.
So horizontal rig count definitely helps.
Higher water production definitely helps.
Bigger frac volumes helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned in your comments that you'd seen some transition from gel to slick water frac.
I wonder if you can explain that because we did see that at one point when the price of guar had gotten particularly high.
But I sort of believe that that was no longer a reason for moving to slick water.
And how exactly does it affect your margins from pressure pumping? Yes so first off don't read into that any industry shift in gel to slick water or vice versa.
I mean there are certain parts of these resource plays that respond better to a gel frac and certain parts of these resource plays that respond just fine to a slick water frac.
And so those determinations are often made by the operator based on exactly where they're completing at that moment in time.
Don't think about it as being an industry shift.
Gel fracs tend to be jobs that generate a bit higher margin for us overall be it chemicals as well as wear-and-tear on equipment.
And so we prefer the maintenance cost that goes along -- on equipment that goes along with a gel frac versus a slick water frac.
So when we're doing slick water fracs we tend to have -- be changing fluid ends out [ph] a bit more frequently.
And then there's [indiscernible] component as well and so typically on the slick water job we are pumping a bit less sand.
Research Division</strong> Just -- if I may ask one more on the -- everyone seems to kind of have an idea of about 20% overcapacity in pressure pumping and you hear that from various people and it seems like that's kind of your assessment.
So what kind of condition is the 20% that's idle? I mean we have seen I think a cannibalization of idle capacity and could you speak to that issue in terms of both pressure pumping and coiled tubing units that maybe idle or have been idle for some time? Well in pressure pumping I think the condition of that industry I'm not speaking of our capacity but of industry capacity I think in coiled tubing it's okay.
In pressure pumping I'm certain that there are some companies out there that have been cannibalizing assets and I think that there are other companies that have been doing -- spending less overall on maintenance and customers require them to take more pumps out with them.
So that effectively consumes more frac fleets when you got to go do an Eagle Ford frac job with 26 pumps instead of 20 pumps because your maintenance program is not good.
I mean that's what's happening to that overcapacity today and of course the longer a situation goes on where these companies are not generating margins to perform proper maintenance on their equipment the quicker you could get to a point where some of those units are just out of fleet.
Other companies don't see that problem.
If you're spending the proper money on maintenance then your fleet condition is quite good.
We do that and I'm sure some of the other big frac companies do as well.
But I think some of these smaller guys that are operating at very poor margins they probably skipped on maintenance and their fleet capacity is not in the same condition as someone else's.
And next is Jim Crandell with Cowen.
Research Division</strong> Dave you've talked about in the past the importance of aligning yourself with customers that are increasing their stage count.
What kind of stage count growth are you seeing now? How are you altering your contracts to take advantage of that and within reason can improve stage count growth offset weaker pricing in the business? Yes I mean let me clarify here.
It's not so much about stage count it's being efficient in the ability to deliver stages which -- I mean this is not an easy thing for our customers to deal with.
I mean you think about the logistics as it takes place on these very large horizontal completions and moving water and moving profit and the entire supply chain that goes along with all of that and operators -- the operators that have developed the formulas that allow them to move sand and move water and move all that supply chain rapidly those are the guys that we prefer to work for because they have the ability to do more stages per day.
And more stages per day is a big benefit in the fracturing business.
And so we have -- as you referred to we have tried to align ourselves with customers that are in that position to deliver the maximum numbers of stages per day.
And we think what we deliver is then a frac operation that is additive to that for them.
So Jim did I answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes I think so Dave.
But all of this is a continuing process and as operators stage count increase that you're working for I guess my final question was that can go a long way toward alleviating further pricing pressure? Well it can.
And I think more importantly I'll move away from our specific customers because as I said we -- that's who we tend to work for.
We migrate towards those types of customers.
But as more of those customers develop in the industry and so in total as more of the marketplace is made up of customers that have achieved that type of level of efficiency where they're delivering a lot of stages per day the whole market benefits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just -- and a brief follow-up Dave.
What are you hearing from your counterparts at the E&amp;Ps about the capital spend for 2014? Yes I don't know.
I mean they're -- most of them are in process of kind of putting that together now or will be over the next month or so.
I mean I think in general the -- what I -- the tone that I hear coming out of those companies is pretty positive.
And clearly they've been in a good position from a cash generation standpoint commodity prices have cooperated they have gained more knowledge in the resource plays about some of the big opportunities development opportunities that they have in front of them and that's particularly true I think in the Permian Basin and in Southern Oklahoma.
So I mean the general tone seems pretty good.
I see estimates out there from some of you guys 5% to 10% or is it 8% to 12%? I don't have the reason to doubt any of that.
I mean I think that the question for us becomes put more horizontal rigs to work.
And if their plans require additional rigs then that's what starts to make me feel very good.
And we've only -- we've really only heard a few bits and pieces from the E&amp;Ps about that so far.
And next is John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just really one for me today.
You noted the cost cutting plans but could that extend into a possible divesture in your non-core product lines? Is that on the table going into...
No I said -- I think I've talked about this consistently over time.
We're in a constant state of evaluation of our product line.
And if we find bits and pieces of the product line that we see are not additive for us in the near future and that we're not willing to make internal investments in from a capital standpoint those are the kinds of things we'll look to divest.
And we've done that John.
We've done that.
Research Division</strong> No I know you have.
I just -- I didn't know it's part of the current process that's all.
It's always part of the process.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
On idle horsepower you have there on the frac side at this point are you seeing any customer interest to take those spreads next year? Yes so -- I mean we're always in conversation with the customers our kind of our core customers and the people who are to see if there would be an opportunity to place one of those fleets.
I don't want to -- and so first off those conversations are always going on.
We're always looking for a way to put one of those fleets to work but our standards for putting them to work has been pretty straightforward.
I mean we don't want to put a fleet out there that's going to be dilutive to us from a margin standpoint.
In other words if we're generating and we are generating around 30% margin with the fleets that work out there today I don't want to put another fleet out there and see our margin in that business drop to 27%.
And so you dilute [ph] [indiscernible].
So we're constantly having those conversations.
I think that if we do see additions to the horizontal rig count that people are beginning to get optimistic about for 2014 and the seriousness of those conversations will increase right? And next is Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Brief interlude from the U.S.
land inquisition here.
Looking at your international results in DPS pretty impressive growth.
Just -- can we revisit kind of the characteristics of that revenue stream? When I think of that business in the U.S.
I think about once you get the revenue achieved it's pretty sticky in the multiyear contracts behind it.
I mean is that more or less the case as well internationally? Therefore the base that we see for 3Q is kind of what we'll be building off of here going forward? That's exactly what you can consider.
I mean it does tend to be pretty sticky and that's what we see in the international markets with rental tools and it's part of the reason why I've been really consistent in saying when we get the opportunity grow international with rental tools that's the product line of choice that we prefer to start with.
Because it's very reliable very high margin very high return.
Research Division</strong> Is the duration actually a little longer typically internationally? It varies from market to market.
I mean in certain areas the duration is quite long and Brazil is a good example of that.
We got a landing string contract starting up this quarter in Brazil that's got a 5-year primary term and a potential 5-year extension.
You don't see that kind of opportunity in -- anywhere in the U.S.
and that's pretty long even for the international markets.
I mean more often in the international market it's either going to be tied to a rig and so that rig may be under contract in a particular market for 2 or 3 years may be going under contract for 6 months.
It varies quite a bit.
The NOCs all have a little different style that they put towards the longevity of their contracts.
But there's certainly more contracts internationally than what we see in the U.S.
business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the kind of sequential weakness in the international business within Production Services I guess you characterized that more as a kind of the hangover from Mexico.
Is there anything else to read into it? And then I guess from your commentary you would say that the profitability on a sequential basis was still -- decrease was still mainly relegated to the U.S.
there? That's exactly right.
It was mainly relegated to the U.S.
and internationally I think it was primarily related just to some timing issues on snubbing which our snubbing business tends to move around quite a bit from one country to the next.
And so some quarters they're going to be operating full steam ahead in Thailand and the next quarter they may only work for a month in Thailand.
And so that's part of what provides some of that variability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Dave I don't think you've left a lot of ambiguity about your thoughts here for 4Q.
But I do want to make sure that we're dialing in the right amount of weakness given some of the well control projects that went off in 3Q.
As we think about the Gulf as a whole my math suggests you would be modeling probably at least 10% down top line and maybe closer to 15%? Yes that's probably closer to 10%.
And next is Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
I think we've gone through most of what's important here.
Maybe just some initial qualitative thoughts on the capital spending program for 2014 understanding that you guys haven't gone through the budgeting process.
But am I correct in assuming that in the U.S.
really wouldn't count on much investment from a growth standpoint outside of the drilling rentals business? And I know you referenced it earlier I'm assuming it's kind of the same in terms of international? You are correct about U.S.
I mean we will have a degree of maintenance spend in the U.S.
last year we did this year.
And it's very much in line with some of the comments that I made about maintaining execution operational execution abilities that we have.
We're going to spend money on frac equipment.
We're going to need to put frac equipment out there that is operating as it's supposed to and so that requires a bit of maintenance spend.
But outside of maintenance spend in the U.S.
don't look for much in the way of growth CapEx.
We'll continue to fund those rental tool expansion opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico and in international.
And I'm sure we will have some other production services that require some CapEx on the international side next year as well.
But the fact that I've got some equipment from the U.S.
to transfer may cause it to be a bit less.
So let me get to your question which is about 2014 CapEx.
From where we sit today I don't think that it is higher than what our 2013 level would be.
I have been saying for the last few quarters that -- maybe expect a little bit of growth in overall CapEx this year where we gave a range of $600 million to $700 million a few months ago I may have said think about next year being $650 million to $750 million or something like that.
But where was sit right now I think it's probably more likely to be flat with where we are today and perhaps even down a little bit.
Okay very helpful.
Just a comment.
Having availability of assets from the U.S.
to transfer international and fill some of those expansion needs is very helpful.
Absolutely.
Okay that makes sense.
And Saudi Arabia really hasn't come up on the call.
I know it's still a relatively fledgling business for you but there seems to be a lot of optimism about additions to the rig count here.
Maybe you could share your outlook on how that plays out for you guys in '14? Well we also feel very good about the opportunity in Saudi Arabia.
It's a place that we've been -- we've been talking to Aramco and had a dialogue with them over the last several quarters about a potential service line expansion.
So just to set the stage we have well control pressure control and snubbing services there now and we'd like to add a few product lines to that mix.
And I think Aramco is very interested in having us provide a broader suite our product lines in the country.
So I'm very optimistic about Saudi and in fact we'll be talking about Saudi more in our Analyst Day on November 11 which I just shamelessly plugged again.
And next is Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> What I was wondering Dave can you give us a sense -- if you look at the North American competitive landscape the large integrated service companies are all doing various things to sort of differentiate themselves and/or cut costs at the well site.
How do you compete with that over time? Well I mean I don't think that what they're doing is substantially different from what we're doing.
They look at ways when they're doing through these down markets to restructure their cost and be able to deliver a better competitive position and better margins.
And that's exactly what we're doing.
We didn't put a tagline on ours necessarily and we don't have a big internal program that we're promoting but the efforts I would say are basically the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No -- and your margins have been -- the margins have been good.
I'm just curious as to sort of as things evolve here has there been any change in the approach relative to kind of where we were a year ago? And it doesn't sound like some from your comments there has been.
I think substantially -- I mean our business -- listen all of these companies are a little bit different and some of the -- some of our larger competitors in the U.S.
they've got a very centralized approach to the way that they do things and the way that we manage.
Ours does not.
We're very reliant on strong field management and strong field execution.
So I don't sit back and develop corporate-wide programs for those guys to initiate to be more competitive or to control their costs.
They know how to do it best in their businesses and that's what they're doing right now.
And it's interesting I mean we all saw the market and our margin development occurring during the course of the Q3 in the same way.
I saw it they saw it and they didn't need me to tell them to take action.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question would be when you look at the international growth targets that you sort of targeted at that 15% 20% range coming off of a tougher year could we see a number above that range next year if we get some recovery in Mexico and the other pieces are carrying along as expected? Sure you could.
And I think the way I've talked about that range in the past I feel comfortable in talking about a 15% to 20% annual growth rate.
There may be a year like this one where we struggle to get to 15% because of some headwinds and there'll be some years that we blow past 20%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you have your Analyst Day soon? Yes.
See you then thanks.
Next is Walther Lovato with Passport Capital.
I had a question on the share repurchase program.
So I assume no shares were purchased in the last -- I guess you're going to give results or share repurchase implementation results at the end of every subsequent quarter is that right? That's correct.
So the share repurchase program was put in place on October 14.
So when we will report on -- that's during the fourth quarter we'll report on our fourth quarter repurchase activity when we give the fourth quarter earnings results and conference call.
Okay.
And can you give us a sense of kind of how you envision I guess deploying this program? Yes I think it's pretty consistent with what I've said about a share repurchase authorization for the last 5 or 6 quarters.
I've been talking about this with shareholders for a long time even though we haven't been doing it.
Because our first priority was to repay debt.
We got that done we got the revolver at 0.
And when the revolver hits 0 is when we put the repurchase authority in place.
But by message on this as far as strategy has been consistent we intend to take advantage of that share repurchase authority at those moments in time when there's a disconnect between the stock price and where we believe the market's going.
And when we see that we want to be opportunistic in the same way that you would be.
But sometimes that happens and for whatever reason investors haven't responded to it.
And that's when I intend to respond.
Okay.
Well again congratulations on implementing the share repurchase I mean with the free cash flow you're generating I think it's great opportunity and tool in your toolbox.
And next is Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave quick point of clarification on the Gulf of Mexico.
I think earlier you'd alluded to the potential to see Gulf of Mexico revenues down 10% sequentially.
You had a big quarter in Subsea Technical Solutions in the GOM was that 10% comment specific to Subsea Technical Solutions or overall GOM off potentially as much of a 10% from Q3 to Q4? It was mostly Subsea Technical Solutions with the Gulf of Mexico revenue within that segment Daniel.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
Good to hear that clarification.
Just to clarify that Daniel we had a pretty significant quarter from a well control standpoint in the third quarter in the Gulf of Mexico.
And you can appreciate that that's not always repeatable sometimes it is but it's difficult to plan.
And a lot of the Gulf seasonality is within that segment that's where a lot of the end-of-life services P&amp;A decommissioning and then the Production Services is where you'd also see it.
But clearly the bigger percentage will be or we expect it to be in the Subsea Technical Solutions.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's helpful.
And then if we look at the international business.
Over the last couple of quarters you've stepped up revenue high-single digits sequentially.
Despite headwinds in Mexico 2 questions.
Is Mexico at a decent baseline at this point? And then with a couple of those Brazil contracts on ramp I mean is there any reason why you -- there's some seasonality in international but is there any reason why high-single digits isn't sustainable a sequential step up into the fourth quarter? The contracts starts late in the quarter.
Yes.
I mean the Brazil start-up contracts were not all on October 1.
So I mean we do see the start up during the course of the quarter but we don't have the benefit for the entire quarter.
And to your Mexico question Daniel it's a great question.
I mean we heard all kinds of different things out of Mexico and I've not been one to be terribly enthusiastic about a step up that PEMEX is going to have that gets us off a bottom.
It kind of feels at the moment like we're on bottom but I don't want to build a huge amount of optimism out there on something that could potentially change in Mexico [ph] first half of 2014.
Are we on bottom? Man I think we are.
But we've seen PEMEX do some unusual things that we didn't expect before.
That was a really vague answer wasn't it? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Well it's Mexico.
It's honest.
I don't know what else to say it's honest.
Next is Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions directed at cash flow please.
First on '13.
Did I hear you say you think you're going to be at $200 million in free cash flow for the year? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Is my math right that in the first half of the year it was breakeven? Because that's what I -- as we've gone through the Qs and stuff? So I just want to make sure I'm comparing sort of the same numbers because I don't have as much free cash in my model? That doesn't sound right.
Yes most of it was generated in the third quarter.
Yes.
The biggest quarter for us was the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And obviously another big quarter expected at Q4? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The second question similar I suppose in that it's free cash related.
But as you're thinking about a dividend and as you're presumably presenting this to your board and then I can only imagine that the question of sort of normalized earnings and normalized free cash has to be established at some level of confidence.
So obviously normalized earnings is hard to assess but maybe normalized CapEx isn't or it's easier.
So we're obviously looking at $600 million-ish maybe for couple of years now.
You say there's a maintenance CapEx provided but presumably you need to replace earnings power over that normalized period right? So you have to replace all the pumping equipment as it dies and all the other stuff.
What -- if you'll sort of humor me what is a normalized capital expenditure? I mean is it more like $1 billion to sustain earnings power? Because you have a -- there's a set of olding -- of aging equipment here? Is that -- not to mention what you're going to wind up building in drill pipe and the like? I mean is it a pretty big number is I supposed what I'm getting to get at.
No.
It's not nearly as big as the way you characterize that.
We see earnings maintenance CapEx in this company as being somewhere closer to $300 million than $1 billion.
Research Division</strong> That's not just keeping so it's replacing as well? I understand you've been careful in the word choice but that's replacing capital too? That's absolutely right.
I'll give you an example of that.
I mean we spent this year -- we characterize it as maintenance capital it's earnings and revenue maintenance is what we're -- I know that's an unusual term that certain regulatory agencies hate to hear used.
But think about it we think about maintenance capital as being capital that's required in order to maintain the revenue and earnings level that we have today.
And so as an example we spent I don't know somewhere in the order of $30 million or $40 million in our fracturing business this year.
And we are making the capital investments in order to maintain the earnings power that we have in the fracturing business.
And that's included in the assessment that we make of somewhere in the neighborhood of $300 million a year as been the maintenance requirement of this company so you'll know.
And our final question comes from Byron Pope from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one question for me.
Dave I know you guys are kind of more levered to the Gulf of Mexico but in thinking about the U.S.
onshore rental drill pipe market it seems like there's industry-wide too much pipe on the ground given that the stagnant U.S.
horizontal rig count.
To the extent that we see some of these newbuild rigs displace current rigs such that the overall horizontal rig count stays flattish are there opportunities for you guys to potentially redeploy some of that premium drill pipe for land-based applications internationally given your infrastructure? Or do you just sort of wait it out? There are absolutely opportunities to transfer.
And yes that's something we can do today.
And by the way I mean that pipe didn't have to go to a land opportunity it could to an offshore opportunity as well.
I mean a lot of the pipe that has been brought into the U.S.
is 3.5-inch XT and more commonly that's going to be used on a U.S.
horizontal well.
But there are other places that the pipe gets used.
And I think one of the things that we've done very well in that business and demonstrated this exceptionally well during the Macondo-induced moratorium in 2010 and 2011 is the ability to transfer assets to markets where we can make money.
Thank you.
I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing comments.
Well thanks to all of you for joining us today.
And we hope to see you on November 11 at our Investor Day.
Thanks a lot.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today February 26 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management will make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures on its website.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We reported quarterly revenue of $1.1 billion and EBITDA of $225 million and non-GAAP adjusted net income of $48.3 million or $0.30 per diluted share in our earnings release yesterday afternoon.
When normalizing our results by adding back the charges outlined in the earnings release our operating performance in the fourth quarter was near our expectations despite weather disruptions in the US.
On our last call we noted that revenue and margins in U.S.
land completion and production services would continue to come under pressure at a pace similar to the third quarter due to pricing job mix and seasonal factors.
Those drivers played a role in the 6% decline we experienced in U.S.
land revenue and the margin compression in segments with a service exposure.
Although we certainly expected weather to be an issue during the fourth quarter the impact of unusually bad weather in November and December was more than we anticipated.
Pressure pumping and well service rigs in North Dakota Mid-Continent and Permian Basin were all impacted at some point during the quarter resulting in lower utilization and lower margin.
There were four areas that helped us offset the weather impact.
We saw some strengthening in the fluids management business primarily in the Rocky’s where we have a very strong market share position and saw a nice increase in utilization.
In addition the fluids management business benefited from high demand for heating fluids as a result of colder than normal weather.
The Gulf of Mexico market continues to be stellar for our drilling products and services.
We had an 18% increase in Gulf of Mexico revenue in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter in this segment.
In addition we had a 33% increase in Gulf of Mexico revenue in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 in this segment.
And finally we had a 30% Gulf of Mexico revenue increase in overall 2013 versus 2012 in this segment.
This lead to expansion of both gross profit and operating margins and in fact the gross profit margin of 68% was the highest in the Post-Macondo era.
You have to go back to the fourth quarter of 2008 to find higher margin for this segment.
Another bright spot in the quarter was in Production Services segment were international revenue growth of 6% was experienced over the third quarter.
One of the highlights there is the pressure pumping contract that started in Brazil.
And finally the third quarter was a good quarter for well control work but the fourth quarter was even better as we participated in several significant well control jobs in Latin America and in Asia.
I think that this fourth quarter is as good demonstration of how diversity works to our favor.
International and Gulf of Mexico exposure helped to overcome a short fall in earnings from North America.
Now let me comment on some of the charges incurred and decisions made around certain strategies that the company has pursued for the past several years.
The charges were driven by underperformance in services and strategies within the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment.
Many of you are aware of our efforts to enter the subsea well interventions markets four years ago.
Our thesis then was that we could utilize subsea operating vessels to deliver to customers a complete solution of subsea well interventions services with access through our pressure control expertise.
While we have successfully completed several plug and abandonment projects using the package of vessels lubricators and Wireline services market adoption of Rigless Well Intervention solutions has been slow in the Post-Macondo operating environment.
As a result we are seeking strategic alternatives for our subsea construction business based in the Asia-Pacific market.
I also want to address the ten set charge for the ongoing decommissioning projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
For several years we produced good results in the conventional Gulf of Mexico platform decommissioning market.
Our Wild Well Control team was one of the first groups to respond to hurricane recovery efforts in the Gulf which included many conventional and unconventional decommissioning projects.
We take great pride in having successfully and safely completed projects of all sizes and complexities over the past decade.
However based on market condition we have not produced positive results in the conventional decommissioning business in recent years.
As a result we will no longer take on conventional decommissioning projects in the Gulf including large scale turnkey projects that have been part of these operations.
As part of this exist we will divest our derrick barge.
We will continue to execute unconventional decommissioning projects for our Gulf of Mexico client if and when those opportunities arise.
The charges we incurred during the fourth quarter do not adversely impact our earnings power going forward.
I think that the results of these actions will help sharpen our core product line focus back to completion intervention and rental tool product line and eliminate unexpected earnings headwinds that have been caused by these strategies in recent year.
Last quarter I told you that we would be initiating a cost reduction and restructuring effort during the fourth quarter.
Let me give you an update on that effort.
Some of our completion and production services including fluid management and coiled tubing were most impacted by margin compression that we experienced during the year.
During the fourth quarter we took actions to close some marginal operating locations and reduce headcount in these businesses.
We expect that the actions that we have taken for which we incurred about $5.2 million in cost during the fourth quarter will save us in the range of $20 million to $30 million per year.
The full benefit of the savings will become apparent in our second quarter results.
In the meantime we continue to look for cost efficiencies in these businesses.
Before I turn the call over to Robert Taylor let me talk about 2013 in summary.
From an earnings standpoint 2013 did not meet our expectations.
However we did accomplish several of the goals we laid-out at the beginning of the year.
We generated free cash flow well in excess of $225 million.
We paid down the remainder of the $300 million in 6.875 senior notes.
We implemented a share repurchase plan purchasing $427 000 shares during the fourth quarter of 2013.
We announced the initiation of a quarterly dividend of $0.8 making the first payment on that last week.
Our overall Gulf of Mexico business grew 26% as we continue to leverage our strong deepwater drilling products and services franchise.
Excluding Mexico our international revenue grew 12% as we successfully completed our first full year in Argentina and Saudi Arabia.
Kicked off long-term projects in Brazil and further expanded our drilling products and services in Africa.
And we have initial steps to reduce cost in the U.S.
and better position the company to take advantage of what appears to be a U.S.
market poised to grow.
After Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter I will discuss our 2014 outlook along with our 2014 capital expenditures plan.
And with that I now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I’ll make comparisons to third quarter 2013.
I will also refer to adjusted operating income which excludes the specific charges reported in each segment.
In the Drilling Products and Service segment revenue was $224 million and adjusted income from operations was $69 million which represents a 4% sequential increase in revenue and an 11% sequential increase in operating income.
As Dave highlighted earlier this segment continues to be the shining star in terms of consistent revenue growth and margin expansion.
The 18% Gulf of Mexico increase was driven by increases in premium drill pipes and specialty rental especially in the deepwater.
International revenue experienced the highest segment growth rate during each of the first three quarters in 2013.
Although international revenue was flat this quarter it was up 34% over the fourth quarter of 2012.
In fact on an annual basis international revenue in this segment increased 23%.
U.S.
land revenue was down 8% to $67 million as a result of lower demand for premium drill pipes and downhaul tool rentals due to an Eagle Ford customer letting go rigs towards year-end.
We also mentioned that deepwater Gulf of Mexico rentals market generates our highest margin and as you can see the impact that the Gulf revenue growth had on this quarter’s gross profit margin.
In the Onshore Completions and Workover Services segment revenue was down 6% at $375 million and adjusted income from operation was 57% lower down to $14 million.
Declines in pressure pumping and well service rigs more than offset the increase in fluids management revenue.
Margins were impacted by the reduced activity level lower pricing and higher weather related cost in pressure pumping.
Production services segment revenue was down 3% to $349 million while adjusted operating income decreased 74% to $4 million.
International revenue was 6% higher at $87 million due to an increase in snubbing activity in Saudi Arabia and pressure pumping in Brazil.
These were partially offset by lower coiled tubing activity in Mexico.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 5% to $240 million primarily due to decreases in coiled tubing and remedial pumping.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 9% to $48 million as activity in wireline and pressure control tube was lower while coiled tubing was slightly higher.
In the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment revenue was $181 million which represents a 16% decrease from the third quarter.
This segments adjusted income from operations was $3 million which represents a 76% decrease.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was down 12% to $99 million primarily due to a decrease in well control work and completion tools and services.
International revenue was 21% lower to $65 million in revenue with lower subsea construction activity in Asia-Pacific more than offsetting increases in well control work and completion tools and services.
U.S.
land revenue declined 23% to $17 million.
Turning to the balance sheet at the end of the year our debt was $1.7 billion which was about $117 million lower than this time last year.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5 times and debt-to-total capital was 29%.
For the year the company generated nearly $284 million of free cash flow.
As Dave mentioned we’ve repurchased and retired 427 000 shares at a total cost of $10.6 million.
Capital additions in the fourth quarter were about $174 million and full year 2013 capital additions were $620 million.
From a modeling perspective in the first quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $155 million to $158 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $162 million to $164 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Weighted average share count should approximately $162 million for the quarter.
As a result of certain credits in year-end adjustments our 2013 effective income tax rate excluding the reduction and value of assets was 33.7% versus 35% at the end of the third quarter resulting in a cumulative catch-up in the fourth quarter of about $4 million.
We expect our effective income tax to be 37% in the year 2014.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
Let me take a few minutes to walk you through some of our assumptions about how 2014 should progress.
In the U.S.
market we are clearly optimistic about the recent increase in horizontal rig count and the expectation that horizontal rigs will continue to increase during the course of the year.
We believe that the addition of these rigs most of which we think are destined for the Permian Basin will drive higher utilization in our underutilized completion and production businesses.
However it is also important to note that seasonally Q1 is seldom a strong quarter for us and this year is no exception.
So let’s talk about how we progress from the fourth quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014.
Using the non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.30 for the fourth quarter of 2013 as the base you should consider included in that number is about $2.5 of tax benefit and another $0.03 of likely non-recurring well control work.
In a normal first quarter seasonal factors and preparation time on the part of our customers generally drive activity lower in the Gulf of Mexico the U.S.
land market and in certain international markets.
This first quarter has been anything but normal as extreme weather in January and early February have made it difficult to gain any traction in the U.S.
especially in the Bakken.
We lost eight days to weather in North Dakota so far which has impacted many services especially pressure pumping.
In addition to pressure pumping fleet downtime we’ve incurred higher fuel costs as we’ve kept trucks running on location to avoid pumps and equipment from freezing up.
In the Gulf of Mexico our stimulation vessel has been out of service for the first quarter as we refurbished the stimulation plant.
In addition weather fronts have resulted in rough seas making it more difficult than usual to mobilize equipment spreads for well maintenance projects in the shallow water.
Finally our fracturing business has experienced some dynamics which ultimately bode very well for us.
We have eight fleets that are currently contracted on terms that were finalize during Q3 and Q4.
These contracted fleets represent about 60% of our fracturing revenue and we are comfortable that the terms agreed to in these contracts will generate mid-20s EBITDA margins.
We now have four frac fleets working on an exclusive basis for a relatively new customer in Texas primarily the Permian Basin.
Included in those four fleets is one fleet that was recently activated from our ideal capacity.
All four of these fleets are working today but we don’t expect to get up to the full utilization with all four fleets until the second quarter.
I think that the end results is that factoring margins which were low in Q4 stayed at similar level during Q1 and then begin to increase in Q2 with higher utilization.
We think that without the utilization headwinds caused by unusually severe winter weather and an expanded frac fleet working at a higher efficiency that the second quarter is where you will witness earnings inflection and we think that our Q2 earnings in 2014 will be similar to Q2 earnings in 2013 albeit with a slightly different makeup.
North America margins are lower than last year but are offset by contributions from international and drilling products and services.
This leads us with continued operating leverage in the U.S.
if we see the horizontal rig continue to expand during 2014.
We still have underutilized capacity in the U.S.
including now three ideal frac fleets.
In summary Q1 2014 earnings should be lower than Q4 2013 non-GAAP earnings and Q2 2014 could be that inflection point that will get us back to second quarter 2013 earnings albeit with a slightly different composition than we had last year.
And I’ve spend a lot of time here trying to walk you through our thoughts on U.S.
completions and production business let me spend a few minutes on other expectations for 2014.
We are very pleased with the progress that we’ve made in our growth capital investment in international rental tools and production services.
We will continue to focus our growth capital to these businesses in 2014 with an overall capital spend plan of $600 million to $650 million and around $300 million of that dedicated to continued rental tool and international growth.
Our maintenance capital spend will be about 50% of the overall CapEx budget with an increase in maintenance capital to hydraulic fracturing.
As we keep our working fleet in perfect order to continue to drive our operational excellence in the field.
We will continue to keep a close watch on free cash generation during 2014 which we expect will once again exceed $200 million providing the cash sources for continued dividends and share repurchases.
And that concludes our prepared remarks so I think what we’ll do is now turn the line over to questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning Dave.
Just following up on your commentary on the 2014 outlook what’s your view of overall U.S.
spending for 2014? Are we thinking out 5% 10% 15% can you give us your best guess on I know it’s just going to be a guess as to what you think we flush out through the course of the year? I think it’s in the neighborhood of 5% to 6%.
I mean lately there have been some talk about an upward bias to that.
I don’t know Marshall but 5% to 6% seems right.
And I think it fits with what we see and what we believe happens in the way of overall horizontal rig addition.
And overall horizontal rig addition we see going up somewhere in the 70% to 80% something like that that kind of ties back to a 5% to 6% increase in spend.
Inc.</strong> Is that enough to get those three ideal fleets and maybe a few coiled tubing rigs back to work by the second half? I don’t know.
I mean we feel real good about getting one ideal fleet to the market early in the year.
We continue to have conversations with customers.
I think it’s probably a bit much to ask for all three of those fleets to be out into the marketplace before the end of 2014.
But yeah we will certainly work to that end.
I do think that what that 5% to 6% increase in spend is that list everything as utilization throughout the supply chain goes out.
So that’s in coiled tubing and fluid management service rigs and everything we do in the completion supply chain.
So of all that points in a very solid direction and those three fleets will continue to be a focus for us as we’re trying to find the right customers to work for that are going to deliver the margin in that frac business that we expect.
Inc.</strong> All right last one from me.
Gulf of Mexico you rocked it last year up 30% plus or minus in international.
I think maybe a little less than we thought a year ago maybe up 10% plus or minus.
What is our outlook for 2014 in both of those? Are we looking at Gulf of Mexico up 10% 20% 30% in likewise international versus 10% growth we saw in 2013? Yes 30% growth in the Gulf of Mexico I don’t believe is repeatable.
Remember we still had in 2013 the first half of the year some pretty favorable comps to first half of 2012 which was impacted by Macondo.
But I think as you think about – as we think about Gulf of Mexico growth year-over-year thinking somewhere in the range of 10% maybe low teens in overall growth.
A balance between deepwater and shelf is probably about right.
On the international front we do believe and I’ve been open in stating that we should be a company that can target in that range of 15% and some years up to 20% international growth.
I think this year we go into the year thinking 15% is the right amount and maybe once we contract we get some upside to that.
Inc.</strong> Outstanding.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Jeff Spittel of Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead Thanks good morning Dave good morning fellas.
Hi Jeff.
Maybe Dave just some clarification on that decommissioning project I am assuming it was a turnkey project and there is not going to be a subsequent opportunity for cost recovery if that’s the case.
I am also assuming that with the charge that you recorded this quarter the project is sufficiently complete or close enough or you feel like there is not going to be any additional cost or ring fence whatever the cost escalation was? Is that correct?  Well that is correct.
I mean what we’ve done is we’ve ring fenced the cost escalation.
It is a turnkey project that will complete about midyear 2014 and we think what we’ve done now the project accounting so when you recognize you get a higher cost you got to take them and that’s done in this case.
Okay.
And then I guess with regard to natural gas with the spike I am sure you knew this question was coming but how does that play into the outlook and are you seeing any green suits or at least in your conversions with customers a little bit more optimism about activity in some of the dry gas basins? I guess a bit premature for that.
I think with the exception of Chesapeake we really haven’t seen other operators that have talked about moving any of their spend into dry gas areas.
And my personal thought on this is 2014 is going to continue to be a year were our customers are focused in the oil basins and I don’t believe that we are going to see what is part of current E&amp;P budgets redirected to dry gas.
Sure that makes sense.
Okay thanks Dave I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
And next is Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Can you give us the impact of the businesses that you’re getting out of in Q4 in 2013 revenue margin? Yes.
I mean the revenue from those businesses makes up roughly 40% of the overall revenue in the Subsea and Technical Solutions segment.
Okay very good.
And negative margin contribution? There has certainly not been additive force in recent years and we’ve talked about several of these strategies over the past few years and generally what we see from these businesses is that they have not been additive to us from a margin standpoint.
I think they have some quarters where they have positive force and other quarters where there have been negative force.
But I think overall when we think about it over the time span that we’ve run the strategies they’ve been relatively neutral.
Okay.
I’ll go with neutral.
And then in terms of – so that’s the Subsea and Technical Solutions.
So how about in Venezuela can you quantify the impact in the business on a go forward basis or I am sorry how much it was in 2013? Yes.
I mean we have not done any work in Venezuela since about August.
We have intermittently worked in Venezuela over the last five years.
I think that we’ve had the only snubbing capability in the country and the way that that has operated over time is that we go work for four or five months and build up to a point where we had a receivable that was approaching $10 million and we shut it down.
So we got paid.
And until this past August that didn’t work for us.
We will be shutting down for two months and then [indiscernible] some would go back to work.
In August we shut down because we haven’t been paid for a while and they have responded by seizing assets from us in November.
So I guess what I’d say about the contribution from Venezuela is it’s been insignificant over the past several years and by insignificant I mean revenue levels that are $6 million $7 million and clearly that is not a big driver for margin force.
But have been positive in margins but this is not material.
Okay.
So it’s not a big – there is not a big cost sync either though.
It’s just kind of – it’s a very small item either way.
Okay all right very good.
I appreciate that.
Small item and I think as much as anything we’ve reached a point in Venezuela where we were concerned about being able to provide security for our people and as much as we would like to stay in any market particularly one that is lucrative as Venezuela with the overall hydrocarbon resource that they have.
If we can’t be certain in the security of our people then we need to go do something else.
Fair enough.
Okay.
Maybe an unrelated follow-up if I may.
With respect to the Permian and obviously a hot topic because that’s where a lot of the horizontal activity is going what are you doing perhaps in terms of asset positioning? Are you moving resources into the Permian expanding operations there to catch the incremental work? I’d say we have had – I mentioned that we activated one of the ideal frac fleets.
Fair.
I think that it was only significant asset movement that we’ve had in the Permian Basin over the last six months and we did start moving fracturing assets there in 2011.
We’ve got a good coiled tubing position there and all of our product lines really are represented well in the Permian.
We’ve got to my knowledge the infrastructure – there is one facility to my knowledge.
There is one facility that is under construction in Odessa to accommodate the more service intensive operation.
But overall we’re pretty well set up there.
Okay.
I mean for example there is your fluid hauling business is there incremental opportunity there for example and I imagine there’s a lot of trucks already but is there some potential to move assets there to capture again incremental hauling work? There is.
The Permian Basin for us in the fluid management business is not one of our highest market positions and so I mean I think that does create an opportunity for us.
If we see that we’re able to going there with assets that we’re going to be able to work at reasonable price.
Sure.
And I don’t know that we’ve witnessed to this point that kind of increase in market pricing that would cause us to transfer additional fluid management assets herein today but that could change during 2014.
I understand.
Thanks for the color.
I appreciated it.
Turn it back.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Blake.
Just starting with kind of your charge for the cost savings initiatives and restructuring initiatives it’s a good ratio here given the size of your U.S.
franchise maybe not enormously impactful but I get the feeling from your commentary that you see an infection point in 2Q that this will be most of what you see and maybe have a plan drawn-up for a market that’s a little bit tougher but that’s not necessarily you’re going to something you’re going to put in action we probably won’t see much more called out from here? I don’t know that you’ll see much called out.
I certainly felt indeed in the third quarter to call out that there were some things that we needed to do from a cost efficiency standpoint.
A lot of companies began restructuring and cost cutting efforts back in 2012.
And we weren’t one of those.
We saw in general our margins which dropped during the second half of 2012.
Hope fairly steady in the first half of 2013 and that really prevented us I guess from stepping forward with any real strong cost reduction efforts.
When the margin declined in Q3 that was called the action force.
And we’ve been extremely focused now in ensuring that what we have is a cost structure that’s right sized for the current market environment but doesn’t hinder our ability to respond if we see incrementally better activity which we think will happen in 2014.
Great and then a question just around the Gulf of Mexico performance in DPS this quarter who typically think of that revenue stream is been fairly sticky even when you have a big step up like that.
I mean is that reflective of kind of the run rate of the business heading into the New Year in the Gulf of Mexico in DPS? It’s true what you say drilling products and services revenue is as sticky as it gets in this company.
Okay and I guess is a follow on to that and I’ll turn it back.
What does the deepwater portion of that business and deepwater portion of your international exposure tell you about the state of the offshore market right now as the contract drillers kind of suffer from some of these fits and starts of and threats of slower spending environment? Yes I don’t know that.
We certainly have a different view.
We certainly don’t have the same challenge that the drilling contractors have in the deepwater relative to new generation equipment versus old generation equipment I guess.
What we believed about the deepwater Gulf of Mexico for sometime is that we would see a net increase in 2014 kind of three to four rigs and that’s still what we think is the case.
We will have some rigs that come in that are new generation rigs and some rigs that go out that maybe older generation rigs.
And I guess that we happened to be one of the owners of those old generation rigs we’re not real happy about it but we are indifferent.
Our rental opportunities are similar on either form of rig.
Great thanks for the help.
I’ll turn it back.
You bet.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
L.L.C.</strong>  Good morning guys.
Hi Daniel.
L.L.C.</strong>  Dave I think you mentioned the derrick barge in the Gulf of Mexico is an asset you would look to maybe divest.
There are fixed assets associated with Gulf of Mexico decom and then could you describe the owned asset base you possess in South East Asia? So I mean the largest individual asset contained within that decommissioning business in the Gulf of Mexico is the derrick barge.
I mean there are clearly other assets in that business but that’s the single largest.
And I am sorry your question about owned asset base in Asia-Pacific? L.L.C.</strong> Yes.
Could you be specific? L.L.C.</strong> Yes.
What’s the vessel list like out there at this point? Yes for us we owned a total of four vessels.
Yes.
Four vessels and I think there is another one or two chartered or leased.
And then there is sat diving systems and RV’s others assets associated with the business.
L.L.C.</strong> And do you still have any funding commitments left outstanding related to the CSS or what’s the status of that asset? It’s still in the shipyard and we do have a final payment that will be made during 2014 on construction of that vessel.
I think Daniel it’s in the range of $25 million or $30 million.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And the owned total of four vessels that would exclude the CSS or the CSS was in that count? That excludes it.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
It has hadn’t been in the market yet.
So we hadn’t included as part of working vessel count.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay helpful.
And then just switching gears to the pressure pumping side you talked about still having the three fleets ideal and adding some fleets to the new customer in the Permian.
Just one other part of that how many spot fleets do you have out there presently then? Yes.
So in the Permian I mean the Permian fleets today are either contracted or they are working on an exclusive basis.
And I am sorry we may use terminology that is different than some other people.
When we talk about a contracted fleet it’s something that does have what is a minimum 12 month obligation.
When I talk about an exclusive fleet that means it’s not in the spot market it’s essentially committed to a customer working on that exclusive basis.
In the Permian we don’t have any of those fleets that are working in the day to day spot market.
They are either exclusive/committed fleets or contracted fleets.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And then I guess though just to close it out ex-Permian just across the U.S.
portfolio what do you consider spot or exclusive what’s that count? Yes I mean so eight contracted fleets about four fleets that would be kind of have spot market exposure I guess.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
All right guys thanks very much.
You bet.
And then Marshall Adkins please go ahead with your follow-up question.
Inc.</strong>  Sorry to keep bugging at the slow morning.
The proceeds from sales on this stuff what are you going to do with the cash? Well you know that the free cash that we produce in this company what we said about that to this point is that we wanted to use that free cash to fund share repurchases and dividend.
In other words get it back to shareholders.
I don’t know when Marshall the proceeds for many divestiture would come through and I think rather than commit to what the purpose would be I’d rather wait and see what the timing looks like.
I mean if it was a divestiture that was happening in this week I think what I’d be telling is it’s going to be money that we’re going to put towards share repurchase and dividend.
Inc.</strong>  That makes sense.
That was going to be my second question.
But any guess as the timing I mean are we talking end of 2014 middle of 2014 2015 when timing on getting all this stuff done any estimate? I can’t be specific about that not because I am avoiding your question but because I don’t know.
Our intention would be to carry this out during 2014 and obviously the sooner the better.
But there is a process that we’ll be going through that our public disclosure of intentions with the subsea construction business in Asia are being made known today.
So we’ll need a little bit of time to get those assets in market.
Inc.</strong>  Sure all right last one.
Obviously we were all excited to see the dividend and the share repurchase announcement seems a little light on the amount repurchased for the quarter anything particularly gets you more aggressive at repurchasing more? Yes so what I have consistently said about the share repurchases is that for now our tactics are to be in the market buying shares when there seems to be some disconnect in where our stock price is and where we believe it should be maybe it drops by.
For some unknown reason those market gremlins come into effect and if you are not buying it we will.
Inc.</strong>  Perfect.
And I don’t think that tactic is changed for us.
I’ll say this.
We have to adhere to certain rules in the repurchase so that limits are daily volume.
It also means that we’ve got to get out of the market when we’ve got information which the market doesn’t have.
And so clearly during the course of the quarter as you can realize from some of these announcements about ending of strategies and potential divestures we had some information you didn’t know about.
Inc.</strong>  Right but it certainly from my modeling I think we’re closely right you’re still going to have plenty of cash to do this and other things correct? Yes sure.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks Dave.
Thank you.
Your next is Jonathan Sisto with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentleman.
Good morning Jonathan.
David maybe you could bring us up to speed on the latest in Mexico what you’re kind of seeing and hearing down there in so much as the Mexican reform?  I don’t think that what we are seeing today are our thoughts on Mexico.
They’ve really changed very much recently Jonathan.
I mean we do not believe that although I’ll say we are encouraged as many in industry are about the recent legislative reform in Mexico and excited about the potential for new customers in entering into the Mexico market.
And I think 2014 is going to be the year where the rules for that participation by foreign operators are defined.
And based on the way those rules are written then we’ll begin to understand who the likely investors are.
So that been said we don’t think reform has anything positive to do with activity in 2014.
In fact my personal thought would be if anything is probably going to slow the Mexican government down and funding additional PMEX [ph] work in Mexico during 2014.
So 2014 doesn’t look real good and we’ll see how the wills get written and what I’ve always said about Mexico is that our excitement about the market potential there is going to depend very much on who the future customer is.
And just as a kind of follow-up you mentioned to one of Marshall’s earlier questions kind of 15% topline growth in the international market.
Have you been able to bring over more capacity into areas like Saudi to complement your snubbing units there? Yes so we have I guess three different service lines in total there in Saudi now snubbing as well as well control which was actually the first and then some pressure control services that are associated with the well control business.
We’ve not added to that at this point but there are some pretty active conversations going on within our ramp cut there about potential expansion with the new product launch.
Okay.
I would certainly hope that during 2014 an additional product line going to the country.
Okay.
And just as kind of a homework one here the stacked stimulation vessel is that just in for coast guard recertification and when does that come out? Yeah sorry it’s not stacked it’s been – we’re doing a rebuild on the stimulation plan.
So this is leased vessel they’re just pretty common in the Gulf of Mexico on stem boats.
And we’ve got a stimulation plant that’s built on to the deck of his vessel.
So we’re refurbishing blenders and pumps.
If I said stack that certainly didn’t mean that it’s not stacked it’s just in the shipyard going through that stimulation plant refurbishment during this quarter.
It’s in the quarter to do it because what happens in the first quarter with the weather issues that you have you wind up getting ready for a big completion job and then sitting at the dock wait for to load out while the weather is forced.
So we felt like this was a good period to get that work done.
Okay.
So that will also help with the inflection point into Q2? Exactly.
Okay.
That’s all from me thanks David.
Thank you.
Next is Jason Bandel with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just following up on that last question there actually we’ve heard some competitors here looking to move on assets international market.
Has it become anymore challenging to find opportunities to place equipments staying with your return benchmarks or is there enough opportunity to accommodate all these moves? I think there is still plenty opportunity.
I think you know one of the things that we have tried to do is to continue to exercise discipline as we move assets.
Out there somehow I’ll give you an example.
We’ve got today probably 20 coiled tubing units in the U.S.
that I’d be happy to send to international markets tomorrow.
If those international markets were in demand of 24 coiled tubing units tomorrow then somebody would already send them there.
And so what I don’t want to do is just pour assets into international markets because they happened to be underutilized in the US.
More of what I think about is I think about those 20 coiled tubing units sitting there and waiting for the right opportunity to develop internationally and then we deployed.
And that then becomes consistent with our thought about only deploying that equipment if we see then it’s a solid return opportunity for us.
Does that make sense?  It does yes.
And then turning to Brazil do you see any impacts from the contracts running up in Q4? Should we expect to see the full benefit from that early in 2014? What’s kind of your outlook for that market? For what we do in Brazil and the contracts that we have in Brazil we feel pretty good going forward in 2014.
And I know that there is other companies that have contracts which have a different level of exposure perhaps.
But we had two contracts that started up in the fourth quarter one in drilling products and services and one in production services.
The drilling products and services contract is up to full speed and that’s a four or five year contract.
The production services contract is related to stimulation.
There is actually room to expand on that contract and that we had three fleets that we are scaling up during the fourth quarter probably see a little bit better utilization during the first half of 2014 and there is room in the contract for two additional fleets that could come in at some point in the future.
So I look at what we have and see that there is probably more ability to scale up and then to scale down.
Okay that’s helpful.
And the last one from me any update on your automated service rig roll out and do you guys dedicate any growth CapEx in your 2014 budget for that?  Yes there are two or three more units that are planned during 2014.
We’ve got the two rigs now which have been in the market and seem to be working well with a great comment back from customers.
We’ve been trying to move them around a bit from one customer to the next to give operators a variety of operators the opportunity to experience this new technology.
We are excited about it.
We think it’s a really outstanding addition in technology to our service rig fleet.
But you know if ultimately this became 10 or 15 or 20 rigs that’s probably the limit on it.
It’s not like those are going to replace all 300 service rigs that we have out there but the uptake has been good and we do have some additional capital budget in 2014 devoted to continuation of the catch rig.
Okay thanks for the help.
I’ll turn it back.
Thank you.
And next is James Schumm with Cowen.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Hi Dave now we’ve been hearing some anecdotes in the pressure pumping market that maybe pricing is stabilized and utilization maybe improving.
I wanted to get you thoughts on the coiled tubing and service rig markets.
Have you seen any improvement recently in these markets? I would more describe coiled tubing as stabilizing and that’s not stabilizing at a very high point but I don’t think that we’ve seen any tremendous or a lot of downward pull from either a utilization or pricing standpoint of that business.
We’ve got some areas that we think can improve for us in the near-term but probably not as a result of pricing more as a result of utilization.
Service rig utilization has been good.
We didn’t see a lot of price movement in the service rig.
We saw more of a mixed change in service rigs as we went away from a majority of completion work to a majority of production work.
And I think what mostly likely to happen with service rigs is that we see a bit more of a mix on the completion side going forward that helps us in utilization.
And it also pulls through some other associated sales and help the margins in that business.
Okay and then just a point of clarification.
So in the Gulf of Mexico the specialized decommissioning market you’re going to remain involved there.
What percent of the work there is turnkey? Yes.
It’s been primarily a turnkey market in the recent years and I want to be clear about this.
What we said is that we will continue to have resources in the way of specialized personnel in this company that if there were an unconventional structural decommissioning job and when I say unconventional I mean big platforms and live well bores that are laying on the sea floor.
We will still have the expertise to respond to that type of opportunity.
Okay and that is – they’re pretty much all turnkey projects? Recently they have been.
I mean there was a point in time where there was a pretty strong mix of day rate versus turnkey work in that business and as part of what’s happening in the market was competition operators will prefer to do that on turnkey basis.
The challenge is that whenever you are dealing with the removal of an old asset misuse the plug and abandonment and all I mean it’s very difficult to predict the potential problems you may encounter.
And so it’s always a risk in a turnkey type of opportunity because there are other things that you didn’t expect to see and that result in higher cost.
Okay all right great.
Thanks guys.
Welcome.
(Operator Instructions) Next is Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks good morning gentleman.
Hi Stephen.
sorry I jumped on late.
You may have answered this but I’m going to ask you the assets which you are seeking strategic alternatives for and you talked about in the press release that you don’t see any impact on continuing income from operations.
Did you give the related size of those assets as far as revenue in 2013? I don’t think if we gave the relative size of the assets somebody did ask the question earlier about how much revenue and what we said is it is historically about 40% of the revenue in the subsea and technical services segment.
Okay.
And I would assume it’s a lower margin than the rest of subsea and technical services? Yes so what we said about margin Stephen is that these businesses have really not produced positive margin for us in recent years.
They remain relatively neutral.
And so what that means is that some quarters they make money and some quarters they lose money because they have been unpredictable and overall low margin.
Okay great.
And then as you look at and this is in part I know Marshall touched on this.
When you look at the dividend how you see going forward is there a yield you’re looking at or is it just a comfort level with a certain cash payout on an annual basis? This point is based on a certain cash payout.
And so what we felt comfortable with and what the board felt comfortable with when we initiated the dividend or announced the initiation of a dividend in December I think it is $38 million a year in cash that we distribute to shareholders.
Okay.
Clearly what our desire would be my desire would be is as time goes on that we increase that dividend.
I am sorry Robert told me it’s $50 million.
That would come anyway.
Our CFO is on the call he could be in handy.
So I think with what we see is the future in this company we feel very comfortable being able to fund that kind of dividend.
Clearly what we would like to do overtime as the company grows and our cash generation capacity increases is to increase the dividend but I don’t know that we necessarily target a yield with it.
Okay now that’s good color.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to management for closing comments.
Okay well thanks to everyone for joining us today and we’ll see on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to Superior Energy Services First Quarter Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions) This conference is being recorded today Friday April 25 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap our Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during today's call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
And in accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that now I’ll turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Thank you Greg and good morning to everyone.
We reported yesterday afternoon our quarterly revenue of $1.1 billion EBITDA of $254 million and net income from continuing operation of $42.6 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
Our results came in better than anticipated due to strong March.
Particularly for US land completion and production services as the inflection point we were anticipating began to materialize and stocks for our North American services grew March was the best month since August of last year.
Specifically we saw stronger activity for fluid management services driven by fluid heating activities pressure controlled services and well services rigs in the US.
During our last call I discussed a cost reduction and restructuring efforts in effort in several of our US businesses and the benefits of these efforts became apparent in our March results as we experienced very good incremental margins in our coiled tubing and fluid management businesses which will boast focal points for our cost improvement initiative.
The combination of realized cost savings and increased activity driven by additional horizontal drilling and completion activity has resulted in the positive path forward for our US business that we expected to see and it's consistent with what we expressed during our last conference call.
Our US land revenue increased 1% over the fourth quarter 2013 and marked the first quarterly increase in US land revenue since Q1 of 2013.
Onshore completion and workover services segment revenue which is derived entirely from the US land market increased 4% marking the largest quarterly increase since the second quarter of 2012.
The improvement was also better than the 2% increase in the average number of rigs drilling in the US from the fourth quarter 2013.
Our Gulf of Mexico performance was also consistent with what we believed we would experience during the quarter.
Overall revenue was down about 3% due to seasonal factors that impact our shelf activity during Q1 every year.
However Gulf revenue from our drilling products and services segment where we have deepwater exposure increased 11%.
International revenue was 8% lower than fourth quarter primarily driven by lower revenue in drilling products and services.
Lost in wholesales were lower in the first quarter but we also had several projects and rig that were in transition during the course of the quarter and expect to return to higher revenue levels internationally during the second quarter.
Overall our international expansion continues to be on track.
We are finding opportunities to transfer underutilized coiled tubing units from the US to new markets and are encouraged by startup opportunities that we were vetting in the Middle East and in Asia.
Our new contracts in Brazil are progressing as planned and Argentina continues to be a bright spot from an activity standpoint.
I think our first quarter results had a solid foundation for us to achieve the second quarter growth that we outlined for you on our last earnings call.
As you may recall that growth assumed an inflection point at March and April in the US land business complimented by additional contributions from new international project and a ramp up in a Gulf of Mexico activity.
With free cash flow is a primary focal point for our management team.
We continue to return cash to shareholder.
During the first quarter we paid our first quarterly dividend and we repurchased $82 million of our common stock.
Later Robert will discuss an accelerated share repurchase plan that we put in place during early March which accounted for a significant portion of our first quarter repurchases.
Also after Robert walks you through some of the financial details of the quarter.
I will reaffirm how we see the second quarter shaping up.
With that I will now turn the call over to Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment.
I'll make some comparisons to the fourth quarter 2013 adjusted operating income which excludes the specific parts of quarterly segments in the fourth quarter.
In addition we move the subsea construction and conventional and decommissioning businesses to discontinued operations for all period.
Those businesses were in the segment formerly known as subsea and technical solutions which we now call the Technical Solutions Segment.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $220 million and income from operations was $67 million which represents a 2% sequential decrease in revenue and 5% decrease in operating income.
Gulf of Mexico revenue from this segment was a record $101 million as we continue to benefit from rentals of premium drilled pipe and other specialty downhole tool.
This was offset by 21% decline in international revenue to $52 as previously described by Dave.
Year-over-year international revenue in this segment increased 3%.
US land revenue was flat at $67 million with lower rentals of premium pipe drill pipe offset by an increase in accommodations and bottom hole assembly.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was up 4% and $390 million and income from operations was 56% lower to $6 million.
There were three factors impacting the operating margin.
First; extreme weather in the Bakken resulted in lower revenue and higher cost and pressure pumping.
Second; as we noted on the last call.
We incurred some cost of inefficiencies and activating pressure pumping fleet in the Permian.
And third; depreciation increased 5% over the fourth quarter.
We accelerated depreciation on pressure pumping equipment as we sent $12 million to refurbish some of the fleets.
It's worth noting that was the first quarterly increase in revenue since the first quarter of 2013.
Fluid management led the way of revenue increasing almost 15% due to additional seeding revenue in the Rocky's and higher utilization of the water whaling fleets.
Production and services segment revenue was down 8% to $321 million while operating income decreased by 18%.
Despite the decline in operating income this segment is benefitting from lower costs due to some parts of the cost cutting and restructuring.
The biggest change came in coiled tubing where our operating margin improved significantly even though revenue was virtually unchanged.
US land revenue decreased 6% to $202 million primarily due to the decreases in remedial pumping.
International revenue was 3% lower at $84 million due to the decreases snubbing activity partially offset by an increase in remedial pumping as we started a project in Brazil.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 28% to $35 million due to seasonal declines in well maintenance work and the shallow water market.
Depreciation this segment was lower due in part of assets [indiscernible].
In the technical solution segment revenue was $130 million which represents a 1% increase in the fourth quarter.
Income from operations of $14 million was 13% higher.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was down 5% to $75 million primarily due to a decrease in the well control work partially offset by an increase in completion tools and products.
International revenue was 3% higher to $33 million due to an increase in the number of well control projects completed during the quarter.
US land revenue increased 28% to $22 million primarily related to sales of completion tool.
Turning to the balance sheet at the end of the first quarter our debt was $1.7 billion.
Debt to EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5 times invested total capital was 29%.
For the quarter the company generated over $48 million of free cash flow.
From a share repurchase standpoint we have repurchased and retired 2.8 million shares year-to-date for a total consideration of $82.3 million or an average price of $29.12.
About 2.2 million of those shares were retired in the first quarter through a combination of open market purchases in January and an accelerated share repurchase program initiated in early March.
The remaining 633 000 shares purchased through the accelerated share repurchase program were delivered on April 17.
We have about $307 million left on our $400 million buyback authorization.
For the second quarter we think the weighted average share count to be approximately 159.2 million shares and this incorporates our share repurchases debt.
Capital addition during the first quarter were $154 million.
From modeling perspective in the second quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $154 million to $157 million.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $160 million to $162 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Okay thank you.
Robert.
The first quarter unfolded in a way that we believe makes the second quarter scenario we described in our last earnings call achievable.
We said that the second quarter is where you witness earnings inflection.
And we think that our Q2 earnings will be similar to the second quarter earnings of 2013 albeit with a slightly different make up.
We anticipate North American margins will be lower than the second quarter of last year but will be offset by contributions from international services and drilling products and services.
Given how we finish March we believe our North American margin should be closer to third quarter 2013 levels.
In addition we are experiencing records levels of activity in the Gulf of Mexico for our drilling products and services and our international services project are proceeding as scheduled.
Beyond the second quarter we will have continued operating leverage in the US as we saw the horizontal rig count continue to expand.
We still have underutilized capacity in the US including three idle frac fleet.
We think utilization must increase before we see meaningful price increases but we believe utilization will trend higher as the year progresses driven by continued increase in horizontal drilling and completion activity.
At this point we still believe that this year is about working through over capacity and increasing utilization.
Higher utilization along with the continued focus on optimizing our cost structure should drive improved margin as the year progresses.
On a separate note several weeks ago.
We lost our friend and long time Director Wyn Howard who passed away after recent [indiscernible].
Wyn was a tremendous contributor to our Board and particularly helpful to me during my transition to Superior several years ago.
Well I'll miss Wyn's astute industry knowledge his appreciation and understanding a corporate government and his impeccable southern charm.
That concludes our prepared remarks I think we will now open the line for questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of David Anderson with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
And David Anderson your line is open.
Please check your mute button.
Our next question comes from the line Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hi Blake.
I'm glad somebody's there.
Well I'm glad to be that somebody I guess.
Couple of quick questions good guidance here.
As we kind of a check on some of these other the other moving pieces of the business.
You noted that the large moving DPS for the quarter internationally was really kind of rig transition and it's a big number is that really fully explain it and then as we get into your 2Q guidance.
When you talk about new international projects is that primarily DPS driven and should we kind of fully recover what we lost and maybe even gain some in the DPS internationally as we go look into 2Q? I mean certainly we expect the second quarter international levels to be higher as occasionally what happens when you get into one of these stages where you got either contract happen to end or rig that are moving and you're not able to get their rate on rentals on those rigs what we see there is primarily transit for but I certainly I don't know if we will capture 100% of the fact during the second quarter but we will make pretty good progress on that as we get projects with still afraid we're still back to quarter.
So I don't know if I perfectly answered your question.
It will be up in the second quarter I don't know if you gain back 100%.
Okay no that's exactly it.
It's been such a stall work growth wise it just kind of stuck out a bit so just wanted a get a little color there.
Just to clarify I mean we certainly don't think we are reaching a leveling out of international growth or rental.
I mean it's still a significant part of our overall growth CapEx in 2014 and I certainly expect overtime that we will see continued growth to that.
Great and then what really sticks out I mean you didn't have just massive cost cutting program but the improvements in productions services margins despite the another pretty shot down turn and revenue really sticks out and there is some of those efforts extended to fluids management.
I guess the first question around that would be is there anything as we go into this North American recovery that is really kind of out of bed versus the averages and if not it seems like your guidance towards 3Q margins for these North American based businesses maybe even like a bit conservative in a given the status that they're in on the cost side? I mean I don’t think that they're particularly conservative.
I mean the part of which you got to recognized here is that what we are seeing from the second quarter to the first quarter is largely in absence of the bad result that we all had in January due to weather and so we got -- I think pretty good visibility at this point on what the quarter should look like and I think you also have to keep in mind that as we see additional horizontal activity particularly in the Permian Basin be cautious there's some of the supply chain issues that you get when a market is scaling up like that.
I don't think that caused us to have particular conservative thoughts about what those margins should be in the second quarter perhaps it suffered a bit.
Great and then I'm going to get one more in here just because 10 is maybe limited just as we think about new technical services division.
Do you care to offer just kind of any broad insights in terms of renew the extreme seasonality will businesses what we should expect in terms of seasonality now that those are kicked out and maybe even it's very wide goalpost maybe what your gross or operating margin expectations longer term for that business.
Just as we start out modeling that up in a more singularly.
It should be a little bit easier for you to model going – we think because the businesses that are now in discontinued odds will probably; amongst the lumpiest businesses that were in that group and of course the lower margins businesses that we are in that group.
There is still seasonality here and that's not just in that segment.
It's also in our production services segment to a lesser extent drilling products and services and that's driven by the Gulf of Mexico shelf and that's not going to go away for us.
We will always have that seasonality in the first quarter that being said it's a lot smaller overall portion of our portfolio and so you won't see the same kind demonstrative changes seasonally in the first quarter we've had are occasional that figure.
I also would say this I mean the overall operating margin in that segment does have opportunities to improve as time goes on through the completion services business as it continues to expand internationally and also with our pressure pumping.
But then what we saw maybe at our first quarter here in terms of operating margin is good place to start for modeling purpose going forward.
It's pretty representative of what you would expect in that business at this point in time.
Great appreciate your time guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Maybe if we could start off I'm sure you saw this question coming but with the three idle frac fleets.
Are you starting to have some conversations about maybe putting them back to work because the market looked like it started to pick up enough where that's a realistic expectation over the next couple of quarter? We have kind of continual conversations about putting additional equipment to work.
I don't know think much is changed since we recorded our fourth quarter earnings two months ago that would cause me to say that I would expect any additional idle capacity go to work in the first half of the year.
I [will] show you the one fleet in the Permian Basin that we talked about the last call but the remaining fleets I don't believe there'll be an opportunity for those to work before the end of the second quarter.
As we get on to the second half of the year maybe our thoughts to get more optimistic about another fleet activating but I personally think that opportunity is probably better more towards the end of the year.
Okay and then maybe a big picture question.
When you look at where the recount is today versus the prior peak given the uplift in service intent to the broadly speaking? Is it safe to assume in your opinion Dave that we don't have to really need to get back to that kind of peak run rate but the rig count to observe what the excess capacity is out there in the US land market? I mean if more service intensive then it was in the prior peak.
So I mean I don't it takes the rig down to get to the peak [indiscernible].
All right fair enough.
Thanks Dave.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
One of the points that are being made in the fracturing businesses.
The difference between the brain and brawn and that the big guys have the technology and the little guys don't and as well as get more complex got to go to their disadvantage.
Where do you find yourself where do you put yourself on that gage and what are the benefits and drawbacks? So I think what we have witnessed in the North American fracturing business with the horizontal well work and longer laterals and more stages per well is that.
I think the technology by in large is been being [indiscernible] and instead what is emphasized is what I'll refer to as operational technology and so that's the ability to execute in a very efficient way on location and I think in the last year.
So you've heard some of the larger fracturing guys talk exactly about transforming their business to be one that is better equipped for fracturing in the future to deliver that kind of efficiency and Listen Jim here I'm an engineer.
I'm an technology guys the fact to the matter is what we seeing horizontal drilling really is not it doesn't have the same type of technical requirement from a chemistry standpoint from a fluid standpoint as what we had in the past refer to lower fractures.
Okay.
I appreciate that and can you talk a little bit and I missed it I apologize.
But in Brazil to venture a lot onshore but not all on onshore.
Are you insulated are you seeing the impact of all the things that are going on there and with the Word Cup coming up has anything changed slightly catch us up on Brazil.
We aren't seeing any changes in Brazil from what we expected during the first quarter.
I don't know listen as the World Cup goes on there may be few weeks in there we will review that from lower business [effort].
I've heard anecdotal things about travel restrictions and with big trucks in certain places but we are not anticipating any significant changes on our business hopefully.
Okay thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Co.
please go ahead.
In your comment about Q2 resembling Q2 last year.
Are you guys adjusting for the contribution except the construction has I'm assuming within losing money in last year? The answer to your question yes.
Second quarter typically would not be one we would see the same kind of losses that you would be seeing in that discontinued offline during the first quarter.
Remember that those businesses are very subject to seasonal things during the first quarter as we pointed out over the years.
Quarter is usually one lowest to recovery to profitability there.
That all being said I mean what we told you guys about those businesses on the last call as they have been about breakeven business for us.
So I mean in essence what that implies down they're going to lose money in the first quarter and make small amounts of money at the third fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
When you consider the weather impacts in Q1? We'll see [exit] rate in March everyone is talking about how strong March is.
Is it reasonable to assume within your US land businesses double-digit top line growth and into Q2.
That's probably bit too high.
I mean we think about it something more in line with 5%.
One thing I'll say about this I mean March was clearly the best month of the quarter everybody has witnessed that and February gets a bit mad because when you look at your February results.
You got to remember there is only 28 days in February versus the 31 you had in March but I mean on a daily basis from a revenue standpoint.
Our February was fairly what we would have anticipated growth.
Really a January problem.
Okay.
Two quick ones.
If you can just remind me what the CapEx expectations are for this year and the breakdown between growth versus maintenance? It's in total around $650 million is the range on capital spend growth CapEx.
Yes half growth half maintenance.
Very similar what we had last year in it.
And then when would the growth CapEx again is that front back half.
I'm sure guess this is for modeling how we should pull that in.
It is pretty well evenly distributed during the course of the year.
Okay and then the last one for me pressure pumping from prior question.
Do you think Dave that you will see or need to see the industry pricing prior before attempt to reactive the frac fleet? No not necessarily.
I mean we activated a fleet here within the last four months and we didn't see pricing being the motivator for that.
Plus for us it is now and always has been about finding the right kind of customers that we believe is going to be able to drive high number of stages which caused us to have the best opportunity ultimately and make the best margin with our equipment.
It's not predicated on price.
And it's safe to assume you're not adding new frac horsepower this year? Well we have about $40 million in total capital going into the fracturing business.
All of it is related to refurbishment.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Bandel with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Starting with production services you commented in your prepared remarks that revenue for play was flat eventually it was margin confirming significantly.
Was that all cost saving driven or did you see any kind of improvement in utilization? It was mostly cost saving.
I mean I think in certain areas we did I mean Permian Basin would be one without little bit better utilization in Permian Basin and maybe slightly better utilization in South Texas but overall we think that margins were driven by the cost as we put it forth.
Okay and it sounds like from your pressure pumping commentary that your horizontal activity took up on that market place.
Any kind historically coiled tubing pretty closely correlated with that.
When will we see that market start turn for coiled? Well I mean I think as with the additional horizontal drilling rigs.
You're going to see incremental utilization opportunities in the coiled tubing business.
I think what we consistently said about this return to peak utilization levels at coiled tubing which were last experience about the first quarter of 2012 I guess.
We really need the two more high pressured gas in a horizontal oil application most of the time the operator has a choice between the coiled unit or a service rig when he's throwing out plus washing out problem in the high pressured gas well coiled tubing is really the only option.
Does that answer your question? It does yes and this is the last one from me in terms of your rentals business in [DTS].
I'm wondering your small peers talked about issuing a new price book what is pricing looking like in that business right now? The pricing grew we really have been seeing a lot of changes in prices from the businesses we're going through the last few years.
Typically our price changes in the oil businesses varies as we speak differences in fuel prices.
We don't know I don't think we have an initiative in place to put out a new price.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Dave what drive the next leg of growth in the international production services business.
I mean there's a couple things.
There are one as we've talked we do have an active -- a real desire to move some of the underutilized coiled tubing units internationally that goes into production surfaces and so that will help the – grow the revenue I guess in that business.
We've got other initiatives from a capital standpoint.
I mean we've got some new equipment that's seen built during the course of this year part of our growth capital and most of that is what drilling products and services and production services and that move will be the largest recipient for that so.
Its organic growth; I mean this is I think I kind of consistently describe what we do in the international.
It's three yards on a cloud of dust.
So don't look for big moves in the international business for one quarter to the next but these are all those practical things that you do as you're out market place just looking for new opportunities and production services and drilling parts and services are the two segments really will be benefit long term success.
You noted that the movement of coiled tubing can you quantify that you guys what's at this point on deck in terms of ship being shifted out of the US market? We've got about 20 coiled tubing units that we have pulled out of the US fleet and identified as units that we would really like to get placed in international market but I want to caution you on that.
I mean is not that something that happens and a single period.
We will probably spend two years maybe three years moving those coiled tubing units in there and at to the market.
If you think about 20 and Oh! Well and say maybe we get five of them moved out during the course of this year that'd be a really good outcome and maybe three if you get moved during the course of this year but there will be some movement.
The reason why it takes a while we are not just sending these out to in international market because they're available and we want to make sure that we go in and develop the right kind of opportunities when the units are delivered they become profitable for us right away.
Does that make sense? Yes it does and then just been the tie back in the first part of the question asked the cloud and dust analogy.
Production services on the international side should brand it ways towards that target sort of mid-teens year-over-year top line growth trajectory.
Yes I think that's right.
Okay and then I guess the last another one for me just.
Do you guys mentioned the accelerated share repurchase that's not an ongoing program and that's something you all put in for a brief year time but is there anything in place as we sit here today or how do we think about your attention to moving forward here? Well I think so we initiated the accelerated repurchase shortly after our fourth quarter earnings call.
It's when Robert mentioned it it was early March.
It expired on April 17 and I think our overall during that accelerated share repurchase – well for the quarter I've prices like $29.12.
Yes $29.12.
That's clearly that was a good move for us.
What we should about share repurchase in the past is we are going to take advantage of those situation where we see and disconnect in our stock price and what we believe the market looks like and really to get this done.
I'm not answering your question because what we said about share repurchases is it we will always say you on our quarterly call.
What we had done in the prior period but prefer not to talk about tactics for this quarter or going forward.
Fair enough.
I appreciate the answer thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Anderson with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Sorry about that before Dave.
Question on your offshore rental market I was specifically wondering what kind of drilled pipe market.
Just trying to wonder if you could give us a sense to how much of your business here is RSP driven.
You probably know where I'm going with this I wonder if you can speak about kind of any changes you're seeing up here on the demand side of that business and how concerned you're about that and whether or not you're being just kind of bit of pause or you expect that to pick up again.
Just to clarify are you speaking just the Gulf of Mexico or global? I was kind of speaking global but I was going to ask a follow-up question on the Gulf.
So maybe you could talk about global and we continue the Gulf state of mind.
Yes sure.
So I mean our business mix internationally for drilling products and services is largely offshore and it's not exclusively but it's largely offshore.
Outside of Brazil thought I'd say the bulk of it is with RSP RSP is in West Africa North Sea Asia and Middle East and then we do what prior season Brazil well the market there is likely central [province].
Gulf of Mexico we've got rental assets on virtually everyone of the deepwater rigs it's working.
So we can go look at the operator and it's for deepwater it's huge work RSP's.
Certainly but there is been big indefinite people like Anadarko and itself are important part that makes it well.
Obviously we've been hearing a lot of chatter about budgets and what not and I'm just kind of wondering are you seeing kind of which I guess kind of what can you give us a sense which direction that business is going.
Are you seeing kind of cuts coming through or is it sort of business is usual for you right now? It's business as usual.
I mean I know there were some industry players that had very ambitious expectations for deepwater market growth in the Gulf of Mexico during 2014.
I don't know that our expectations were as ambitious as others.
We believe that during the course of the year.
We'll see a slight uptick and when I say slight I'm talking about a couple of rig during the course of the year and still believe that there are some changes.
I mean you got some old generation rigs that are going out and new generations rigs are coming in.
We are in different generation rig.
Obviously drilling contractor you're in a different position.
As long as you're drilling your business is there.
Yes.
Specifically on the Gulf it's like 20% of your business now.
How do you see this kind of progressing say the next 20 months 12 months.
I know you're putting simulation wrestle in the market but I was kind of curious we've been hearing some mixed reports as to generally we've been hearing things starting to maybe a little bit better in the Gulf than the market may be might have thought can you talk about the Gulf itself and how you see that outlook and how your business be active.
It's always hard for me to keep up whether the markets believe about Gulf of Mexico.
I don't know [indiscernible] we see it's like uptick and overall growing rigs in the deepwater.
I don't expect much of change on the shelf.
I mean we've had a big turnover of properties in the shelf and continued turnover with Energy XXI acquisition of EPL but I'm not as optimistic about growth and shelf growing rigs during the course of this year that's probably more for 2015 to 2016 at least now.
So I think flat shelf and it's like a slight increase in deepwater rig.
When we offered guidance we said we believe their overall Gulf of Mexico would be up something in the range of high single-digits during the course of the year.
Okay and that's great.
Thanks a lot guys.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of [Terry Louise] with Raymond James.
Can you hear me? Yes.
I know you love all your children Dave but what business segments are you most excited about and I want to ask it from two perspectives.
One; what is the where do you see the most improvements in terms of magnitude versus what you think this is most surprising? I mean the best opportunity and you're right [Marshall] I do love all my children.
The best opportunity for improvements is going to be in the completion.
Onshore completion in the production services segment.
I mean they've been down as a result of this activity the limit we've had in the US over the past six quarters or so and those two offered best opportunity for us.
And we've got really high quality businesses high quality management teams there.
I feel very confident as we see market improvement they are going to drive higher levels of revenue and higher margin.
So I mean both those segments really offer the best opportunity for us.
I think for the next couple of years that being said.
How you can you not love drilling products and services.
It's certainly been the sources of our growth CapEx over the past few years.
You probably heard this story before we don't take our last capital dollar and put it into that business.
We take our first and our second and our third capital dollar and put it in a business because we've had such a tremendous success rate.
Once again with the managers in those business and being really effective and deploying it down high margin high returns.
So what should surprise you the most in terms of improvements over the past and offer your four months five months? Well I've been very pleased with the improvements we made from a cost standpoint and it was largely in the completion in the production services segment.
So we turned to those guys about September 2013 and said okay we've had margin compression as a result of little bit price pressure and continue labor inflation.
We really need to look hard at how we can restructure and order to capture some of the margin back and those guys did a fabulous job of finding very creative ways for us to get more cost effective and they delivered that cost improvement faster than we thought they would.
I mean I really didn't think that we would see much impact to that during the first quarter they're the reason why we delivered a good number today.
All right.
Last question from me.
What condition is you know you've got three stacked fleets.
What condition would you describe those is being is there you know you need to do to get them up and running or are they good to go right now? They're good to go now.
We have to hire labor we just went through this exercise with a fleet that reactivated and if we were activating one of the three idle fleet.
We would probably need somewhere on the order of four weeks to six weeks to get it fully stacked.
Perfect.
Thanks Dave.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
I apologize if I miss this commentary but I want to just ask you when you at the different and I guess I'm thinking particularly on the onshore site.
How would you think about your incremental margin performance and is it you're given that you guys again done a good job kind of keeping cost pretty low during that softer periods? Could we see some sharper incremental near term because of the leaner cost structure? How should we think about that? If we had not witnessed so much of the cost savings in the first quarter.
I'd say answer to that maybe yes you probably would see higher than it's higher than normal incremental from this point but at least we've really seen the main body of those cost reduction in our Q1 result what I would expect to see is the revenue expense and completion in production services that we have somewhere in 30% 35% incremental margin.
Which on a service business that without any price changes that's we've got to expect.
Okay that's fair.
I'm not sure have you -- any thought on pricing in general in North America and when you may start to see gain a little momentum.
I'm all in favor of price increases.
I really don't expect that we will see movement in price in any of the phases until later in the year.
You have to think about the way this happen Stephen.
Is this we've got one basin which is really expanding that's the Permian and that's probably the place that people will begin to experience price improvements at first but also keep in mind that we have many other basins out there and clean place like Bakken South Texas and of course the Marcellus.
When we continue to be in relatively flat markets and flat markets we know are not the places where you would see prices in fact you continue to see price competition so when you look at our overall blended basis.
It is probably not in the very near term that in total of those businesses would experience price improvement.
We need a few more horizontal rigs to go.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Schumm with Cowen &amp; Co.
please go ahead.
Most of my questions have been answered already but Dave I would like to get your thoughts on just some of your competitors been announcing capacity additions in frac and I just wanted to get your thoughts on that? Are you surprised by these additions that people are announcing? I don't understand everybody's interworking to their fracturing business.
I understand mine and what I know about what we've done is we have consistently over the past few years put maintenance capital dollars into our fleet that we are constantly rebuilding equipment.
If we had not done that I have a bit of dilemma.
I'd either have to really ramp up maintenance capital assuming which means I got to build something that got to work well I'm doing that rebuild.
You see what I'm saying and so everybody I'm sure is in a little bit different situation here.
Clearly people want to have their fleet in good working conditions markets improved and I think everybody's believing that markets continue to improve this year and maybe in the next year as well.
One day we will – to ask work again.
If you're off that belief and your fleets are in need of refurbishment then you probably do need to go put some orders out there and get some equipment in so you've got something to work while you're rebuilding what's after now.
Right? Okay.
All right.
That's it from me.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
I guess where I wanted to go because it just wasn't completely clear.
When we had the investor day last year you know there was a definitive emphasis on international growth and it definitely seems like the North American environment seems to be getting better.
Maybe the emphasis is shifting here and maybe that's also a function of what's happening in the offshore market.
How do we really think about kind of what the international growth targets are? Maybe your visibility into how that's happening given the fact that offshore is obviously going to slowdown this year that maybe carries in it next year a little bit versus where we are expecting growth maybe in North America? First off we'll disagree on offshore pulling down during the course of this year but I don't think that is the question.
Our emphasis on growth is really notching.
It still is focused on international I think Darren the fact that we have finally begun to see the increase in horizontal rigs that we needed to see in order to drive better business performance in the US that certainly is capturing a lot of [FI] prices but for us the emphasis is notching.
Our primary growth initiatives and our growth capital are primarily directed to the international market that was the case when we had our investor day last year.
That's the case today it will be the case at the end of this year and probably next year as well.
I mean for our company it represents international represents.
The best long-term growth opportunity for us.
It is our central and core strategy within the company and it will be for a long time.
Got you.
I mean Dave you've kind of narrowed it in one business let's say like with pipe rental.
When you look kind of visibility for demand how far and advance are you taking orders for premium pipe rentals and what's the visibility there as you think about that especially with pertaining to kind of offshore international this point of game.
Just to get a sense of what your visibility is? I mean visibility changes from -- it's different from one market to the next.
I mean a lot of these international markets are contract limit and so when you're in it when you're in a position where you've got where your business is covered by contracted you've got very very solid visibility especially in the rental business where you're not so subject to activity disruptive I guess as you would be in the services business.
Visibility is very good where you have contract.
It's typically not as good where you don't have contract.
Overall I would say we are bit more ready to contract internationally and that's not unique to us that's just the international business.
So did that give you kind of lead time six months to nine months out.
I'm just trying to get a sense of kind of how the business is going to lined itself up to have a look? Six months to nine months is fairly certain visibility on the international.
Got it.
If I could sneak one more in on the onshore completion side.
You've mentioned in the written release food management was a pretty good contributor.
What's the outlook there is that something that the heating related food management? Is that something that kind of goes away kind of in a counter seasonal sort of way and how do we think of that form like an order of magnitude when not only think about modeling that segment? Overall what we expect in that business is relatively flat performance from Q1 to Q2.
So you're losing some healing revenue which is seasonal and which we are seeing in Q4 and Q1 but we are gaining as we speak additional horizontal rigs that have gone in the market and they're trying their best driving a bit higher demand and hauling in a frac mix and so you think about it flat from Q1 to Q2 that's kind of how we are thinking.
Great well thanks for the color.
I appreciate it.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] with RBC.
Please go ahead.
It's Kurt here.
I was on mute as well apologize for that.
Dave I was wondering you look at the – I was able to hop on very late on this call.
Okay so I apologize if I'm going to miss something you said a little bit earlier.
Okay.
How do you see things shaking out here in North American and maybe specifically to coiled tubing seems like that's going to be a pretty challenged market given the fact that natural gas is not coming back around at those capacity and how much of a drag do you think that could be for the year? I don't see it as a drag.
I mean coiled tubing probably doesn't have the same opportunity that the business doesn't have the same opportunity to increase with horizontal rig count is fracturing or the fluid management business but nonetheless it benefits probably more horizontal rigs got to work there will be higher coiled tubing.
We are deliberately taking some of our capacity out of the US attempting to place it internationally so that's some of self-help that we are able to do in that business.
Perhaps others don't have available.
I think all of the US businesses it's the one that improves the least during the course of 2014 but nonetheless it's improving.
Did I answer your question? Yes that's helpful.
I do appreciate that.
I always like to ask a question guys like yourself have been in this business through many many cycles.
Clearly we are on the verge of something fairly early stage here in North American land.
I mean what's your sense on the sustainability of this move and how much pricing power do you think this industry could get as we move forward? You don't have to give me specifics I'm just trying to get be at your sense and how optimistic you are? I'm relatively bullish I guess on what you think about is kind of long-term market opportunity for North America which is been driven by oil.
We see 2014 is been driven by oil 2015 may continue to be driven by oil and I think most would believe there is some point in time we will begin to see some incremental activity from gas which we know is going to be activity in the gas shale's.
Once again driven horizontal high-service intensity.
As I think about the next kind of three years four years five years.
I feel pretty good about where we are I think you're right we seem to be at a relatively early point in this cycle.
With the volume of rigs that are working today I think we'll see these incremental activity increases but they're incremental.
And so maybe what we've got for free at the time it's kind of well behaved market kind of hate to say that not been our history in oil field services to see that but that seems to be a position we are in today.
To take that thought so what about pricing? What needs to happen in order for pricing to begin the move.
We've got to see more of the capacity that is underutilized in US got to work and I think happens as we had horizontal rigs.
I don't believe that there are enough horizontal rig additions to see that overall pricing opportunity and so maybe very end of this year or into 2015 but clearly that opportunity is out there on horizon at some point.
Cool that's great Dave.
Appreciate that color.
Thank you.
I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
I don't think we have any other remarks.
Other than to say thanks for joining us and we will talk to you again next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude our conference here today.
If you would listen to replay of today's call.
Please dial 303-590-3030 with access code 4678489.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Greg Rosenstein.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
And joining me today are Superior's President and CEO David Dunlap; and Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Good morning.
Yesterday after the close of market we reported quarterly revenue of $1.1 billion EBITDA of $310 million and net income from continuing operations of $79.1 million or $0.50 per diluted share.
Our results were better than we anticipated primarily due to higher margins in the U.S.
land market from the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment and the Production Services segment much of which were driven by a combination of better utilization improved cost efficiencies and moderate price improvement.
Robert will discuss some of the efficiency improvements shortly.
From a revenue perspective our U.S.
land revenue increased 6%.
We experienced sequential revenue increases of 5% to 8% in each of the following U.S.
land service lines: hydraulic fracturing well service rigs coiled tubing and cased hole wireline.
As we expected the increase in horizontal rig count that we have witnessed in the first half of 2014 has resulted in an uplift in utilization for all of our product lines involved in the completion supply chain.
We also had a 21% increase in U.S.
land revenue from the Drilling Products and Services segment as rentals of premium drill pipe and bottom hole assemblies increased in several basins.
High incremental margins also reflect a full quarter of cost reduction and restructuring efforts that took place in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014 Our Gulf of Mexico performance was flat relative to Q1 of 2014.
Seasonal increases in service work were more than offset by a 9% decline in Drilling Products and Services as product mix in the second quarter was more oriented to drilling-related rentals and completions.
We anticipate a more balanced product mix returning during the third quarter.
International revenue was 3% higher than Q1 with the largest increase coming from the Production Services segment.
We saw increases in snubbing in Africa and Australia and well testing and wireline increasing in Argentina.
I think our second quarter results provide a solid base from which to expand during the second half of the year.
I will discuss this further after Robert walks you through some of the financial data.
With that I'll turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Robert Taylor.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the first quarter of 2014.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue was $226 million and income from operations was $67 million which represents a 3% sequential increase in revenue and no change in operating income.
U.S.
land revenue increased 21% to $81 million.
We experienced high levels of downhole tool rentals including premium drill pipes and bottomhole assemblies.
International revenue increased slightly to about $52 million primarily due to increased rentals of premium drill pipes in the North Sea.
Gulf of Mexico revenue from this segment was $93 million which was 9% lower than the first quarter.
As Dave mentioned we had some high-margin deepwater completion work that did not repeat in the second quarter.
This along with changes in business mix were the primary causes for the flat operating margin in this segment despite the 3% increase in revenue.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was up 2% at $398 million and income from operations was significantly higher in Q1 to $32 million.
The operating margin significantly improved for 4 reasons.
First cost efficiencies associated with activating a pressure pumping fleet during Q1 improved in the second quarter.
Second fuel costs as a percentage of pressure pumping revenue were lower in the second quarter due to warmer weather.
As you may recall last quarter we had excessive fuel costs due to extremely cold weather.
Third we had a $3.8 million gain on sales for snubbing equipment which served to lower G&amp;A.
Fourth we did see higher utilization for pressure pumping and well service rigs.
Production Services segment revenue increased 7% to $344 million while operating income increased to $27 million.
This segment is benefiting from lower costs due in part to the cost cutting and restructuring that took place in Q4 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.
We also experienced higher coiled tubing revenue in areas such as the Marcellus and Mid-Cont region as well as increased pressure control activity in U.S.
land markets and higher wireline activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
As a result U.S.
land revenue in this segment increased 6% to $215 million while the Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 11% to $38 million and international revenue was up 8% to $91 million primarily due to increases in hydraulic workover and snubbing services.
Technical -- in the Technical Solutions segment revenue was $140 million which represents a 7% increase from the first quarter.
Income from operations of $23 million was 72% higher than Q1.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 70% -- 7% to $81 million primarily due to seasonal increases in plug and abandonment and completion tools and services.
U.S.
land revenue increased 24% to $27 million primarily related to sales of completion tools and well control services.
International revenue was 4% lower at $32 million due to a decrease in the number of well control projects completed during the quarter partially offset by an increase in sales of completion tools in Indonesia.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the second quarter our debt was just under $1.7 billion.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.5x and debt-to-total capital was 28.5%.
For the quarter the company generated over $83 million of free cash flow.
In the second quarter we spent $34.3 million on share repurchases.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 5.2 million shares for a total consideration of $164.1 million for an average price of $31.41 per share.
For the third quarter we think the weighted average share count should be approximately 158.7 million shares.
This incorporates our share repurchases to date.
Capital additions during the second quarter were about $138 million.
We still anticipate capital spending for the year to be in a range of $600 million to $650 million.
From a modeling perspective in the third quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $154 million to $157 million.
In the second quarter our G&amp;A was below prior guidance as a result of approximately $6.8 million of net positive adjustments that we do not expect to repeat.
This resulted in a positive impact to earnings per share in the second quarter of approximately $0.03.
With respect to the DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $167 million to $170 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in a range of $24 million to $26 million.
I'll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
We anticipated an inflection point in our U.S.
land activity during the second quarter and that is certainly what we realized.
Many of the horizontal rigs which have entered the market since the start of this year are still on the up slope of the efficiency curve.
And if no other rigs were added to the market I think that we would continue to see utilization increases during the second half of the year.
That being said we do expect additional rigs to enter the market during Q3.
So the combination of increased efficiency as well as higher activity will continue to drive revenue increases in our completions-related businesses.
Tightness in the market particularly in the Permian Basin is resulting in moderate price improvement opportunities and we experienced price improvement in fracturing during the second quarter.
Increases in rig count stage count and profit volumes per well are putting strain on the profit supply chain.
As we gain certainty that incremental sand volumes will be available to our business we will activate idle frac capacity and I am confident that we will activate one additional frac fleet before the end of this year.
Outside of the U.S.
land business our Gulf of Mexico business is progressing as planned and we still anticipate high-single-digit year-over-year growth in the gulf.
Expansion of our drilling products and services and production services in the international markets is also progressing.
We've now shipped coiled tubing and drill pipe capacity to Argentina and anticipate further transfers of idle coiled tubing units from the U.S.
and other international markets before year end.
We are seeing strong activity from our snubbing and rental tool expansion in West Africa and are gaining traction in Asia with production and completion services.
As excited as I am about the long-term expansion of Superior in the international markets I know that the real story today is a recovery in U.S.
business.
Our margin improvement in the second quarter is indicative of cost discipline higher utilization and moderately improved price.
I think that you can expect to see additional top line growth over the next several quarters with margins that are at least consistent with what we delivered in the second quarter.
We have created an exceptionally strong position in the U.S.
market evidenced by quality execution in the field an efficient cost structure and exposure in the right basins.
Our operating leverage which has been undervalued since the 2012 acquisition of Complete and continues to be undervalued is the most significant near-term value creation opportunity for Superior and our shareholders.
Our belief is that you will continue to see that operating leverage on display with earnings growth as the oil markets continue to evolve in the U.S.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll open the phone line to questions now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jim Wicklund from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A quarter -- exceptional quarter though.
Pressure pumping clearly is as strong or stronger than everybody else has mentioned.
You talked about -- I guess you basically said that if you thought you can get proppant you would put more crews to work.
Is that true? And are you guys considering doing what everybody else seems to be doing which is adding additional horsepower? Well we're not -- I'm not announcing today that we're adding horsepower Jim.
We still got idle capacity that we want to put to work before we begin to place orders for new horsepower.
But on the sand supply sand supply is tight.
And we've had bottlenecks on the rail since about April I guess and saw some of these bottlenecks in April and May.
I can't say that there were huge disruptions to our fracturing business as a result of that but clearly there were bottlenecks and there seemed to be bottlenecks at the mines now.
So I think sand will continue to be an important impact factor in the way capacity gets deployed.
As I said in our prepared remarks we feel confident we're going to be able to secure sand capacity to add at least one additional fleet before the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay David.
And then my follow-up you've got a barge rig for sale and you've got Hallin Marine for sale and you're not ready to start adding pressure pumping capacity just yet.
Hypothetically what do you do with the proceeds? Yes.
So we continue to buy back shares and continue to pay dividends.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Good uses of cash.
Okay.
Well also Jim just to finish that commentary we continue to look for tuck-in international acquisitions which have been very additive for us.
And those are -- or tend to be relatively small deals but we continue to look for those strategic plays.
Our next question is from Marshall Adkins from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The Gulf of Mexico on the Drilling Production Services side was obviously light this quarter.
It sounds like in your guidance that that was kind of a short-term deal that you expect that to rebound nicely in the back half.
Is that -- am I reading that right? Or could you give us a little more color on that? Yes you're reading it right.
I mean if you look at performance in that group historically and I know for the -- listen since Macondo the -- all we've seen some Drilling Products and Services is just to continue increases with the -- as we've seen deepwater rigs come in and utilization.
So maybe kind of historically over the last 8 quarters it may not be easy to follow this.
But in that business product mix does matter.
And when we have rigs which are more weighted to the completion cycle you'll see our earnings in Drilling Products and Services be on the high side.
When we're more weighted to the drilling side they'll be a bit lower and our margin tends to be a bit more leveraged to completion.
So we do expect that we're going to see kind of a return to a normal product mix for the rest of this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know you've caught a little heat on the timing of your Complete acquisition but it seems to be paying off in spades now.
My question on that end of the business is historically Complete didn't have the sand infrastructure capacity that a lot of other companies did and my sense is that's probably one of the limiting constraints here.
Is that fair? And are you -- does that mean that you build out more sand delivery capacity? Or am I just missing that totally? Well I mean I think different companies handle their supply chain for sand in different ways.
Remember that a lot of the sand that we pump is actually supplied by customers.
And so in that case we're really not involved in the supply chain.
Now I'll say this.
We do have to have confidence that our customers that are supplying sand are going to be able to get it in order for us to feel good about activating new fleets for them.
But nonetheless it puts us in a little bit different position in the supply chain.
You're right that we don't own all of our sand infrastructure.
We've got a captive relationship that has been an extremely reliable supplier for us and I'm sure will be as we forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So no plans to build out more capacity internally to handle this just to kind of leverage off what you have existing? Well it's something that we think about Marshall.
Our next question is from Jim Crandell from Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave on -- you mentioned in your prepared remarks about you are now starting to see some pricing in the frac business.
Can you make -- can you comment on whether that is broad based by region or in particular areas? And can you comment on whether that more or less offsets cost? Or are you seeing real price increases? I think we saw some of the price drop to the bottom line in the second quarter.
And we produced very strong incremental margin and that's clearly one of the contributors.
As well as cost control I think they contribute to that.
I don't know that I'd characterize it as across all the basins at this point Jim.
We suspected that our first opportunities for price improvement would be in the Permian and I think that that's accurate.
But the tug that the Permian Basin is having on the overall completion supply chain is having this as well as at adjacent regions.
So we've seen capacity that pulled out of South Texas into the Permian.
We've seen some capacity that's been pulled out of the Mid-Continent and Panhandle into the Permian.
And of course what that means is the resulting capacity in those regions tends to get a little bit tighter.
So it's mainly driven by the Permian at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a really follow-up I know you said in the past that you would not I think put your idle frac fleets to work unless you had a a term contract; and b it was at some kind of a premium to spot prices.
So I guess the one that you feel really good about is is that in fact the case? And then secondly just to ask again about the sand infrastructure capacity is that a factor that is limiting your ability to win term -- you have your term contracts out there.
But because of sand infrastructure capacity you essentially can't bid on them or can't do the work? Yes so first off I don't know we've said we'd only activate fleets for term contracts.
What -- now what we need to have in order to activate a fleet as we had in the first quarter of this year and believe we'll have as -- before the end of this year are strong commitments from customers which are going to drive high utilization.
Whether that's in the form of a term contract or a long-term commitment it doesn't really matter.
We just got to have a confidence level that the customers are going to be able to drive a high stage count and pump a lot of sand per well.
So that's the primary factor.
As for sand supply you have to pay attention to sand supply.
I mean it doesn't do a whole lot of good to reactivate or build a new frac fleet if you're not going to be able to put your hands on the sand that you need to put through right? So it's -- I wouldn't say it's a limiting factor for us.
It's just something you've got to understand before you activate equipment.
Our next question is from Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll start -- when you look at the -- you mentioned kind of your growth expectations in the Gulf of Mexico.
We see sort of what's going on with the U.S.
land activity in general.
How are you thinking about SPN's land growth this year in the U.S.? Well listen Steve our -- what we've said about U.S.
-- about the U.S.
land market I think continues to be true.
It's going to be driven by horizontal rig count.
I mean what we saw in an inflection point in second quarter in our U.S.
land activity was a result of horizontal rigs which have been added to the U.S.
land market in -- late in the fourth quarter of '13 first quarter of '14 and then the second quarter as well.
So watch that horizontal rig count.
It's the best barometer.
Certainly we see some utilization uplift as operators in primarily the Permian Basin become more efficient as horizontal well operators.
But the primary thing to watch is horizontal rig count.
So part of what gives me confidence going forward about growth opportunity is that we continue to hear from the drilling contractors that they are building rigs and the rigs have a commitment behind them.
And so as you see those rigs flow in the marketplace that is our best opportunity long term for continued growth in our U.S.
land business.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up when we think about the incremental margins on the North American side any change in -- I'm going to use a sort of a roughly 25% to 30% range but a do you think that's realistic? And any change to that as you start to get some activity growth and maybe a bit of pricing? I think pricing aside as you think about utilization or as utilization increases and top line grows I mean I expect incremental margins that are kind of in the 30% to 35% range.
And I think that's what we'll see absent price improvement.
Price improvement of course is going to drive that number higher.
I don't know -- the hard call for us to make the hard call for you to make is look at well how much this price moves between now and the end of the year and I don't know that we're ready to quantify that for you.
But I do think that there's an upward bias to price.
I personally think the best way to think about this for at least the third quarter is to consider that any price improvement we see out there just offsets inflationary costs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could just slip one quick one in.
With -- x Hallin Marine how will that change your fourth quarter seasonality? It -- the -- it changes some.
Hallin Marine provided negative seasonal influence for us in the fourth quarter and the first quarter probably more predominant in the fourth -- in the first quarter of any year than the fourth quarter.
But it definitely changes the seasonality.
We still have Gulf of Mexico seasonality in our Production Services businesses and in the plug and abandonment business.
Our next question is from Jason Bandel from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was with fluid management.
And coming back to kind of your Q1 guidance with that I think you were looking more for a -- for flat revenues sequentially.
I guess figuring there were lots of heating revenue it would hopefully be offset by a pickup in rig count and wire activity with that.
I'm assuming based on the levels of increase in revenue for the other products in that service line you gave in your prepared remarks that it probably came in a little bit lower than that.
So how should we think about the fluid market kind of going forward in the second half? Revenues were relatively flat in the fluids management business from Q1 to Q2.
And we did lose heating revenue and that comes with high margin.
It's not that the margin has collapsed in that business by any means.
I've been very pleased though with the way the fluids management business has performed.
And I know that not every one of our competitors is saying the same thing but this is about geographic positioning and our geographic strength in the fluids management business is really in the Rockies where we've got a very strong market position and in Mid-Continent.
And so those areas have been -- continue to be the biggest revenue contribution in that fluid management business and its performance has been fairly stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And an unrelated follow-up for me.
I know you have a couple of pumping contracts here or there scheduled to roll over in the second half.
Any indications so far of what your customers are going to do with those contracts and what kind of impact that can have on your margins? Well these are -- we provided a very good history of our contracts at our Investor Day last year and what you see in that history is you see that those were not new contracts last year.
Most of those have been contracts which have renewed 3 and 4 and sometimes 5 times.
Our expectation is that those long-term relationships would continue and would continue under some type of a term contract.
So I mean we do have some that begin to expire late in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter and our expectation is that those would roll over.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave I was trying to true-up your comments on expected incrementals in the U.S.
market with the comment that margins will remain at least consistent with those delivered in Q2.
It seems to me in C&amp;W the Completion and Workover business and Production Services you benefited from some lower E&amp;A and G&amp;A in the second quarter.
Is that a reason -- is that a reason why the margin guidance you provided wasn't a little bit more definitive for Q3? I don't know if it's a reason why.
I mean I think that part of my language there Daniel is that I did mention that our margins were impacted in certain of the businesses during the second quarter by price.
And really what I want you to think about is top line growth in the third quarter and the incremental margins that would be consistent with higher utilization levels as opposed to price because it's kind of hard to call today whether or not there is going to be an incremental price improvement activity in the third quarter.
Did that answer your question? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes that was helpful.
You steered my eyes further up the P&amp;L.
I guess I'll try to pin you to one other one then.
I mean is another quarter of mid-single-digit advance in U.S.
land practical given your underutilized capacity as you alluded to earlier? Without question.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe then a last one.
To switch gears you ran through a litany of international start-ups.
But I don't know if I heard -- I heard for the Gulf of Mexico but any update on just your thinking on where international revenue trends end up '14 versus '13? Yes I don't know.
I mean our target every year is around 15%.
We may struggle to get to that this year.
It may be a bit lower than that and it's primarily driven by the fact that Brazil which has really been a target area for us for expansion for the last several years has kind of leveled out between '13 and '14 where we would have probably predicted more growth.
Outside of Brazil our target countries have been expanding quite nicely from a revenue and margin standpoint during the course of the year.
And I think what we would like to do and maybe I'll be in a position to talk about this next quarter we'd like to put our stake in the ground in a new spot sometime very soon.
It's most likely to be in Asia but there's other opportunities that we're working on as well in Latin America and the Middle East.
So as we've talked about in the past our international expansion is very much a rifle shot.
We're choosing countries where we believe we've got the best opportunity at the least risk.
And so we'll continue down that path.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll just ask one more.
And that's should we assume then that you are looking at an M&amp;A opportunity or 2 in the Far East? We're -- it's a safe assumption that we are always looking at an M&amp;A opportunity or 2 in Asia Middle East or Latin America.
And next we'll take a follow-up question from Jim Wicklund from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's me again guys.
NOV announced on their call that coiled tubing especially larger diameter were seeing a pickup in activity.
You mentioned coiled tubing.
Can you talk about -- and coiled tubing is typically thought of more with gas than oil but it's an advanced system.
Can you give us an update on coiled tubing in -- both in the U.S.
and the Mexico markets? Yes certainly.
Mike well let me start with Mexico.
It's the easy one.
Mexico coiled tubing is flat from where it has been for the last 3 or 4 quarters.
Most of that activity is in Southern Mexico.
Where we're working under a contract.
And of course Northern Mexico still is to be -- still can -- is at depressed levels which have existed since the first quarter of 2013.
In the U.S.
I know -- I understand your comment that coiled tubing tends to get a little bit more levered to gas but it is also levered to oil.
It's levered to a horizontal rig count.
And so the horizontal rig count increase is dragging up coiled tubing utilization on -- from an oil standpoint as well.
So I mean that is certainly helpful.
Well we continue to have idle coiled tubing units in the U.S.
which we consolidated late last year second half of last year.
Those coiled tubing units are available for international transfer and it's still our intention to look for international markets to place those coiled tubing units.
We've shipped a couple of them now down to Latin America and I think there'll probably be a couple more that gets shipped out before the end of this year.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management.
Well thanks for your attention to our call today and we'll talk to you next quarter.
This does conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded October 30 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Robert Taylor Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
Joining me today is Superior's President and CEO Dave Dunlap.
Let me remind everyone that during this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I will now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Thank you Robert and good morning to everyone.
Yesterday we reported quarterly revenue of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $332 million and net income from continuing operations of $85.7 million or $0.55 per diluted share.
Higher demand for many of our product lines drove a 13% sequential increase in revenue in our U.S.
land market with our hydraulic fracturing business leading the way.
We did not have any additional idle equipment mobilizations during the quarter.
Instead our improvement was a result of higher revenue generated by our fleets in the Permian Bakken Eagle Ford and Marcellus.
In addition the fleet that we activated earlier this year reached optimal utilization during the quarter.
The supply chain for the fracturing business continues to be tight but our team has managed through this challenge and the impact was inconsequential during the quarter.
I believe that today we're running the most efficient hydraulic fracturing business in the U.S.
and are poised for continued growth.
Our Drilling Products and Services product lines also benefited from higher revenue as a result of the continued strength of horizontal drilling in the U.S.
More significantly during the third quarter we continued to experience very solid international revenue growth up over 20% from last quarter.
The revenue increase was broad-based with contributions from the North Sea Australia Indonesia and Brazil.
Outside of Drilling Products and Services our international expansion continues to gather momentum.
Recent global events have resulted in some negative sentiment to the international markets.
However I'll remind you that our growth strategy is a rifle-shot approach tightly focused on markets that we believe offer better near-term certainty.
So far our targets have proven to be insulated from the pressures that have caused growth prospects in countries such as Russia Iraq and Libya to give investors concern about near-term international growth.
I'll have more comments about our near-term international opportunities as we discuss our outlook.
Finally our Gulf of Mexico revenue was relatively flat during the quarter.
Like most offshore service providers we were impacted by loop currents during the course of the quarter.
However it is clear that our overall size in the market and product line diversity largely insulated us from any significant impact of this weather phenomenon.
I think that the earnings growth that we experienced in Q3 demonstrates continued success in our core strategies related to international expansion and higher utilization in the U.S.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Robert.
Thank you Dave.
As we go through each segment I will make comparisons to the second quarter 2014.
In the Drilling Products and Services segment revenue is $239 million and income from operation was $78 million which represents a 6% sequential increase in revenue and a 17% increase in operating income.
U.S.
land revenue increased 5% to $86 million.
We experienced higher levels of rentals for accommodations and bottomhole assembly.
International revenue increased 24% to $64 million primarily due to increased rentals of premium drill pipe in the North Sea and Australia as well as increased rentals of accommodations in Trinidad.
Gulf of Mexico revenue from this segment was $90 million which was 3% lower than the second quarter primarily due to decreased specialty rentals.
Operating income was helped by a better mix of higher-margin premium drill pipe activity.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue was up 18% to $471 million with income from operations of $55 million significantly higher than Q2.
As Dave mentioned in his opening comments on a sequential basis the revenue increase was driven primarily by an increase in pressure pumping services.
Production Services segment revenue increased slightly to $349 million while operating income decreased to $13 million.
Increased U.S.
land revenue was offset by a decrease in Gulf of Mexico and international revenue.
U.S.
land revenue increased 5% to $225 million primarily due to increase in coiled tubing wireline and snubbing services.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 3% to $37 million and international revenue decreased 5% to $87 million.
This segment experienced a decline in operating income which was primarily driven by an increase in repairs and maintenance expense in our coiled tubing business decreased snubbing activity and higher costs in our U.S.
land wireline business.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue was $150 million which represents an 8% increase from the second quarter while operating income declined to $16 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 4% to $84 million primarily due to increased plug and abandonment and well control activity.
U.S.
land revenue increased 20% to $32 million primarily related to well control services and sale of completion tools.
International revenue increased 5% to $34 million primarily due to increased well control services.
Operating income was negatively impacted by our business mix as our typically high-margin completion tools revenue was down from a very strong performance in the second quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet.
At the end of the third quarter our debt was just under $1.7 billion.
Debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 1.4x and debt to total capital was 28.5%.
Capital additions in the third quarter were about $123 million and we expect capital additions for the year to be in the range of $600 million to $650 million.
We fully expect free cash flow for the year to be in excess of $250 million.
In the third quarter we repurchased and retired about 2 million shares for $69 million.
Year-to-date through September 30 we have repurchased and retired 5.9 million shares for a total consideration of $186 million.
For the fourth quarter we think the weighted average share count should be approximately 155 million shares.
This incorporates our share repurchases through the third quarter.
From a modeling perspective in the fourth quarter we think you should model G&amp;A in a range of $158 million to $161 million.
G&amp;A expense in the third quarter is up just over $8 million from the second quarter.
But as you will recall from our second quarter conference call G&amp;A expense in the second quarter benefited from approximately $6.8 million of net positive adjustments that did not repeat.
With respect to DD&amp;A we think you should model a range of $173 million to $177 million.
We anticipate net interest expense to be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
International expansion continues to be at the forefront of our strategic initiatives as we have laid the groundwork for what should be significant international growth in 2015.
During Q3 we acquired an Indian private company that has an attractive presence in the land market primarily in Rajasthan.
Product offerings today include cased hole wireline and well testing but we see near-term opportunities to add coiled tubing and pressure pumping to this business during the next 12 months.
This provides us another solid platform and management team to build what we expect to be another significant country operation.
In Colombia we were awarded 2 separate multiyear pressure pumping contracts with start-up in early 2015 that should result in a near doubling of our revenue base.
In Argentina during Q4 we will start up nitrogen coiled tubing and drill pipe operations to add to our cased hole wireline well test and flowback businesses.
The product line expansion is being accomplished with assets repositioned from the U.S.
and entering a market that we believe will experience significant growth over the next few years as Argentina begins to unlock the resource potential of their unconventional reservoirs.
In Brazil we've been awarded a multiyear land coiled tubing contract and have several drill pipe contracts that begin in early 2015.
Our multiyear landing string contract with Petrobras has begun to hit full stride.
And although we still have several ongoing contracts that are not at full utilization we are beginning to see signs of increasing activity in Brazil.
We will talk in greater detail about our 2015 growth expectations for the international businesses during our Q4 conference call but it is clear to me that we have set the table for very strong international growth in the years to come.
We've talked to you in the past about portfolio optimization being an important part of our effort to increase returns in the company.
Our recent optimization efforts are focused on Hallin Marine.
We have not identified a buyer that is willing to pay what we consider to be a fair valuation for the business and so have launched an effort to sell Hallin's assets separately.
Although this business has not performed well for us there has never been a question about the high quality of the assets and we have been encouraged by the market uptake since the asset sale process began.
We expect the majority of asset sales to be concluded during the next several quarters.
As completions activity in the U.S.
land market continues to increase we will have deployed another 50 000 hydraulic horsepower in our U.S.
fleet by the end of Q4.
This includes the addition of a fleet in the Permian Basin on a committed basis not in the spot market.
Although all of our U.S.
product lines have benefited from the continued increase in horizontal drilling rigs several of our Production Services product lines continue to experience margin pressure.
We have had some recent success in relocating Production Services assets from the U.S.
and will continue our strategy to rightsize the U.S.
fleet transfer assets to international markets and continue to seek ways to optimize our cost.
Although completions demand in the U.S.
has continued to increase we will keep a watchful eye on how our customers respond to the recent decline in oil prices.
There has been no impact at this point and we do not expect any material impact on planned spending through the end of Q4.
However we understand the relationship between our customers' cash flow and future spending and we'll continue to be cautious in our approach to further expansion of our U.S.
asset base.
I am very proud of the work our management team and employees at Superior.
And I'm confident that you will continue to see us convert the operating leverage available on our U.S.
service lines and success in our international expansion efforts into continued earnings growth.
And with that we'll open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You have been pretty darn good at prognosticating activity in certain areas particularly Gulf of Mexico.
I'd like to get your thoughts on the elephant in the room which is the price of oil coming down.
At today's oil price where do you see the greatest risk both in terms of by region and by product line? Is there certain areas that stand out as riskier or less risky than others I guess is the question.
Yes I mean I think the biggest risk in 2015 is in the U.S.
land market.
I think it probably takes a little bit longer for international markets and deepwater offshore markets to really respond to this.
And I think the risk probably lies in some of the areas that are not in the heart of some of the conventional basins today.
So we've seen some activity increases in places like the Eaglebine and perhaps in the Mid-Continent area and SCOOP and STACK.
And maybe those are the areas that are -- that we would see any change in spending levels occur first.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And by product line any specific products we should be more worried about than others? It's going to -- you're going to see it in the way of horizontal drilling activity.
And all of our product lines have a leverage to a horizontal rig count so I think they all have potential exposure.
I think clearly today the tightest part of the supply chain in our service lines resides in hydraulic fracturing.
And so perhaps it's some of the other product lines that feel any weakness first and hydraulic fracturing is down the list a bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last one for me.
Loop currents seems like that was an issue this quarter.
Does that solve itself in the next quarter or 2? Is that -- should we expect to bounce back there in the [indiscernible]...
Well I think the challenge you get into in the fourth quarter in the Gulf of Mexico is in the way of cold fronts.
And so what were challenges with loop currents over the last 3 or 4 months very soon becomes challenges with cold fronts.
And it's very normal for us to see some seasonal upset particularly in Production Services-related work or end-of-life related work during the fourth quarter.
Mr.
Jonathan Sisto with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David you are one of the few service companies that kind of calls out your pressure pumping margins.
You obviously showed a very healthy improvement quarter-over-quarter.
As we think about the fourth quarter is there a risk that there's some sort of seasonality or customer slowdown around the holidays that might impede us from continuing to see that margin improvement? Yes I don't know that it is necessarily isolated as an issue to hydraulic fracturing Jonathan.
But I think that it is quite normal for us to see some type of seasonal slowdown occur in the fourth quarter and it is always going to be around the holiday periods.
Weather can have a negative impact on that around the holiday periods in the fourth quarter.
And it's -- we've seen it happen in recent years where operators are going to deliberately slow down around the Thanksgiving or Christmas holidays.
And if the weather happens to be bad around there then the slowdown lasts a bit longer.
And so I think everybody ought to be aware of that.
I don't think that's isolated to hydraulic fracturing or that hydraulic fracturing is in any more exposed to that potential than any of the other product lines.
So I mean it's out there.
That's what happens in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And the 50 000 horsepower that -- to be reactivated in the quarter is that -- will that be the last of what you have on the fence? We've got more horsepower that could go to work in 2015 if we see the opportunities to put it to work for the right customer at the right price.
We've been consistent in saying as we activate horsepower that those are really the criteria.
And at this point that would continue to be our criteria for activating more hydraulic fracturing equipment.
Honestly 2 months ago I would have probably been a lot more optimistic about saying we're going to have more hydraulic fracturing horsepower that goes to work early in 2015.
I think at this point we need to be a bit more cautious in that optimism until we understand a little bit better what our customers' budget plans are for next year.
Research Division</strong> Of course.
And Robert maybe if I could as the international revenue stream comes online in '15 given the prepared remarks should we think that the tax rate kind of comes down a little bit more? It might a little bit but I wouldn't model in anything significant.
Robin Shoemaker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So just Dave sticking on the North America front again.
Is your -- apart from the issue of reactivating some of your idle assets the assets that are deployed are you at full utilization now in terms of number of days per month that a -- and 24-hour operations that -- and I would expect that has largely explained the improvement in your margins year-to-date.
But what further improvements and utilization apart from the pricing issue which I also wanted to ask about but.
So Robin I think it's probably safe to say at this point that we -- I wouldn't say that any of our product lines in the U.S.
today are at full utilization.
We've seen the greatest increase in utilization from our fracturing fleet over the past -- over the course of the past 2 quarters but all of the other product lines still have utilization improvements available to them.
And those utilization improvements would be seen in the way of increasing horizontal rig count.
Did I answer your question? Well you asked about price as well.
And so on the...
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then...
On the issue of price I mean we witnessed a bit of pricing improvement during the second quarter and some of that converted into a bit better price in hydraulic fracturing during the third quarter.
But that's really been the only product line where we've seen any change of note.
Research Division</strong> And on the procurement of sand and all the logistics behind that how do you feel you're positioned? Are you experiencing the big surge in sand pumped per well like others are talking about? And how do you assure yourselves that you get the adequate volumes and at the right price? Yes so -- I mean we are experiencing the same phenomenon related to sand per well or sand per stage that the entire market is experiencing and we've been very consistent with what we've said to you guys about this.
When we activate a fleet we're going to have certainty of sand supply over long term and that is exactly what we have done.
So we're very confident in sand supply for the fleets that we have working today.
If we choose to activate additional equipment in 2015 before it goes to work we will have secured long-term sand supply.
The market's tight.
It is clearly possible to secure more sand supply.
We're doing it now.
I mentioned that we're activating another 50 000 horsepower before the end of the quarter and we wouldn't activate it if we didn't have long-term sand supply.
So listen it's a tight supply chain.
No question.
I think over time it gets better but we've demonstrated that we have a -- we can manage through this without experiencing interruptions in the business.
Mr.
John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dave as I recall I'm going back in my memory bank here which is dangerous.
But you guys had previously talked about desire to grow broadly speaking international revenues I think 15% 20% per year.
In an all else being equal world given the recent deployments of equipment in new areas the Colombia contract the acquisition of the Indian company does that get you to that 15% to 20% threshold next year? Yes.
So as I mentioned we'll give you some specifics on international growth expectations when we announce our Q4 earnings.
But the real easy answer to your question is yes I think so.
I mean we're a bit light in international growth in 2014 from that kind of midpoint 15% annualized expectation that we've expressed to you guys.
I think we're probably a little bit overachieving that next year and I'll give you more specifics on that when we report Q4.
But -- and that's the way you ought to expect growth to occur.
It would be nice if it was kind of on a straight line 15% a year over 5 years.
But the reality is you're going to have some years that fall below that and that's the case this year and other years which exceed that.
I think the fact that we have so much positive going on late in the year in 2014 related to acquisitions as well as new contract awards and equipment transfers that it sets the stage for a pretty nice growth in 2015 since most of those contracts and asset transfers will be in place in Q1.
So you get a full year benefit out of them.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Are there any -- it's an impressive list which is why I asked the question.
As we think about Q4 and your Onshore Completion and Workover Services business you've got the benefit of the incremental fleet going out presumably a nice exit rate from Q3.
Yet you've got the seasonal factors that impact well servicing and trucking and you know the drill there.
Just directionally how would you expect the top line within that segment? What are you thinking in terms of Q4? I'm always going to be cautious on what happens around the seasonality and holiday season during the fourth quarter.
Because it seems that whenever we try and get robust in expectations in the fourth quarter we get -- we wind up seeing something happen around the holidays that was not what we expected.
So to me even with additional horsepower going to work which as I said it's going to work during the course of the quarter and it will be fully in place by the end of the fourth quarter.
And when we activated a new fleet in the first quarter it took us a bit of time before it was really up to full utilization so I'm not thinking that that additional 50 000 horsepower adds a whole lot for us during the quarter and that in addition to what we see from a seasonal standpoint with holidays achieving flat revenue would be a big deal.
I mean I think that would be -- I think we'd be pressed to do that.
Mr.
Jason Bandel with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Turning now to the Gulf of Mexico.
Dave you talked about how revenue has been -- was flat sequentially and it's pretty much been relatively flat throughout the year but still up about 4% year-over-year.
Now with the loop currents and [indiscernible] past that do you think you guys can still hit your high single-digit target for year-over-year growth for Gulf of Mexico? It'll be a stretch.
I mean we -- I won't say it's just impossible but it would be a stretch to get there.
And although loop currents were -- listen loop currents impacted everybody during the course of the quarter.
If we had not had loop currents clearly our earnings would've been a bit better.
We think it probably cost us on the order of $0.01 or $0.02.
And clearly that would've driven rental tools up closer to that 8% 9% mark that we put out there for the year.
So I don't know.
A lot just depends on what happens in the way of cold fronts and other activity in the Gulf of Mexico during Q4.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And now switching gears to Production Services.
Can you talk about what caused the increase to your repair and maintenance expenses? And do you think those are going to continue to run at a higher rate going forward? Well I don't -- it's hard to call.
We had I don't know 6 or 8 strings of coiled tubing that we prematurely had to move off a truck.
So generally when we get new pipe -- and remember these are 2-inch generally 2 or 2 and 3 inch -- 2 3/8 diameter coil strings that are in the neighborhood of $200 000 to $300 000 in cost.
We generally expect that we're going to get somewhere in the neighborhood of a 6-month useful life.
And we had 6 or 8 strings this quarter that did -- only got us 2 or 3 months.
So they had to come out of service earlier than anticipated.
We don't let them fail in the well.
We have predictive measures that we're able to use so that we remove the pipe from the unit before we put ourselves at risk of a failure.
And when we do that pull that unit off of -- or pull that pipe off of a unit before its expected life is done then we've got to account for a higher expense for it.
We've taken the pipe back to the manufacturer to better understand why useful life was impacted in the way that it has.
And so I can't give you an answer to whether or not it's a onetime event or something that we may see again in the future.
It is a bit unusual though.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> Yes that definitely helps.
And last one a quick balance sheet question for Robert.
The decline in assets held for sale on the balance sheet by about $40 million was that in relation to the Hallin Marine? Or is there anything else causing that? It's actually both.
It was a collection of accounts receivable for those businesses.
And those were used to satisfy some of the remaining liabilities associated with those businesses.
Mr.
Jeff Spittel with Clarkson Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Dave in the past you've accurately pointed out that we should monitor and concentrate a little bit more on the rig count rather than necessarily the well count in North America.
Who knows what's going to happen next year.
But if maybe we see the rig count flatten out a little bit does that necessarily preclude you from still driving some operating leverage out of the U.S.
land business or because of efficiencies and well intensity et cetera? Or do we need the recount [ph] to continue to move higher in your view? Well I mean so this is a...
Research Division</strong> That's a tough one.
I know.
No it's not a tough question.
It's actually -- it's really not.
The real issue and the variable here becomes how long is it going to be flat.
Because what I can tell you is that if you go flat for a couple of quarters then your ability to continue to drive efficiencies is there.
But what we know about flat markets is that ultimately in a flat market you do begin to experience cost inflation and flat markets are not an opportunity to improve prices.
And so you see what we saw in the second half of 2013 which is some margin compression.
So a lot just depends on for how long.
And I think that's -- there's not a reason for us at this point to believe that a flat market expectation is the right one.
But the other thing is how long does it last? And to me I look at 2013 and what we saw in 2013 were 2 quarters -- the first 2 quarters of results that were very flat with we had in the fourth quarter and then we began to see some margin compression in the second half of the year.
Now we're at a bit higher market level today overall higher rig count than we were in 2013.
So that tells me that you're not going to see a complete repeat of the type of performance that we saw then.
But in the back of my mind that's kind of an expectation.
Did that answer your question? Research Division</strong> No it certainly does.
It's a great answer.
And then maybe kind of following on with that theme depending on what North America looks like next year and I know it's early to think about growth CapEx plans for '15.
But given your rifle-shot approach and your discipline internationally if the North American market's a little flatter does that present more of an opportunity to accelerate some of those growth opportunities internationally? Or are we going to just stick to our discipline and take it from there? Well I don't know that it really changes our pace of investment internationally.
We have -- our pace of investment internationally has increased the last couple of years.
It will continue to increase as that business matures and has more opportunities for new capital investment.
I think that what we have done -- and I feel very proud of this fact.
What we have done in building out this international business is we have done it in a disciplined way that is not outreaching what we're capable of managing in the right way.
And the result has been that we've had strong and steady growth internationally without having some of the management hiccups that many companies like ours that have tried to expand internationally have experienced.
So from a cash standpoint a flat U.S.
market that doesn't present good growth opportunities makes more cash available for international.
But we've had cash available the last 2 years and what we've done is continue to follow a pace that we believe results in a good solid return as well as earnings growth internationally.
And don't expect us to do anything differently.
Mr.
Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dave on the Production Services side just trying to think about how margins evolve here going forward.
The U.S.
side's a bit of a question mark just given the commodity environment.
But when we look at the international additions that you highlighted that are going to fold [ph] through that Production Services business how accretive could margins on that business be? Or how accretive are margins on that business relative to some of the margins we're seeing right now? So what I'll tell you is that overall Production Services international margins today are at a higher level than Production Services in the U.S.
That's a smaller part of the mix.
As we add assets to the Production Services business internationally over time as those assets come in place and they reach full utilization then we'd expect to drive very good -- better margins than what we see in the segment in total.
But when you move the assets you're not getting anything in the quarter that you move the asset.
You're probably having to hire crews at the receiving location in advance of the assets going to work.
Assets seldom go to work at optimal utilization on day 1.
It's a bit of a building and phasing prospect that you go through when you transfer the assets in.
I don't mean to set that up to sound like it's going to take us 1 year.
It's usually a matter of 1 quarter or 2 before you see the assets delivering the type of incremental margins that we would expect.
And just for clarification on Production Services assets we'd expect those incremental margins to be kind of in the 30% EBITDA range.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a follow-up just in terms of triangulating on that international growth rate in aggregate next year can you give us a sense for the revenue generation of the business you're acquiring over in India? Just to understand what that's folding in for you guys at current pace.
So let me see if I can give you a bit of help on this one.
We would expect over the course of the next year or 2 that India is kind of a $30-million-a-year operation for us.
Was that helpful? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is.
That's perfect.
I didn't tell you where it is right now but that's where we would expect it to go.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Darren Gacicia with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wanted to get a little more granular just in terms of pressure pumping number of fleets that are contracted long term and how that looks into '15? I know reactivating you said it would have a long-term contract.
I just want to get a sense of mix and maybe how we want to think about how long-term contracts are pricing relative to maybe spot market and the rest.
Okay.
I think that it is 8 fleets that we have that are contracted at this point.
And of course this is a time of year where we're going through negotiations on further extension of those contracts so I'll be able to give you a much clearer idea of what the absolute contracts are going forward when we get to our Q4 call.
But I'd give you this bit of color.
I don't expect the numbers of contracted fleets to be higher in 2015 but I think they're probably going to be about the same.
I mean I think we'll wind up with another 8 contracted fleets in 2015.
Part of what we'll be talking about with the customers and have been talking about with those customers about extensions is what's more important to us the cost recovery price improvement or longer-term nature of the contracts.
What I can tell you in general about our contracted fleets is that they tend to be priced very competitively but they also tend to be the highest utilization fleets.
And what we've learned about that pricing model is that even at a very competitive price level we can generate very high margins with those fleets when they're highly utilized.
So preservation of that core part of the business I look at as being an important part of our formula going forward.
And so all of these things are kind of in the mix.
And I know I didn't give you a perfect answer on this Darren but it's kind of because we're in the middle of the process with these contract renewals now.
We'll give you good color on it when we get to the Q4 call but my expectation is we'll continue forward with 8 fleets that are contracted.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
One more sort of on the same front.
You talked about securing sand supply.
Is there anything different in terms of the way those contracts are being negotiated? Is -- obviously there's usually take-or-pay components.
Is there fixed volume? Does -- is there -- that they're kind of required to make sure is available? How does it work just as you think about utilization of some of the fleets and what may be coming on and the rest? How do you -- how are things changing maybe from the way things were negotiated before? I don't know that they've changed a lot.
I mean typically if you want to lock into certainty of supply from a mine then you're having to buy forward.
And I don't think that's -- that's not new.
That's been part of the business for some time.
The actual details on those terms some people will refer to them as take-or-pay.
In other cases they're treated more like a volumetric commitment that can have some flexibility on deliveries.
So I don't know.
They take on different forms.
I would say this though back to your question.
I don't the form of those deals have changed dramatically in the last year.
There are still plenty of people out there that are interested in investing and building mines although I'd say more of them are brown sand mines than they are white sand mines in recent months but there's supply that's available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
If I could squeeze one in on a slightly different topic of -- when you look at the international growth are we still mainly looking at that being driven by rentals? And I'm assuming a good a decent chunk especially premium pipe could be for offshore projects.
That requires a certain amount of outlook on what's going happen next year in the offshore market.
Can you give us a little color on what you're seeing there? And how you kind of perceive the mix of international growth maybe with respect to that? Yes so I mean I think the way you ought to think about our international growth it's occurring in 2 different segments: one is in Drilling Products and Services and the other is in Production Services although clearly we have some opportunities that are more completions-oriented as we go forward.
I mentioned fracturing as being an opportunity in India and I think there'll be a fracturing opportunity at some point in Argentina as well and hopefully some other places.
But think about it as Drilling Products and Services and Production Services as being the primary pieces.
Your comment on drill pipe I mean our product line is weighted generally in premium drill pipe to the offshore market.
That being said we've got drill pipe going down to Argentina right now that's clearly for a land market.
When it's going into a land market as it is in Argentina some of that pipe is under a contract some of it will not be kind of the way that we've -- in the U.S.
land market most of our pipe is not long-term contracted but we've got some going into Argentina that is.
Nearly everything that we put into the international markets has got some kind of contract that goes along with it.
And so when we think about those offshore opportunities when we send pipe into an international market generally we've got a long-term commitment to go along with that.
So I don't feel that it is -- I don't feel that it's subject to a lot of changes or sways in spending that could occur in the future.
But as I said on an earlier comment I don't know that you should expect what's happened in oil prices recently to have a very near-term effect on the international countries that we operate in.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I imagine you have better lead time and kind of visibility for a little bit further out on some of the international work.
Is that fair to say? And can you maybe kind of define that? Yes.
I mean it is fair to say.
We generally do have better visibility and I don't know what I said.
Yes it usually does have a much clearer line of sight than what we see in the U.S.
Management there are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Okay.
Well thank you very much to everyone for joining the call today and we'll see you on the road.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Call.
If you would like to listen to a replay of today's conference please dial (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 2102356.
The conference center would like to thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Superior Energy Services fourth quarter earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations for Superior Energy Services.
With me today are Superior’s President and CEO Dave Dunlop and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business managements’ plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlop.
I’ll review fourth quarter and full year highlights Robert will discuss segment results and then I’ll conclude with some thoughts on our outlook for the first quarter and full year of 2015.
In a press release issued yesterday afternoon we reported revenue for the fourth quarter of 2014 of $1.2 billion EBITDA of $301 million and net income from continuing operations of $73 million or $0.48 per diluted share.
Many of our listeners today will remember that we concluded our third quarter 2014 call with remarks that we were becoming increasingly weary of the commodity price environment the impact it may have on our customers and our inclination to be cautious in our approach to US expansion.
At that time in late October the US landmark had started the quarter very strong but oil prices had begun to soften.
We were always concerned with seasonality in Q4.
However the precipitous drop in oil prices and corresponding decline I rig activity gave us further pause and we chose not to deploy any additional assets into the US operation during the quarter.
Internationally revenues were down slightly from Q3 as a result of product mix.
Revenue from the Gulf of Mexico was also down slightly in the quarter.
We typically expect the Gulf of Mexico to be soft in Q4 as a result of seasonality but there’s something more to it than just weather and seasonality.
It is clear that the market and the shallow water Gulf of Mexico is simply different today.
The market is very mature and its shrinking.
As plug and abandonment and well intervention opportunities decline it is obvious that revenue from these services in the Gulf will follow suit.
This isn’t an observation formed overnight but one based on many consecutive quarters of receding activity.
This change reinforces how critical our strategy of geographic expansion in our core targeted countries is to our growth prospects.
As we’ve been telling you for some time now our approach to international expansion is targeted and disciplined.
We’ve been able to grow without making large upfront capital commitments and our core product lines are leading the way.
Premium drill pipe coil tubing electric line slick line well test cementing stimulation and completion tools are all deployed overseas and constitute what I would consider to be consistent and stable revenue.
The approach we’ve taken to international expansion doesn’t just sound good it’s yielded results.
Those businesses I just highlighted grew from approximately $70 million in revenue in 2010 to a bit more than $250 million in revenue in 2013 and over $330 million in revenue in 2014.
We’re going about this the right way.
The business we’re pursuing is additive and will continue to balance our larger US land and Gulf of Mexico operations.
Before turning the call over to Robert who will provide more detail I believe it’s very important for listeners to understand our perspective on the business.
This perspective can be demonstrated by highlighting the tremendous cash generation of Superior Energy Services in 2014.
We generated record free cash flow our net cash from operations less our capital expenditures of almost $417 million and finished the year with approximately $1 billion in liquidity.
If you’re in this business long enough you’ll go through down cycles like the one we’re in.
Our team has been through periods similar to this before and we will manage the business based on the reality of the marketplace which should be clear is that we are uniquely positioned to weather this environment without changing our strategy or compromising our businesses our customers or the safety of our people.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Robert.
As I review each operating segment I’ll make comparisons to the third quarter 2014.
Drilling products and services segments revenue and income from operations remain flat at $239 million and $78 million respectively.
US land revenue increased 3% to $88 million and Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 3% to $92 million due to increase rentals associated with deep water projects across all product lines including bottom pole assemblies accommodation and premiums and drill pipes.
International revenue decreased 8% to $59 million primarily due to decreased rentals of premium drill pipe in the North Sea and a follow up from a strong quarter in Trinidad for our accommodations business.
In the onshore completion and work over services segment revenue remained flat at $469 million while income from operations decreased to $41 million.
While our pressure pumping business was slightly impacted by the write off of some old pumping equipment the majority of the decrease in income quarter-over-quarter was a result of insurance related cost associated with our well servicing rigs business.
Our production services revenue decreased 2% to $342 million and operating income decreased to $10 million.
US land revenue remained flat at $224 million and Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased to $28 million primarily due to seasonality and declining activity on the shelf.
International revenue increase 4% to $90 million primarily due to higher demand for work over and snubbing [indiscernible] in Latin America and Thailand.
Operating income in production services was primarily impacted by the weather and activity declines in the Gulf of Mexico was well as restructuring charges in Mexico.
In the technical solutions segment revenue was $129 million a 14% decrease from the third quarter.
Operating income declined to $14 million.
US land revenue decreased 26% to $24 million primarily related to well control services and sales of completion tools that did not repeat during the fourth quarter as well as seasonal and weather related drags on activity.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 13% to $73 million.
International revenue decreased 6% to $32 million primarily due to decreased well control services in Southeast Asia.
Operating income in technical services was lower primarily from decreased well control activity and decommissioning activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
Partially offsetting these decreases was a positive adjustment to DD&amp;A associated with our oil and gas properties.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity we ended the year with debt to EBITDA of 1.4 times and debt to capital of 28.8%.
Our total debt at year end was about $1.6 billion.
The company had record free cash flow of about $417 million after capital expenditures for the year of $616 million.
In addition as part of our continuous portfolio optimization process sales of assets in our sub C construction business generated proceeds of approximately $150 million in the fourth quarter.
We expect to finalize the sales of the remaining assets in the first half of 2015.
In the fourth quarter the company repurchased 4.4 million shares for about $114 million.
For the year the company repurchased 10.2 million shares for a total purchase price of $300 million.
During the fourth quarter our board of directors replaced the previous buy back authorization with a new one for $500 million and extended it for two years.
We also paid dividends of approximately $50 million during 2014.
At the end of the year we increased our cash balance to nearly $400 million which along with our $600 million undrawn revolving line of credit provides the company with about $1 billion of liquidity.
Superior Energy has no debt scheduled to mature before our credit facility matures in February of 2017 after that $500 million of our senior notes mature in 2019 with the remaining $800 million of senior notes maturing in 2021.
During the fourth quarter our credit rating which was already rated as investment grade by S&amp;P was upgraded to investment grade by Moodys.
From a modeling perspective in the first quarter 2015 we believe G&amp;A expense should decrease quarter-over-quarter and be between $155 million and $165 million.
G&amp;A expense in the fourth quarter was a bit above the upper range of our guidance of $161 million as a result of several categories including severance bad debt expenses and various asset disposals.
With respect to DD&amp;A we believe a range of $160 million to $165 million in the first quarter of 2015 reflects an appropriate level of expense.
Fourth quarter DD&amp;A expenses were down from the lower end of our guidance of $173 million primarily as a result of lower production and year end revisions to reserve estimates in our oil and gas operations.
We also had lower depreciation as a result of lower overall capital expenditures.
First quarter 2015 interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
On the strengthening of the US dollar we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $5.6 million reflected in other expense driven largely by our operations in Mexico and Brazil.
Our effective income tax was 35% in the quarter which included an adjustment to bring the annual effective income tax rate for 2014 to 36.5%.
We are using a 37% rate to model 2015.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
It is extremely difficult to predict the pace of change or predict when we reach the bottom of any down cycle.
We don’t control that but we do control how we respond to the cycle.
Our leaders managers and field staff are veterans who didn’t want for a phone call from headquarters to reduce costs rationalize facilities and prioritize their spending needs.
This is a tough time for our business but we are confident in our ability to position our business for success.
Historically we haven’t given much color on our hydraulic fracturing business but today discussion of that business and a few other examples will provide some insight into how we are managing for the future.
Our hydraulic fracturing business performed exceptionally well during 2014 as we achieved record revenue and profitability levels in the second half of the year.
We have a small customer base in fracturing but none the less were successful in diversifying the customer base over the course of the past 18 months.
As we have previously discussed our strategy in the US fracturing market has been to build a business to service the most efficient horizontal well factory operators and over the past few years more customers are fitting that criteria.
Why do we favor these clients? It’s all about driving dependable utilization to our business.
Our approach to the horizontal frac business has been to be proppant in the formation as efficient and rapidly as possible.
While we very much own the pumping services we give our customers latitude and flexibility to vertically integrate and supply their own proppant or chemicals or other products that they think fits them.
We haven’t built our business on deriving a profit on pass through items.
We have a unique equipment design that allows us to optimize maintenance in the field thus avoiding efficiency robbing equipment breakdowns.
We initiated a maintenance capital rebuild program three years ago that has allowed us to keep reliable equipment onsite and we’ll continue that rebuild effort in 2015 and beyond.
Most importantly we have leadership in the business that understands our approach and is constantly looking for ways to improve the high level of customer service and reliable execution that our customers have come to depend on.
Although we don’t break our fracturing results out separately what I can tell you is that the profitability levels that we have achieved in the business driven mainly by higher utilization and activating horsepower that was idle entering 2014 puts us in a position where we are able to respond to pricing demands in the current market environment and preserve our market share.
We will be working for the same clients as we serviced in 2014 clearly with fewer fleets but still operating 24/7.
We may get opportunities with new customers during 2015 as there are clearly more efficient horizontal well factory customers emerging all the time.
As we reached the peak during the recently ended cycle we were working about a half million horsepower.
Some of that horsepower will be parked in 2015.
In addition we have about 100 000 hydraulic horsepower that’s available or awaiting rebuild some of which will be rebuilt in 2015 as part of our maintenance capital program.
This market will improve.
When it does we will have high quality assets to put to work and we are confident that we will have even more clients that seek the high quality execution reliability and flexibility that our specialty horizontal frac business offers in the market.
In short 2014 has proven to me that this business model is scalable.
Internationally it’s a similar story.
We made great progress during 2014 in establishing an international footprint and furthering our core growth strategy of international expansion despite the headwinds that we along with the rest of the industry have faced in Mexico.
In Argentina revenues increased due to the additions to premium drill pipe and coral tubing to our product offering.
Revenues grew in Brazil on increased rental tool revenue with a new landing [string] contract.
We also realized growth in pressure pumping in Brazil.
We closed our acquisition in India where we see growth in 2015 after delivery of coral tubing and stimulation assets from our existing US fleet.
In Indonesia the expansion of our completion tool business led us to greater than two-fold increase in revenue.
We’ve now introduced seven inch and nine and five inch multi zone single trip systems in the market there and continue to develop the MST technology which will include a 7 5/8ths MST system for a Gulf of Mexico client.
We’ve been prudent some say conservative with cash and I say that we have and will continue to seek the best way to invest capital on behalf of our shareholders.
For 2015 we will reduce our capital expenditures by at least 35% from 2014 levels.
The 2015 spend will be comprised of primarily maintenance capital with some capital allocated towards international growth.
We expect that in 2015 we will generate free cash flow and believe our balance sheet strength and liquidity present opportunities to more rapidly advance our core strategy.
Superior Energy is uniquely positioned and extremely strong heading into what appears to be a tough market.
Our ample liquidity position and low debt levels are a tremendous strength of this company.
We’ve been very straightforward in explaining our intended use of free cash since 2013.
First we paid down debt next we began to repurchase stock and then we issued a dividend.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 we halted our share buyback activity.
We believe there are very interesting perhaps transformative opportunities that may develop in 2015 and until we understand the full range of those opportunities we’ve elected to build cash.
We’re operating in interesting times.
Our leadership and employees have worked through downturns in the past.
We know where we need to get our cost structure how important the quality of our products and services are to our customers and how important it is to keep our sites on our longer range objectives.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We’ll open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Jim Wicklund – Credit Suisse.
On a recent tender in the Permian we heard there were 37 companies bidding.
We all know how many private equity pressure pumping companies have started out there in the last couple of years.
I appreciate that you have a very small customer list but I’m just curious you’ve got a lot of people out there I would expect trying to survive and competing against people who are trying to survive.
Can you talk to us about how that looks in the industry? There are a lot of people out there trying to survive and I’m sure there are going to be a lot of people who don’t survive if we stay in the kind of oil price environment that we’re in.
I mean it’s clear that our customers have taken the opportunity in the market to high grade their suppliers and as I said in our comments specifically in the fracturing business we’ll see our market share hold during the course of the year.
Obviously a lower market obviously lower revenue but we’re working for the same customers and we’re preserving our share with those customers so it’s not that those customers are necessarily using as many suppliers in 2015.
I’m sure there are some of the suppliers that are sitting on the sidelines now probably amongst those 37 companies that are trying to bid in the spot market in the Permian basin.
My follow up if I could can you catch us up on what’s happened in the boat business in Southeast Asia and if you mentioned that I apologize? We’re a little bit more than half way through our asset sales in that business.
We tried to sell the business in total I talked about that on our Q3 call and couldn’t find a buyer that we felt like offered a fair valuation so we’ve been in process of selling the assets in that business since about September I guess and that’s the majority of the $150 million that we generated in asset sales.
Assets that were converted to cash during the course of the quarter came from that Southeast Asia boat business.
We’ve still got some of the assets that are out on the market and as Robert commented we think we’ll be completed with that during the first half of 2015.
Your next question comes from Marshall Adkins – Raymond James.
Thanks for the color on the frac side but I wanted to get in a little bit more detail there.
I mean obviously this pull back is unprecedented in our lifetime in terms of the magnitude and how quickly it’s happened.
Help us understand how we should think about that completion business from a pricing and margin perspective near term.
I know it’s not where the ultimate bottom is but it seems like it’s bottoming faster or the pull back is occurring faster and we probably bottom faster.
Is that fair and help us with the magnitude of what we should look for there? I guess that’s fair.
I mean I’m watching the rig count fall every week as you guys are and the pace has been a bit surprising I guess so where it bottoms I guess just depends on whether or not the pace that we’ve seen the decline in the last three weeks continues for the next several weeks.
But I think it’s probably fair to think about the activity hitting bottom maybe it’s sometime late March or maybe it’s in April but I think it’s sooner rather than later for sure.
My comment about pricing would be this those companies that were at a better margin point in certain product lines clearly have the ability to hold their market share better than those companies that were starting at a very low margin point.
This business particularly in fracturing I think has been characterized by the haves and have not during 2014 from a margin standpoint.
I said before we don’t break it out for you so you don’t see it but I am able to see what other people produce from a margin standpoint and where we sit is in a pretty good position.
What I mean by all that is that that gives us the ability to respond in the marketplace when the customers are demanding some price concessions.
We’ve been able to do that and preserve market share whereas some other guys are not going to be able to preserve their market share because they’re going to be cash negative at the kind of prices that exist in the market.
Does that make sense? So basically you have a little more wiggle room thereon frac.
Switching gears on the second question to the drilling products.
The rental tool business typically margins hold up way better than most areas in downturns.
Do you expect it to play out that way this time? Yeah I do.
But make no mistake when you get into a cycle like this similar to the cycle I guess that we saw in 2008/2009 from a magnitude standpoint – I mean you’ll see pressure in the rental tool product line.
Part of what buffers it though is it starts at a margin level that is significantly higher than anything else that we have and so when you reach a bottom in that market due to both lower utilization as well as a bit lower price it’s still on an absolute margin level it’s still pretty good.
Your next question comes from Jeff Spittel – Clarkson Capital Markets.
Maybe if we could follow up on Marshall’s line of questioning Dave about the premium end of the drill pipe business.
Can you help us segregate some of the moving parts between the Gulf of Mexico where it looks like maybe we’re flattish in terms of the rig count outlook and we’ve got some newer rigs coming in versus what’s going on in the onshore markets in the US? We’ve got a fairly even split of revenue in premium drill pipe between US land and offshore.
Offshore may be slightly bigger – I mean Gulf of Mexico might be slightly bigger.
I think what you’ve got to do though is draw that distinction in the Gulf of Mexico.
As we commented in our prepared remarks the shelf is not good.
Activity in the shelf is down it’s been down it’s hard for me to see what really drives that back up in the near term.
Deep water appears to be fairly stable for at least the first half of 2015.
Visibility is not quite as good when we get out to the second half of year.
It does hold up better than the US land market but I certainly don’t want to leave you with the impression that we think it’s going to be a perfect market all year.
Then maybe a big picture question.
You reference some of the core business lines to your building the international expansion strategy around – when you think about how you want the business to evolve over the next couple of years is it a matter of maybe streamlining or divesting some of these more non-core assets? Do you simply devote a disproportionate amount of growth cap ex at those core businesses or is it a really all of the above strategy? That’s a great question I’m really glad that you asked it.
When we think about those core product lines that I mentioned which were drill pipe well test electric line slick line coil tubing coral tubing cementing stimulation and completion tools what’s important about those product lines is their revenue is sticky.
Once you’ve started up those service lines in a country a market in that company may go up and it may go down but there’s day-to-day revenue in each of those product lines.
That’s different from some of the other things that we do.
You think about well control well control is not one of those product or services lines that is going to have sticky revenue it’s going to be lumpy.
They’ll be in there doing a project for a two or three month period and it might go away for six months.
The snubbing business is very similar to that we may be in a snubbing project for a country for a year and then may not go back for two years after that.
It’s not that those product lines are not important to us they are and those are not the kinds of product lines at all that we’d be interesting in divesting.
Instead what we want to do is build long term sticky revenue with those products that I mentioned and then allow things like well control and snubbing and bottom hole assemblies to come to the market when the market is available.
Just to clarify the kinds of things that we have divested and the kinds of things that we will look towards in the future for divestiture are those things that we either think we don’t do a very good job of managing <i>i.e.
</i>Hallin Marine or those things that we think don’t offer us a long term opportunity to improve returns.
Your next question comes from Robin Shoemaker – Keybanc Capital.
You got our attention with your comment about the downturn perhaps creating some transformational opportunities for Superior so I was wondering if what you have in mind here is perhaps acquiring some distressed assets at very low prices or whether you have in mind this big merger that’s about to happen and some divestitures that may come out of that? Just kind of generally what you had in mind and the kind of valuations where you think you might acquire something like that? I don’t know what the range of opportunities will be for us in 2015 I really don’t.
Any of those things that you mentioned could be opportunities for the company and when we reached about a half way point in the fourth quarter and you guys know we’ve been really – our primary deployment of cash and excess of cap ex and M&amp;A in the last few years has been to buy back shares and we reached that halfway point through the fourth quarter and decided just to shut off the share repurchase allow cash to build until we saw what that full range of opportunities may be in 2015.
What I’ve consistently said to people about this it that I really want to understand what the full range of opportunities are so don’t look for us to swing at the first pitch.
We’re going to let the opportunities build and then we’ll go understand them and if we see that full range of opportunities and we think the prices are still too high or the fit is not perfect for us or they’re not additive to our core strategies we may pass on every one of them and then turn around and buy back more shares later on in the year.
It’s a matter of waiting to understand that full range of opportunities before we deploy our cash.
Just on the international side here where you’ve been steadily making progress over the year it looks like this big merger is about to really change the competitive landscape in the international markets and we can see some markets becoming much less competitive than they are today.
So just in terms of your product lines your business what if any kind of real opportunities could you picture coming out of that say in 2016 and beyond? The biggest difference between the international markets and the US market is competition and competitive level.
There are fewer competitors in every international market that exist not just that we participate in but every international market that exists there are fewer competitors than what we see in the US.
There are certain of those countries out there where really the markets are completely satisfied with three or four large integrated oil field services companies.
The fact that one of those is going away clearly presents an opportunity for us to advance the strategy that has been in place for the last five years to achieve international geographic expansion.
Listen competitive landscape being cleared out of a single large competitor is obviously a big advantage for us.
Your next question comes from Blake Hutchinson – Howard Weil.
The first question if we go back to kind of your third quarter thoughts with regard to the potential for international growth with the smattering of contracts awarded in Latin America and India I think there’s a pretty good feeling that ’15 over ’14 might look like a 20% number kind of a reacceleration of growth.
As you think through this with the landscape obviously having changed and probably the growth rates of maybe some of your legacy oriented markets having changed what should be the message we take away from this call in terms of your international growth profile? I think we’d probably all be happy to hear that there’s any growth but try to kind of ballpark your new thoughts on that maybe? I think that what we had hoped for in the way of international growth in 2015 disappeared quite a bit after our call when November and December occurred and oil prices bottomed to where they are now.
Listen I think it would probably bit a bit aggressive to think that we actually have international growth next year in an international market environment that is going to be down by as much as 15% 10% to 15% pick your range.
I think that we will see some growth in some of those core countries that I mention and some of those product lines that I mentioned but what offsets that is the headwinds that we’ll have in the North Sea which is a legacy market for us the headwinds we’ll have in Mexico which has been down the last two years and will probably down even more next year so you’ve got some big markets that are not necessarily the focus of our near term investment but nonetheless are part of our international revenue base that will probably cause international revenue to be pressured next year.
So what does pressure mean? I don’t know that’s probably anywhere between in total being flat to be down by as much as 10%.
I want to understand the competitive landscape out there US DPS business.
I don’t think we pulled back enough to see this happen in the last kind of mini downturn but is there the potential with this sizeable pull back that the drillers themselves are actually sitting on inventory that become competitive with kind of the rental market or have the drillers just gotten so far away from owning any pipe or pipe of a competitive nature that that’s not an issue? I don’t know that we’ve witness any drilling contractor as a competitive for pipe rental.
Either out on the market or just dipping into held in inventories.
Neither one.
I don’t think we’ve seen either one of those at this point.
Your next question comes from Kurt Hallead – RBC Capital Markets.
I just was kind of curious when you look at maybe some of the dynamics around pricing pressures and maybe comparing them to prior cycle periods how do you envision that falling out and how do you envision it may be on a broad basis across your different business segments? Pricing pressure has been significant.
Absolute variance of the pressure is extreme it varies from product line it varies by geography but it’s been significant and consistent.
Any range of magnitudes and anything surprising you? It is varied so much by product line and geography that I don’t know that there’s a conclusion I want to try and lead you to.
You’ve heard pricing commentary from some of the other guys that are out there I don’t know that mine would be any different.
It’s one of those deals when it’s all said and done you’ll kind of know what it was but it’s very difficult to understand impact as it’s happening.
Can you talk about the prospect of using cash for M&amp;A and then specifically [indiscernible] bit more detail on or some commentary about the scalability of your frac business.
I guess in that segment in particular it really comes down to a build versus buy decision and how are you approaching it and how are you thinking about that? You’re exactly right it does come down to a build versus buy decision.
One of the challenges with distressed fracturing companies that will be out there in their assets is that we know those assets require a maintenance capital investment that is equivalent to about 50% of their original value within about five years.
So you think about distressed fracturing assets that may come on the market and would you be willing to pay $0.50 on the dollar to those and the answer is probably no.
Because I know I’m going to have to make an equivalent investment just to put those assets in working condition over the course of the first year or two that you own them.
It just depends on what happens to owners or banks’ expectations as we go forward.
If those owners or banks have an expectation of capturing anything close to 75% or 80% of asset value then we’re probably not a good company to call.
But if they fall into a range that’s significantly lower than that then it may be something that we entertain.
Your next question comes from the line of John Daniel – Simmons &amp; Company.
This might sound like an offensive question so I apologize in advance but you mentioned record revenue and margins or profits at least in the second half for the frac business.
As we look then at the results of the entire segment does that mean the results for the work over and trucking business were particular bad in the second half and then what’s the outlook for those segments? The answer is no.
We did have as Robert mentioned in his comment we had some insurance cost that impacted the well service rig business negatively during the course of the fourth quarter but the water business is actually usually a little better in Q4 than it is in Q3 because we get the benefit of heating revenue.
Overall I’d say revenue wise it was about flat though so not a lot of change on the top line in the fluid business and service rig business.
Also the fracturing business.
I mean our commentary the fracturing business really didn’t change a lot from Q3 to Q4 either.
You may get a better look if you look at it year-over-year.
You guys didn’t break out the segment gross margins this quarter.
Is that something you’re suspending or will that be point in 10K/10Q filings going forward? It’s suspended.
We don’t show that breakout anywhere in our financial statements.
It was something that we didn’t think was necessary anymore.
You can grab it from any of our filings.
It’s still in our filings.
The information is there.
It will be in the filings? The ability to get the information to get the gross margins will be in the filings to be specific.
Just one follow on and you kind of answered this with Kurt’s question but I just want to ask you but you guys because of your own equipment design for the frac equipment just by having your own design does that limit any desire to buy someone else’s stuff? Just what is the process of converting a Surefire or Stewart &amp; Stevenson or NOV design unit to what you guys have? Really it’s a difference in a trailer.
The engine transmission and pump are all basically the same.
We do have a different trailer design.
We designed those units so that there’s space between the engine transmission and pump so that we can carry out a bit higher degree of maintenance on site.
But think about that the primary investment that goes into a fracturing trailer is the engine transmission and pump.
So that’s not a gating item here? Well it’s not a gating item but at a value right.
There’s a cost of a new trailer there’s a cost of new controls that go on that unit that you’d need to invest for it to be able to communicate with everything else that you have.
I just think you have to factor it in total what you’d be willing to pay for somebody else’s assets.
Kind of my point would you be willing to pay $0.50 on a dollar? Probably not it’s got to be something less than that to accommodate those other factors and to entice me.
We’re going to have fracturing equipment that is parked on the fence during 2015.
Do I want to buy somebody else’s that’s going to be parked on the fence? I’ve got to be enticed to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Sill – Global Hunter Securities.
The world has definitely changed both in North America and internationally with the drop in commodity prices.
I was wondering how a $50 to $70 oil world impacts where and what kind of international growth you’re looking at versus where we were six months ago when oil was $100 and it all looked good? Our overall thoughts on top line growth for international clearly changed.
As I commented before if you had asked me six months ago what I thought about our prospects for 2015 I would have told you that we could see international growth in ’15 versus ’14 of 15% to 20%.
Clearly the drop in commodity prices change our overall thought of that top line growth.
What has not changed is our thought about the core countries that we’ve been focusing for investment and we’ve been telling you guys about how we think about the international landscape for the last several years.
We use this definition of core countries which for us includes Argentina Brazil Columbia Indonesia India Malaysia Australia and Saudi Arabia those are the places we’ve focused investment those are the places we still feel good about growth even in the type of oil price environment that we’re in.
They’re all large mature markets.
They may not be growing the same way they were last year but they’re all large and mature markets that will continue to have significant levels of activity.
I guess as a follow on to that obviously Argentina has got a shale play which makes it similar if they actually get the governor out of the way and go to manufacturing.
Australia possibly I’m not so sure about Brazil Indonesia and then Saudi Arabia obviously has the cheapest oil in the world so I guess your view is that with lower oil prices these guys are all still competitive and there’s really not that many other places where you could go where the whole shale manufacturing concept would be transferrable? It’s not all around shale and you won’t find a bigger believer in the opportunities for global shale than me I’m just not sure that they all happen in my lifetime.
But as Argentina is a good example Argentina does clearly have what appears to be a very interesting shale in Vaca Muerta.
But I’ll tell you this the activity in the Argentine shale last year was minimal and yet there were in excess of 100 rigs that were working in the market so I mean it’s a big market.
The Neuquen basin as well as northern Argentina and southern Argentina are places that we’ve been developing hydrocarbon as an industry for 50 years.
So even without the shale Argentina is an interesting market.
Your next question comes from Matthew Marietta – Stephens Inc.
I wanted to hit on the production services businesses.
There seems to be a degree of optimism out there in the well service rig business primarily but as you look across the production service offerings in markets the variety of equipment what’s your outlook there and can you help us maybe differentiate different trends across these different sub segments or offerings? Yes sure.
Specifically in production services the largest product line is coiled tubing.
The US coil tubing business has not been in a very good position for the last couple of years and it’s not going to be in a very good position in 2015.
We’ve stacked assets in that business over the course of the last couple of years and I’m sure we’re going to stack more assets during 2015.
Coiled tubing in the US has become a completion oriented business.
Outside of the US it’s still a production maintenance operation.
But listen most of our coil tubing assets are in the US.
Most of the other product lines that are in that segment are related to production maintenance and so anything that’s production maintenance oriented those dollars and spend from our customers will be down next year but they’re probably not down as much as drilling and completion spend.
I think you can say the same thing about well service rigs.
I mean the majority of revenue that we generate on a well service rig is in our production oriented activity.
It’s not that they’re not down next year they will be but is it likely to hold up better than something that’s specifically related to a drilling rig or a completions job? The answer is yes it will hold up better.
Are you experiencing any input cost deflation yet across any of the different business segments or any deflationary pressures on new equipment orders and do you foresee that happening which may make new build organic growth more attractive versus acquisitions and what’s your sense on that side? I don’t know that we have a whole lot of new build orders that are out there.
Most of the money that we’re spending right now from a capital standpoint is in the area of maintenance.
But I don’t really expect that our capital suppliers are going to be willing to offer up the same kinds of price concessions that we’re giving to our customers in that so much of what we buy out there related to building equipment is steal.
Although I think it’s conceivable that over time we see steel prices come down we have not seen that as yet.
The other part of your question though our suppliers of consumables and some of the day-to-day things that we use of course we’re putting tremendous pressure on those guys to bring our costs down in the same way that our customers are putting pressure on us.
Is that going to involve looking at any potential existing contracts and reworking along those lines? I don’t know of any specifically that involve contracts but look we’re going to look to our suppliers the same way our customers look to us.
Customers are looking to companies that have contracts right now and are saying “Can you work with us?” I’m sure we’d look at contracts with suppliers the same way.
Your next question comes from Daniel Burke – Johnson &amp; Rice.
When you look at that core group of pumping customers that you have do you have a sense for whether their trend and completion spend this year will hold up better than industry trend or will it be about the same or worse just as we try and think about what it pretenses for your activity level.
I don’t know I think you’re probably right in the middle of the pack.
Some of them will probably be a little bit more and some of them will be a little bit less but I would not think of that customer base as necessarily protecting us from the overall market down turn.
One thing we have witnessed from that group of customers is that they do not seem to be decreasing their completion intensity in order to drive a better cost to what they’re doing.
We’re still seeing the same numbers of stages the same lateral link and he same profit volumes per well.
As a follow up maybe excluding pumping we talked about that and excluding the DPS business and the US onshore market just to put a finer point on it the other businesses within C&amp;W production services and US land how easy will it be to hold margins above cash breakeven levels looking towards Q2/Q3 this year? A lot of it depends on the product line and the geographic area because that’s really dictating a lot who is seeing the most price pressure right.
Clearly as utilization levels are down you can control your costs by parking equipment.
In some of those product lines we’re going to have greater latitude to maintain our share because the margins are higher.
In some of the product lines where margins are very low that’s not going to be something we can do.
The way I think about it is if you start at a low margin point you’re probably going to wind up with lower market share.
If you started at a higher margin point then you’re probably going to be able to hold you market share and maybe gain.
There’s a lot of variance between the overall product lines that we have.
I think in general though the way I think about this is that the quality of service we provide is at a higher end as I think about the full range of competitors that are out there so we have seen a lot of cases where we wind up being the winner from a utilization standpoint when customers are dropping the number of suppliers that they have providing any particular service.
Your next question comes from Scott Levine – Imperial Capital LLC.
I can appreciate you said it’s kind of early to make distinct definitive calls regarding pricing across service lines this early but I would ask you does anything surprise you with regard to what you’ve seen thus far during the past few months in the slow down as it relates to the US onshore market or anything you think investors would find surprising in terms of the market’s response in the last few months? I don’t know that you’d find it surprising at this point because I think it’s been discussed by others.
But the suddenness and magnitude of the ask from the customer on the pricing side was – it happened very rapidly.
This was not a slow dance that drug out through negotiations over a period of three or four months.
It was a sudden ask and a sudden request for response probably more so than I’ve seen at any other point in my career.
In December and the early part of January this was happening where every day just felt very volatile from a customer ask standpoint.
I don’t know that I’ve seen it quite like that in the past.
Just a quick follow up on the Gulf of Mexico your comments at the outset there if you could remind us what portion of your business is tied to call it the shallow water versus deep if possible? Do your comments – are you just looking to highlight a secular trend you’ve seen evolve or is that pretend any type of strategic action on your part? I don’t think it pretends any strategic action on our part.
We’ve taken strategic action in the shelf over the course of the last few years.
You may recall we sold our lift boat business in 2012 which was a big part of our revenue base on the shelf.
The product lines that we generate revenue from today on the shelf include things that are end of life such as plug and abandonment or production maintenance for the most part.
We do have a bit of drilling products and services exposure when there’s drilling taking place and we’ve got a bit of completions but I’d say the bulk of our revenue on the shelf has been things like coiled tubing case toll wire lines slick line and snubbing and so production and production maintenance oriented type of activities.
Overall of our total Gulf of Mexico revenue mix historically the shelf has represented kind of 60% to 70% of the overall revenue mix.
I can tell you in the second half of 2014 it was probably less than half and so the deep water revenue has actually been growing and you can see that on our drilling and products service revenue from 2013 to 2014 which was actually up despite the fact that the shelf was down.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Darren Gacicia – Guggenheim Securities LLC.
I was curious to hear that you said services [indiscernible] tend to be per well it stayed kind of constant.
When you talk to clients with a focus on well cost is that really the focus of their discussion in terms of what they’re trying to do? Are they mainly trying to get that cost down just in pricing or is the margin you think that there could be a change in service intensity per well as they maybe kind of figure out different ways of doing things? I think it’s more the latter.
Clearly they’re looking for pricing concessions there’s no question about that and we have seen some operators that have looked to optimize from a cost standpoint in proppant and find ways to get the lowest cost proppant that they can.
But the total volumes the total length of lateral the total number of stages we’ve not seen any of our customers make changes.
Please keep in mind in our fracturing business we’ve got a fairly short customer list and they tend to be the companies that are already the more efficient horizontal well operators and they also tend to be customers that have maybe better balance sheets.
Sort of unrelated I noticed the drill pipe rentals internationally were down.
I know people have kind of poked around the topic.
When I think about looking at this year and you kind of maybe looking at your visibility in the rental business can you give me a little sense of what that visibility is and maybe kind of how the shape of the quarters come about? We were down a little bit in Q4 on the rental side in the North Sea which is kind of a legacy market for us.
I think overall that our international rental tools will see the same kind of pressure that we see in the overall international market next year.
We do lean a little bit more towards offshore in that business than we do land and so whatever your thoughts are on international offshore rig count during the year our drilling products and services business change will probably be a reflection of that.
It seems like budgets are still kind of influx.
If you looked at your visibility last year versus this year would you say it’s a lot less or a little bit less or about the same as you kind of went and looked out? I can make this universal comment there is no question that visibility this year is more difficult than last year no question.
You guys see the rig count it is very difficult to get good vision.
It’s been very difficult.
Getting a little bit better as we speak in the latter half in February to have an understanding what our customer plans are but you guys saw the headlines during the month of January and early February every day our customers were lowering budgets.
Every day they were lowering expectations and so it’s been very difficult to make a good prediction for what the total year looks like.
We get a lot better information out of the public company guys in the US than we do internationally.
Internationally that information is even harder to understand.
So there’s no comparison.
Your next question comes from Matthew Marietta – Stephens Inc.
Earlier you hit on acquisitions from a general strategy perspective.
Are there any specific prior examples of acquisitions that may highlight what would and what wouldn’t make sense or criteria that must be met as you go down that road? We’ve done all kinds of acquisitions.
The ones that we’ve done over the last few years have been mainly these kind of focused targeted individual country international acquisitions that have helped us to kind of accelerate to build out a footprint like the one we did in Argentina.
I think it’s about five in total we’ve done over the last three years in these international markets like the one in India that we closed back in the second half of 2014.
We did a pretty good helpful acquisition in 2010 out of a Department of Justice mandated asset sale that put us in the completions business that’s been very successful for us and of course what we bought was a US business that we’ve been able to successfully expand into international markets in the last several years.
Listen I don’t know what’s out there in 2015.
It could be any one of those things or something that I’m not even thinking about.
That’s the whole idea of preserving cash we’ll wait to understand what the opportunities are and then make some decisions.
Your next question comes from B.
Chase Mulvehill – SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the 24 hour market for pumping.
What percentage of US horsepower as an industry do you think is doing 24 hour work? That’s a great question.
I have no idea.
I know that for the customers we’re working for we’re working 24/7 with ever frac fleet that we have and at this point we expect that to continue throughout the year.
When we saw the slowdown in spending in 2012 we had a lot of operators that deliberately slowed down and deliberately gave up efficiency by going from seven to five days and I don’t think that’s a driver in this market today.
They’re ratcheting back their spending but what they spend they want to drive 100% efficiency from.
At least what I see in our customers but I’m sure there’s some people out there that are working five days.
Not everybody has been working 24/7 in 2014 but I have no idea what the mix in the market would be.
I imagine doing 24 hour work requires basically to have your supply chain in order and so some of these smaller players can’t compete right for 24 hour work right? Is that a fair assumption? I think that for a lot of reasons we built our fracturing business around horizontal wells and around 24 hour operations and a lot of our competitors did not.
Clearly the smaller guys that don’t have the type of efficiency and intelligence built into their supply chain would struggle to do that.
Are you seeing any bundling for 24 hour services? If so what service are you bundling? I don’t know that I’ve heard of any specific bundling requests here recently.
That doesn’t seem to be an immediate trend.
Wrapping up the 24 hour would you think that 24 hour work would be down in line with the overall market declines or would it be down less? No I think it’s down in line.
It’s a function of where or not the operator has done the things that they need to do in their organization to provide supply chain for 24 hour operations and so those that have that capability I’m sure will continue to run 24/7 albeit with less overall spend and fewer rigs and fewer frac plates.
What I’m hearing is 24 hour work will be down in line with the market but it sounds like you have less competition when you’re bidding on that work because the small players cannot really bid on it.
Is that fair? I think that’s fair and for the customers we’re working for it’s not like we’re out there bidding every day.
These are customers we reach our negotiations with and then move forward and they’re not looking to change.
The last one decrementals can you talk to decrementals for DPS onshore completion and production services just maybe for 1Q or you can talk for 2015 whichever one you would like to? Listen I talked a lot about the confidence we have in our managers and our managers have been and will continue to be responsive to reducing our cost structure as revenue and pricing contract.
My expectation is that the leadership we have in the field is going to allow us to produce decrementals that are in line or better from what you see from industry.
Industry being [Halbert] and [indiscernible] those guys for North America and international or industry being – Yes sure the collective industry everybody that is out there competitors.
This concludes today’s question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing remarks.
That’s all we’ve got.
Thanks for joining us today.
This does conclude todays’ teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Superior Energy Services' First Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
With me today are Superior's President and CEO Dave Dunlap and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
During this call management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Paul and welcome to everyone listening to our call this morning.
I'll review first quarter activity.
Robert will discuss the segment results.
And I'll share some color on our outlook before turning the call over to Q&amp;A.
For the first quarter of 2015 Superior Energy generated revenue of $917 million EBITDA of $184 million and a loss from continuing operations of $1.5 million or $0.01 per share.
Beginning in December and throughout the first quarter our customers began to aggressively cut oil and gas drilling and completion activity as they substantially reduced their capital expenditure levels.
Pricing of services also declined sharply over this period.
While this behavior was expected following the oil price collapse during the fourth quarter it has been challenging to adjust our operations and cost structure at the same pace with which rigs were released and activity slowed.
With that said I'm very pleased with the way that our leadership has responded to the challenge.
We have taken aggressive cost reduction measures during the first quarter.
And we'll further adjust our cost base as the year progresses.
Our efforts to this point include balancing our workforce head count salaries and wages with our current activity levels; exiting locations we don't believe can generate acceptable returns in this environment; and identifying further opportunities to compress overhead.
We made great strides in eliminating costs from our business and these efforts will continue.
We aren't waiting for the market to get better.
We're actively altering the cost structure of our business so we can be competitive in a smaller market.
Win market share as our weaker competitors stumble and be a partner of choice for new and existing customers as activity levels increase in a more balanced market.
The fragmented U.S.
land market has borne the brunt of activity declines.
And it may be some time until there is a meaningful service recovery to speak of in North America.
With that in mind our operational focus is on maintaining work with the customers that we were working for in the fourth quarter last year.
Said differently we are preserving market share with our best customers.
We will not pursue breakeven or worse business with new customers and wear out equipment for the sake of keeping it active.
Oil and gas prices need to recover and operators need to realize cost and efficiency gains before increasing activity levels.
When that occurs service quality will become a priority and we will have well-maintained equipment ready to deploy with minimal capital outlays required.
In the event a recovery happens in the near term the combination of our structural cost reductions and available capacity should equate to strong operating leverage.
Financially our operating discipline has resulted in a very strong balance sheet good liquidity and free cash flow.
As a result we are well positioned to pursue acquisitions as they present themselves over the course of the year.
I mentioned on our last conference call that we would preserve cash and liquidity until we have a clear understanding of acquisition opportunities that become available.
Nothing has changed.
We will be diligent and disciplined in our acquisition strategy.
And if nothing meets our criteria for acquisition we will seek the best alternatives available for using our cash as we have in the past.
The second quarter of 2015 is likely to be worse than the first quarter as the entire period will be impacted by the full effect of reduced activity and pricing which began in earnest during the first quarter.
We believe the longer the current environment persists the more likely that larger diversified service providers with strong financial capabilities and geographic reach will outperform smaller concentrated providers who will increasingly find it difficult to maintain market share and competitive footing in a smaller market.
With that I'll turn the call over Robert.
Treasurer &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thank you Dave.
As I review each operating segment I will make comparisons to the fourth quarter of 2014.
Drilling Products and Services segment's revenues decreased 16% and income from operations decreased 40% to $199 million and $47 million respectively.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 29% to $62 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 6% to $87 million.
And International revenue decreased 14% to $50 million.
Revenue decreases in this segment are mostly entirely attributable to reduced levels of activity and pricing pressure across most product lines.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue of $351 million was lower by 25% and the segment recorded a loss from operation of $1 million down from income from operations of $41 million.
This segment was impacted significantly during the quarter by rapid decreases in oil and gas drilling and completion activity.
Utilization and pricing moved downward across all product lines in this segment in conjunction with the approximate 800 rig decline in the U.S.
rig count during the quarter.
Our Production Services segment revenue decreased 27% to $252 million which resulted in a loss from operations of $23 million.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 35% to $145 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 10% to $26 million.
And the International revenue decreased 10% to $81 million.
The primary drivers for decreased revenues in these segments are attributable to the rapid deterioration in the North America land market.
Our coil tubing fishing pressure control tools and slickline product lines all experienced intense activity and pricing related declines.
The coil tubing business is especially challenged as a result of significant oversupply and a persistently weak natural gas market.
This is an example of a business where we are reducing our cost structure to ensure that it is appropriately sized for the market.
Internationally these product lines fared better and results for the quarter were consistent with our expectations given a slowing activity environment and pricing pressure.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue was $115 million an 11% decrease from the fourth quarter leading to an operating loss of $1 million.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 25% to $18 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 2% to $72 million.
And the International revenue decreased 20% to $25 million.
The operating loss in Technical Solution was due to the rapid decline of commodity prices and in the project oriented nature of the product lines in this segment.
Sequential financial comparison is impacted by a positive fourth quarter adjustment to DD&amp;A associated with our oil and gas property and higher fourth quarter revenues in our Marine technical services product line related to the timing of project charges to our customer.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity.
Our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.46 times and our debt-to-capital ratio is 28.9%.
Our total debt at quarter-end was $1.6 billion.
Free cash flow of $111 million after normal course of business capital expenditures for the quarter of $127 million resulted from improvements in working capital capital spending discipline and a focus on operational quality.
In addition to the normal course of business capital expenditures the company spent approximately $67 million to buy out the leases of two vessels which are currently for sale.
That amount includes the extinguishment of a $21 million capital lease obligation associated with one of the vessels.
We expect to sell these vessels for approximately same price that we paid for them.
Ownership of these vessels reduces the complexity of the sales process and eliminates approximately $2.5 million of lease payments per quarter until they are sold which we expect will happen in 2015.
There were no shares repurchased during the quarter.
Our cash balance grew by $22 million during the quarter and has continued to build during the second quarter.
From a modeling perspective for the second quarter we believe G&amp;A expense should remain relatively unchanged and should be in the neighborhood of $150 million.
First quarter G&amp;A of $150 million was below expectation as the organization responded quickly to the declining activity and was successful in reducing expense in this category.
With respect to DD&amp;A we believe a range of $162 million to $166 million in the second quarter of 2015 reflects an appropriate level of expense and is consistent with the first quarter.
Second quarter interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Our effective income tax rate was 37% for the quarter and we would expect it to stay in that range during the second quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Robert.
There are two primary themes unfolding in the oilfield services industry.
First is an immediate need to alter cost structure to compete in the shrinking oilfield services market we are now serving.
Second the overcapacity of equipment particularly in North America will present obstacles to profitability and product lines such as coiled tubing and horizontal well fracturing that virtually all market participants will struggle with.
At Superior Energy our cost reduction efforts commenced as soon as customer activity began to soften.
Typically we would expect head count reductions to occur well ahead of wage reductions.
To date labor costs have responded concurrently with pricing concessions we have made to our customers.
This is definitely occurring earlier in this cycle than we expected based on previous downturns.
We attribute this to a combination of the pace of the downturn as well as the proximity of many workers to the economics of the services they are providing.
The bottom line is that after several years of spending growth and areas with insufficient oil and gas service infrastructure to support it employee related expenses such as travel lodging and per diem expenses to name a few had grown to a much higher proportion of total costs than historical averages.
As the shale revolution moves out of its infancy as consolidation occurs and development programs mature we should be able to push inflation and inefficiency that has accompanied the explosion in activity in North America out of the system.
Labor has and will continue to relocate to these maturing basins.
As this happens the expenses associated with a large transient workforce should moderate.
This would represent a change to our cost structure that should be long-lasting and help us move these expenses back in line with historical averages.
This will happen over time and will be easier to accomplish for larger well-capitalized and diversified operators.
We believe we meet this criteria and are well positioned to improve our cost structure and margins in a more balanced market.
As we are observing during this reporting season North America has weakened substantially relative to international markets.
Coiled tubing and horizontal well fracturing particularly have seen meaningful market shrinkage and substantial margin erosion.
The coiled tubing businesses has been severely impacted by this downturn and faces structural challenges going forward.
With pricing for coiled tubing alternatives coming down the size of the coiled tubing market in North America is at risk.
With high levels of competition and a weak market that isn't likely to get better in the near term our approach has been to downsize our fleet and maintain idled equipment to facilitate operating leverage should the market expand.
We'll also continue to transfer equipment to alternate markets internationally and put it to work.
The horizontal well fracturing market has also been affected by too much equipment pricing erosion and irrational behavior from smaller weaker competitors all of which has negatively impacted margins.
These competitors are working at pricing levels we can't justify.
And many are delivering marginal execution quality.
That behavior doesn't create opportunities to gain market share and maintain profitability.
We have the wherewithal to maintain our equipment and focus on our existing client base and we'll do just that.
As the competitive landscape regains a semblance of balance we'll pursue market share and add to our track record of delivering high quality execution for our customers.
Internationally we continue to progress our objective of focused geographic and product line expansion.
In Argentina we've begun coiled tubing operations and will deploy additional assets transferred from the U.S.
during the course of 2015.
Drill pipe rentals in Argentina also gained traction during the first quarter.
Coiled tubing and stimulation equipment is being transferred to India and should be in position to begin work during the second half of 2015.
I like what I see in India and believe we'll have further opportunities to expand in the future.
Looking at our existing product lines in core international geographies completion tool revenue in Indonesia was lower during the quarter as project revenue associated with activity in the fourth quarter was not repeated in Q1 which isn't unusual for this product line.
In Brazil onshore stimulation revenue was lower as this product line which was impacted by a general reduction in oilfield activity corresponding with lower oil and gas prices.
We still expect international spending to be down 10% to 15% in 2015 but believe that our revenue in core countries will outperform the overall market.
Gulf of Mexico revenue was the least impacted of our geographic areas on a sequential basis.
Although revenue will take another moderate step down in Q2 as a result of a full quarter impact of activity and pricing declines we are gaining confidence that the Gulf of Mexico market holds steady in the second half of 2015.
Clearly geographic diversity is an attribute of Superior in this difficult market environment.
Against the backdrop of declining commodity prices and customer spending is a significant merger of our two largest competitors.
This combination will create ripples throughout our industry and present opportunities around the world to pursue market share introduce new product lines to existing markets and enter new geographic areas.
Regardless of what happens in North America the international market is losing a major competitor.
And we believe we will be a direct beneficiary of this change in the marketplace.
Over the near term we are reacting as quickly as possible to the dynamics of the market and our customers' behavior.
Until the market stabilizes it is difficult to make longer term structural adjustments.
When that does occur our emphasis will be on altering our business through reduced overhead appropriate structuring of our segments and continuing to improve the efficiency of our business.
This will allow us to be profitable.
Even in a smaller balanced market this isn't going to be easy.
But we have the right people from the executive team all the way out to the field level to take every opportunity this downturn presents and improve our competitive position.
And with that we'll open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
We also ask that you please limit your questions to one question and one follow-up only.
Our first question comes from Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Your line is live.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Dave the – you gave us some good detail on the cost reductions.
I'm just curious could you give us a little more color on the timing of those? Are they – do you have them all in place in the second quarter? Does it go into the third quarter and beyond? And how much of it is labor versus vendor type cost reductions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Marshall.
So I mean during the course of the first quarter most of our cost reductions were related to labor.
Not all just in head count as I mentioned.
Also in wages and those employee-related costs travel per diem lodging all of those things.
But I'd say the bulk of the cost reductions that we experienced during the first quarter were related to labor.
I mean we did take actions to close some facilities.
We'll be continuing to do that as we right-size the business for current market environment.
We got some work done on G&amp;A which was helpful kind of later in the quarter.
But we'll continue to work on G&amp;A cost as the year progresses.
So I mean what you see in a Q1 result certainly doesn't bake in all of the cost reduction efforts that we had during the course of the first quarter nor are we finished.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
The follow-up.
I guess on those costs we – I didn't see a lot of or any one-time charges you pulled out whereas most of your larger cap peers resorted the usual smoke and mirrors to see massive charges that of course we analysts pull out.
And that way they made their numbers.
You seem to have made your numbers without doing that.
Did I miss something? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I don't think you did.
We try to avoid smoke and mirrors.
I think that there is – we have done everything that we can to minimize the cost associated with the reductions that have taken place.
And listen this is cash.
It's all about preserving shareholder value.
And from my standpoint we need to cut cost.
And we'd like to expend as little of our funds as we have to in order to carry that out.
And I think that so far we've done it.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you very much Dave.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just wanted to take a moment to address your commentary regarding your strategy here to preserve market share with your good customers from 4Q stack equipment maintain it and have it ready to deploy in the event of an upturn.
Is that – I mean up until now I think you've kind of just applied that to pressure pumping.
Hear from your commentary that certainly coiled tubing would fall in that category.
Is that now just a kind of a blanket statement for the U.S.
franchise? Or – and kind of everything has hit a margin standpoint where it has triggered that reaction? Or are still facets of the business where you're kind of letting local management handle that decision? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean we leave a lot of these decisions up to local management.
And I think the message that we're hearing from the field and certainly the field is hearing from us is that wearing out assets that don't make money doesn't make a lot of sense.
And so we want to continue to service those customers that we have serviced in the past.
We're not out seeking new customers or gains in market share in business lines where we – that are not additive to the bottom line today.
And unfortunately the way pricing has regressed over the course of the last four months or five months there's not a lot of product lines where we are making much money today.
Right? Inc.</span></strong> Right.
I guess following up on your international commentary there were some kind of one-time callouts of hits in Technical Services and as well as maybe a little bit of a disappointment in the pace of activity in Brazil.
I would also assume that the North Sea I guess took a big hit in the period.
And having absorbed some kind of one-time issues and taking your year-over-year commentary would somewhere in the $150 million kind of quarterly revenue run rate be a logical way to think through the contribution from international over the course of the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I mean I think our comments about international revenue from a forward-looking standpoint are really kind of consistent with what we said last quarter which we expected international to be down around 10% or 15%.
And I think our belief at this point is that that prediction will hold true.
And so a lot of the reduction that we expected in international happened in the quarter happened early in the quarter.
And I think we're selling into kind of a run rate internationally that we can expect to see going forward.
So I don't know if I answered your question perfectly but that's the way we see it.
Inc.</span></strong> No.
I think that the gist of it was that we'd kind of absorbed a lot of the pain early and we're settling to that run rate.
So I appreciate that.
That's great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Inc.</span></strong> I'll turn it back.
And our next question comes from Jeff Spittel with Clarksons Plateau Securities.
Thanks.
Morning Dave.
Morning fellas.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jeff.
Dave you referenced the opportunity internationally with the merger between a couple of the larger competitors.
Could you give us a sense of how quickly those conversations about that opportunity come to fruition with the customers? Or does it happen now proactively? Or do you have to wait until the deal closes? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think it's happening a little bit differently with customers in different parts of the world.
I would say at this point it's still conversational.
And I would really expect that – so much international business is done on a contractual basis.
And where you've got multiyear contracts in many cases.
So I don't look for any significant impact just as a result of that combination during 2015.
For me it is longer term than that.
It's a 2016 2017 and 2018 story.
And it's really not different.
It's not driving our strategy any differently internationally.
It's basically just putting us in a position where some of the things that we would be doing from a growth standpoint have the opportunity to be accelerated a bit.
But I don't think you should expect to see much in the way of results of that during 2015.
Sure that makes sense.
And maybe a big picture question.
I think we touched on last quarter building out the international expansion around the core businesses and then filling in with the complementary businesses.
As the business evolves and you move Superior up the food chain globally where does technology development fit in there when you look at your portfolio versus some of your larger peers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a great question.
I mean I think in general what we see internationally is a bit more emphasis on technical service partners with service companies than what we see in the U.S.
And so all of the product lines actually as time goes on will continue to have development and the technology development requirements which are driven by international customers.
And I feel good about our ability to respond to that.
We do have certain product lines where those technology efforts are more intense.
And probably the one that fits that category the best is in completion tools which for us today are sand control completion tools.
And we've got an R&amp;D component of that business which is constantly having to develop new technology in order to help our customers solve their evolving technical challenges.
But all of them internationally will have an element of technical development associated with them.
Appreciate the color Dave.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from Ken Sill with Global Hunter Securities.
Yeah.
Good morning Dave.
God.
The more you talk the more questions I have.
I'm kind of surprised at that comment that you think that international has seen most of the worst already.
That wouldn't be what you'd typically expect given spending patterns there.
Is that kind of more unique to Superior in the markets that you are in? Or is it something you think has more application to the industry as a whole? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean maybe it has more application to us.
I don't know.
I mean we don't participate in every one of the international markets and I think some of the markets that probably continue to have some downward pull to them as the year progresses places like Russia or perhaps Mexico or places that we either don't participate at all or don't participate in a very significant way.
So it may have to do with the countries we participate in.
I know that in the places that we are active we saw activity decline.
And we saw what I would describe as some moderate pricing pressure during the quarter.
And things seem to have settled out since then.
And that's probably as much as anything what's driving our outlook commentary regarding international.
Okay.
And then one of the areas you guys are moving into that you're very optimistic about that you mentioned was India.
And I was wondering if you could give us a little more clarity into how you see that opportunity evolving? Is that primarily an offshore play? Or do you think India is ever going to make a move to develop an onshore program also? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well India historically has had both an onshore and an offshore market.
And in fact our starting point is onshore.
We did a small acquisition there in the second half of 2014 that's our launching pad.
It's a cased hole wireline predominantly in the well test business.
But it's a good franchise and one that's well respected in the land marketplace.
And so we're adding product line to it.
I think that it ultimately will expand into the offshore market.
We have a product line which certainly fits very well there.
And I know our completion tool guys have spent some time in India here recently.
So...
I mean can you give us an idea of just how big that market is now versus what you see the potential to be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah so I mean for us it's under...
Not a very important market in the world.
(28:31) Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> For us it's under $20 million in revenue.
I mean I don't think that India has near term the same kind of market potential that we have in Argentina for instance.
But I can certainly see India over the course of say a four- or five-year growth period being something that is in excess of a $40 million or $50 million country for us.
Now that doesn't sound like a lot within the context of what we are.
But this is about adding steady and reliable revenue and earnings sources in a lot of different countries.
And it's just another spoke in the wheel.
All right.
Thank you.
I let somebody else ask the next question.
Your next question comes from Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for letting me in the queue.
Real quick on the onshore completion market in your segment.
What were exit rate margins for the segment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know we specifically cited exit rate margins in any of our comment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And I take it that you don't want to.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
I mean listen one thing you got to understand Chase and we've tried to be really cautious about this and we'll continue to be cautious about it.
It's not like we dropped and are at a steady state.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And so anything that I give you on exit rate if it caused you to believe well okay that's where Q2 is going to lie is probably misleading.
I mean just look at the rig count.
Rig counts continued to trickle down.
And we think it continues to trickle down during the course of the quarter.
Pricing pressure continues to be in the marketplace.
And although the pace of pricing pressure has certainly slowed down some since February it's still out there.
I mean you still got a market that's probably got 50% more capacity than it needs.
And a lot of small competitors are trying to make payroll.
So I just want to – I would prefer not to give you exit rate data points that mislead you about what the second quarter or rest of the year may look like.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
So can we talk about pressure pumping real quick? Your onshore business at least did – it surprised versus my expectations.
And I'm trying – so if you think about pressure pumping revenues how much were pressure pumping revenues down sequentially? And then kind of can you frame kind of what pressure pumping margins were in the first quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So pressure pumping revenue was down think in the range of 25% to 30%.
From a margin standpoint pressure pumping – and I don't think we're any different than anybody else.
Pressure pumping margins were also probably more impacted by pricing than any other product line.
We think overall pressure pumping pricing was probably down once again about 20% during the course of the quarter.
We were still at a positive margin in pressure pumping in total for the quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And you're talking EBIT right? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
But from an operating income standpoint we were not negative in the quarter.
How's that? Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And let's see last one.
Are you seeing customers kind of move away from 24-hour ops in pressure pumping? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well this is interesting.
I mean there's certainly some interesting and unusual behavior that we're seeing with customers over the last few months.
I told you guys when we reported Q4 and at the time we reported Q4 everything that we had was working 24/7.
I can't say that today.
I mean we've seen customers that have requested that we go – move off of 24/7 schedules.
We've had some that want to stay on 24/7 but only five days a week.
And we've got some customers that are preferring to go well-to-well.
So the interesting thing about this is that when you do that you're giving up some efficiency.
And so it has been fairly rare in our industry that we've seen customers that have deliberately avoided being 100% efficient or operating at maximum efficiency.
We saw some of this in 2012 in the second half of the year you may recall.
And we're starting to see some of those same things creep into the market today where I guess they're looking at their overall spending plans and realizing that they have gained efficiency and don't want to exceed their budgets.
So that has crept into the marketplace.
I mean I gave you a long answer to your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're not operating all of our fleets at 24x7 though.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thanks Dave.
War Eagle.
Our next question comes from Byron Pope with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Byron.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Dave as it relates to the Drilling Products and Services segment I realize it's a fairly high fixed cost business.
So I'm just trying think through the geographic components.
I would assume that the U.S.
onshore part of DPS continues to trend down with activity.
But I tend to think that the Gulf of Mexico and international parts of that segment as being more resilient.
So could you just share your thoughts on how you see the outlook for that segment among the three geographic regions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No problem.
Just to correct something you said it's not a high fixed cost business it's a low fixed cost business which is part of the challenge when you see the kind of revenue deterioration that we have.
There's not a lot to cut in the way of cost.
It's not a very labor intensive business.
And so when as...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yeah that's what I was (34:05) thinking.
Sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
I thought you probably just misspoke.
It's – so I guess in essence we don't have the same kind of cost reduction opportunities variable cost reduction opportunities in the rental tool business that we have in our more service intensive businesses.
And clearly what we've seen is activity decline demand decline in the North American land market to a lesser extent internationally.
And once again to a lesser extent in the Gulf of Mexico.
But I mean those rental businesses that operate at very high margins are going to have very high decrementals when the revenue comes down.
I don't know that we saw anything here on the rental side that surprised us.
From a margin standpoint of course total segment margins are holding up quite well.
The only product line within the segment that I would say is a bit different than what I just described would be in the accommodations business which does have a bit higher labor component to it.
And probably from a performance standpoint looks a lot more like our North American service businesses than it does the rental tool businesses.
Did that help answer your question? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
That does.
And then just one additional question if I could.
Realize you guys will generate healthy free cash flow this year.
I heard the Q1 CapEx.
But how are you guys thinking about full year CapEx this year? And I would assume that whatever that level is it's primarily maintenance.
But just curious as to your thoughts there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it's – I mean we're still thinking as we did last quarter around $400 million in total.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Which is down about 35% from 2014.
There is a bit of growth capital included in that $400 million mainly in international which we will continue with.
But you're right.
Maintenance is the – maintenance capital is the bulk of the budget.
And I've been asked questions about that maintenance capital budget.
I feel very strongly that we want to continue to have equipment even if it's parked on the fence that is in good working order.
And we're capable of doing that from a cash flow standpoint.
And I still think that that's one of the best things that we can do with our cash in this company so...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Brad Handler with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Some of the conversations over the last week have included that customers may be gearing up to do some work on the production side of the business maybe somewhat more quickly.
So there has been some looking for stabilization on the production work the well servicing side in your case perhaps.
There's a conversation underway around completions.
And then ultimately also maybe more eventually around drilling I guess.
I'm curious your sense of if there is any difference in how quickly one – you expect to find bottom in the market in those three categories? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I mean production-related work certainly didn't have as far to drop as completions-related work did.
And so I don't know that in our production-related businesses like in service rigs that we've been quite as impacted as we would be in the pure completion driven activities.
I will tell you this.
Operator spending in production related activities has declined as well as it has in completions.
And it's not like they're out substituting dollars and going out and running up their expenses in the field and production related efforts.
Remember that's expensed work.
That's not capitalized work for the operators.
And many of them who are financially stressed they're not going to take expense dollars and get rambunctious with the way that they spend them.
So I don't know.
If I hadn't answered your question I apologize.
But I mean we've not seen any kind of a surge in our production related businesses.
And I really don't expect to see one in 2015.
You certainly did answer it.
I guess and perhaps in fairness I don't want to represent that I think others were talking about a surge.
But there was perhaps some sense of yeah all bits and pieces of spending were stopped in Q1 but there might be some I guess I'll use the word normalization.
And production being a relatively inexpensive way to help normalize.
Perhaps that's where that comes from.
But okay if not...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
...you don't see that necessarily then? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean – listen there are production related expenses that are associated with kind of continuing of production.
So I mean as you go through as the well moves through its life cycle and you have problems with the pump or maintenance that needs to done on a pump or perhaps it's a well that has been flowing that you need to change tubing sizes in order to accommodate lower bottom hole pressure.
I mean those are activities that operators will continue to engage in.
I don't know there's an increase in those.
I just think they're activities they continue to engage in.
I have had some comments from people about a workover market or recompletion re-fracturing market that we certainly have not seen any signs of appearing particularly in the oil plays.
I think the operators that I've heard from most recently that are interested in re-fracking have really been talking about it in gas areas.
That makes a whole lot more sense to me.
In that gas wells tend to respond to re-fracturing in a lot more predictable way than oil wells would.
Most of the customers I speak to are still trying to figure out whether or not the re-fracturing opportunity is one that actually is going to be productive for them in oil basins.
So we'll see.
Understand.
Maybe an unrelated follow-up just on Drilling Products and Services.
More generally I know – I think Byron had a couple questions to that effect.
But from a revenue standpoint as you think about the rest of the year how – it sounds like you're signaling a little bit of a falling off in the Gulf of Mexico if I interpreted that comment correctly.
But just maybe generally for the product line how might you expect that to flow through the rest of the year revenue wise? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I mean Drilling Products and Services revenue will be under the same kind of pressure as every other part of our business in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico which our revenue was down 5% in the Gulf of Mexico from Q4.
And some of that was in activity and some of it was in price.
And it didn't all happen on January 1.
So what you're going to see in the second quarter is kind of a continuation of the activity and pricing declines that occurred during the fourth quarter.
And so Q2 is going to be down from Q1.
What my comment related to was that 90 days ago I'd have probably told you that we were – we believed that second half of the year deepwater was probably going to be down a bit from the first half of the year.
And I think we're beginning to gain confidence that we may not see that kind of decline in the second half of the year in the deepwater market which bodes well for Drilling Products and Services because that's such a big part of our overall DPS exposure is to the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Right.
Right.
Okay.
Very good.
Thanks.
I'll turn it back.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
And our next question comes from Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Jim.
Now that all the good questions have been asked – I always love saying that.
I have something I need you to reconcile for me.
You're not going to work for new customers at a cash flow loss but your production group this quarter lost a chunk of money.
Are you losing money for your good customers but won't lose money for new customers? Can you kind of reconcile where the profitability who you'll work for and what you'll work looking at that first quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I mean you answered the question yourself Jim.
So it must have been a brilliant question.
Yeah.
The way prices have settled in in virtually all the product lines certainly a significantly large portion of the product lines the pricing is at a point where with our current cost structure we can't make money.
That's for customers that we worked for in Q4 it would apply to new customers.
And so what we have chosen to do is to stick with the customers that have been good to us over the past several years offer them that price point at which I know that we're not making money.
But I'm not going to go to a new customer and offer him the same price point.
So we're being loyal to the guys who were loyal to us.
And we're not out seeking new customers just to add top line volume when we know all we're doing is wearing out equipment and not making money.
Does that make...
Okay.
And then – that all makes sense.
That all makes sense.
I'm just wondering do you cut back though on some of those good customers? Do you give them more equipment? So you – I mean if I'm one of your good customers and I know you're losing money but you're willing to lose money working for me I might very well come up with some other stuff you can do for me.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we hadn't been presented that opportunity.
And maybe we are.
And at that point I guess we'll just consider it.
But I mean the idea the concept there the idea of wearing out equipment to not make money is not something that is very palatable to us.
And although we can't just shut the doors to everything – we need to stay in the marketplace and stay competitive – growing top line in an environment where we're not adding to the bottom line is not something that makes sense to us.
Okay I appreciate that explanation.
In the world of M&amp;A everybody – I think my grandmother has been resurrected and she's going to look at buying some of this stuff from the big divestiture.
Everybody seems to be looking.
It seems to me that it's going to be tough for public companies who do due diligence to win much.
Overall though over the next year and a half do you think you will get decent strategic opportunities to make acquisitions other than the combination of blue and red? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think that there will be opportunities.
Whether or not we execute on those opportunities is going to depend on whether or not we see them as providing the kind of earnings accretion and return accretion that we think makes sense with our hard earned cash.
And so I mean that's always a bit difficult to predict.
But certainly as you know in the past when industry has gone through these types of downturns and down points in the cycle there are opportunities that present themselves.
And we're only interested in good quality assets and good quality companies.
Maybe that narrows the playing field of what we would potentially buy.
But it's back to what we said about this last quarter we really don't know what the full range of opportunities are today.
And I don't know that we'll know any better at the end of this quarter.
In the meantime we'll preserve our cash and preserve our liquidity.
So as the right opportunity – or if the right opportunity presents itself we'll be in a position to respond.
Let me ask it a different way.
In 2009 everybody complained that the down cycle didn't last long enough for any strategic M&amp;A to get done.
Do you think this one will last long enough? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't know.
I can't answer that.
I think I can't answer the fact that in 2009 it didn't really last long enough although we did see some M&amp;A activity occurring in 2009.
There was another rather large combination that took place was announced in September 2009.
You may remember that Baker Hughes-BJ [Services] deal.
All right.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So there were a few things that happened.
And there were few other transactions...
Are those the boats you bought out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Actually they are.
Are those the boats you bought out? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Appreciate it guys.
Our next question comes from Stephen Gengaro with Sterne Agee.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Stephen.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Two things.
Just while we're on the M&amp;A topic.
To the extent the transaction plays out and something meaningful gets spun out of the two big guys.
Are you at all worried that you're going to see another competitor spawned in the international markets from this? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean whatever they would buy is something we're competing with today.
Right? Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> That's fair.
That's fair.
But...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I mean – what we know is – yeah.
What we know is that there is a large competitor and Baker Hughes will be going away.
If there is a new one that gets created because they go buy assets associated with this well that's the same competitive landscape we have today and probably with a name that is lesser known with the customers.
So I don't see how it's a negative.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's fair.
Thank you.
And then as we think about the margin progression throughout the year is it – if you see a stabilization in activity in the second quarter.
If we make that assumption would the third quarter be the margin trough? I'm talking North America.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So I'll just speculate with you here a little bit.
I mean one of the things that concerns me about a flat market when you've got roughly 50% more capacity than what the market needs is that pricing actually stabilizes there.
And so I mean historically when we've seen flat spots in the marketplace and we had one as recently as 2013 what we realized was kind of an ongoing downward pressure in pricing.
And it wasn't nearly as severe as the pricing pressure we went through in the first quarter of this year but it's just a – it's a continued downward pull on prices and a flat market.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
You always give a good realistic view.
I appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Hey Dave.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey John.
I guess first one from me would be just a sort of housekeeping.
But can you remind us where your frac horsepower is today? And how much of that is idle? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I didn't tell you that.
And it's another one I don't mean to be elusive here but active equipment and utilization is continuing to be a moving target.
And what I don't want to do is – as I said about March exit rates earlier I don't want to point to a data point in a moment in time and cause people to believe that it's somehow frozen there.
Instead maybe a way I can answer the question John is by telling you where I think we wind up.
And where I think we wind up is with somewhere in the neighborhood of 40% of our overall total horsepower available parked.
Okay.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then you mentioned the goal of being profitable.
I guess I'll put you on the spot here.
But is there any chance you see Superior returning to profitability by Q4? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Listen I hate the idea of losing money.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's painful.
It's something that I promise you there's nobody in this shop that is satisfied with.
And what we will do as the year progresses is we will continue to work on our cost base because I firmly believe that regardless of how bad the market is a company that generates $3 billion to $3.5 billion in revenue ought to be able to find a way to make money.
I can't tell you that it'll be in the fourth quarter.
I wish that I could.
What I can tell you is that we're going to keep working on the cost base until we reach a point where we are profitable.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Here's one I guess it'll be directed to you but you can speak for the industry on this.
But I mean how long are you willing to – and again you you can substitute industry there.
But how long are you willing to operate at a loss with good customers before you go back to them and say hey we got to have some sort of relief here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh I don't think that's very long.
I mean I think that we'll be constantly in those customers' offices trying to make them understand that the current pricing levels are not sustainable.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They're not industry-wide they're not sustainable.
And if this down cycle were to extend for a few years you're going to find a marketplace that doesn't have the kind of capacity to satisfy today's demand.
Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And so I think we'll constantly be reminding our customers that this is not a sustainable operating model.
It is not a sustainable pricing level.
And of course I'm sure what my customers will turn around and tell me is that we don't think so either.
We don't think that $50 a barrel is sustainable for our operations.
Right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And you can look at their results and see that it's not.
Well do you think that I mean just hypothetically speaking here let's say we stay sort of $60-ish $55 $60.
And you get towards the end of the year and it's the time for E&amp;Ps to go out and send out all their RFPs for the upcoming year.
Is that the time where you – we realistically see that discussion take place in terms of the price release especially like Q1? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think those discussions happen before that.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Now listen I'm not trying to set up optimism out there that we're going to go and get...
No.
I...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...price increases during the course of this year because I certainly don't believe that.
But I think the messaging with the customers will be consistent.
And I think they understand that.
I think they understand.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And what they see in the way of pricing is not something that's going to last forever.
However as I talked about in our prepared remarks we've done a lot of things relative to cost structure around labor.
And what I certainly believe is that a lot of what we've been able to do in the employee related expenses is something that could be sticky.
And that's helpful in a lot of ways because that's helpful for our margin.
It's also helpful for our customers' cost.
Right.
No.
I wasn't trying to get you say you're going to raise prices or anything like that.
I just – these guys they – it's good for E&amp;Ps to have service companies that are taken care of in terms of service quality asset quality and you know where I'm going with this.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Maybe it's...
Last one.
Just on India the type of horsepower that's being sent over there is it just a couple pumps? Are these big spreads that the market will require? And then that's it from me.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
If you remember what a frac fleet looked like in the United States 15 years ago it looks like that.
Oh okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's not 15-year-old equipment by the way.
I mean these are triplex pumps.
It's not the kind of stuff that we would use in horizontal well fracturing in the U.S.
today.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks and good morning.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> Wanted to hit on Argentina a little bit more.
You briefly mentioned it.
But it has been an area of growth focus for the company.
If I remember right the expansion into drill pipe took place late last year.
At this point where are we in the coil expansion? And have you began to build out offerings like stimulation in the country yet? And maybe just some general commentary on how things are progressing in Argentina could be helpful? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
It's progressing very well.
I mean we did – you remember correctly we did add drill pipe late last year.
And we have drill pipe that is on rental there today.
And I think we're talking to customers down there about potentially bringing in more during the course of the year.
We went operational with our first coiled tubing unit which also includes nitrogen I should add.
This is not completions-related coiled tubing work.
This is old-fashioned intervention work with coiled tubing.
And so anyway we went operational with our first coiled tubing unit during the first quarter.
And we have two other coiled tubing units that are targeted to be added to that fleet during the course of 2015.
We've not done anything on stimulation as yet.
I think we continue to see that as an opportunity but not one that we've executed on as yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That sounds positive there.
And you touched on this already some.
There is a growing I would call it almost excitement developing out there with regard to refrac potential in U.S.
markets.
But Dave given your engineering background and you briefly mentioned this but why is this better for gas wells versus oil wells? And can you maybe help us understand the dynamic at work? And why it's more difficult than oil wells? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I mean the very basics here are that the gas molecules when you re-excite them will move a lot easier than oil will.
I mean it's just a function of the way the hydrocarbon moves through the rock with greater ease.
And so – and re-fracturing gas wells a lot of times what we're doing is we're – you may think of it as a fracture entering a new part of a zone that hadn't been stimulated before.
But in a lot of cases what's really happening is we're just – we're moving rock around to a certain extent and exciting gas molecules.
And you just don't get the same kind of effect in an oil reservoir.
Pressure also has a lot to do with this as well.
And so if you're in a dry gas environment where you're not having to fight liquids and as pressure declines another reason why it could be successful on a gas well.
Remembers in oil wells you've got more bottom hole pressure required to lift fluids even to the artificial lift point.
So it's just harder to do.
Listen I talk to a lot of reservoir engineers and people that are a lot – spend a lot more of their time thinking about enhancing recovery in these shales than I do.
And it's a big question mark with a lot of the operators how oil reservoirs will respond to a refrac.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess is there a risk that if you refrac an oil well you end up getting more gas out of the well rather than oil? Is that...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
The bigger risk is that you wind up spending $2.5 million $3 million and not get a return.
And so I mean they think about am I better off instead of spending $2.5 million $3 million trying to do a refrac that I may not get any return on am I better off doubling that and drilling a new well into a virgin part of the reservoir that I know is going to be productive for me? Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
Well thanks a lot for your insight.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from David Anderson with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Dave just a question on the pricing side.
So I think pricing hit – pricing came down pretty hard early in the first quarter.
Just curious on a couple fronts.
Have the E&amp;Ps kind of taken their foot off this? Are they kind of satisfied where the things are going? We heard some chatter out of IPAA last week that some of the E&amp;P guys are saying they think there's a whole another – there's potentially more cuts to come.
So I'm wondering one are you concerned there could be more pricing cuts to come? And two is this uniform across – you have a great view of all these different product lines a lot more than a lot of other companies have.
Is it uniform on the pricing side? Or are there certain areas that still might have more to go? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well let me try and add some flavor to all this.
Okay? It's not uniform across the product lines.
It's not uniform geographically.
What we saw in the first quarter was pricing concessions that were driven greatly by the operators.
And their messages were very clear and very quick.
They needed concessions and they needed them in a big way.
And they were bringing in competitors to make sure that they were able to optimize pricing as soon as possible.
The price deteriorations that are continuing in the market I would say are not as much operator driven as they are competitively driven.
And so these are service companies that for whatever reason are not satisfied with their current revenue activity levels and are looking to add revenue at what we see as being suboptimal margin.
So listen and if a service company comes in and offers you as an operator a lower price than the one you're looking at today in this kind of environment you're going to pay attention.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Just another question totally unrelated.
Gulf of Mexico you talked about kind of the deepwater market staying relatively flat the rest of the year.
What about the shallow water market? I think it was the last call you had talked about that market being in a structural decline.
Anything changed from that view? And could you also just kind of remind us on what your mix is? What your exposure is to that shallow water Gulf? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So historically we've been about 60% shelf 40% deepwater.
I don't have it sitting right in front me.
But my estimation would be that we're probably close to 50-50 maybe even a little bit more levered to deepwater today.
I need to clarify something.
We're not flat in the Gulf of Mexico with Q1.
I think that what we believe is that if you look at where we're going to be in Q2 there's probably a reasonably good chance that we stay flat coming out of Q2 from an offshore standpoint.
Deepwater looks like it's going to be holding up a little bit better than what we thought it would going into this year.
Shelf is down.
But shelf is not down so much from Q4 to Q1.
Shelf was down in the second half of 2014 in total.
And Q1 on the shelf is always one that we're impacted from the seasonal standpoint.
So it's kind of a low point for us.
I would not be surprised if our shelf revenue is actually flat maybe up a little bit from first quarter to second quarter just because I mean from a plug and abandonment standpoint from an optional work standpoint you don't do that kind of work in the first quarter.
And we always do more of it in the second quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Fabulous.
Thanks.
Our last question comes from Jim Schumm with Oppenheimer.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Jim.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Dave how much debt are you comfortable with? If I were to offer you a great business at a great price I mean what's your budget? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know that I have a budget.
I mean a great business at a great price listen I don't know.
I don't know that we have a budget.
I certainly have been comfortable with the debt levels that we've had in this company over the last year or so.
Clearly the decisions that we've made from a capital structure standpoint should tell you guys that we're going to be relatively conservative with the way we deal with the balance sheet.
And that has paid good dividends for us now.
So I don't know.
I think you got to look at the opportunity.
And what that good company's cash flow looks like and how much we think that good company is going to be additive to us from an earnings and return accretion standpoint.
I didn't answer your question.
I don't have a budget in mind.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then I apologize in advance because I'm going to ask you another pricing question.
But so we're still hearing some E&amp;P companies talk about another leg down in pricing.
And yet a lot of your peers and you are sort of shifting strategy from maintaining market share to a greater focus on profitability.
So I mean how do you think this plays out? Are there so many smaller competitors out there that maybe are struggling that are willing to drive price down to stay active? Or so potentially we do have another leg down in pricing but you're just not willing to participate at those prices? I mean is that a possibility? Or do you think that we're close to the bottom here? And that maybe you don't want to call a bottom here but that we're very close to a bottom.
And we sort of stabilize here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I want to try and get you to think about it in a little bit different way.
I don't think about this as there being another leg down being available from a pricing standpoint.
I think about the fact that there is about 50% more capacity in the market than the market needs.
And as long as you have that much overcapacity you're going to continue to see downward pricing pressure.
It's not nearly as severe as the kind of pressure that we saw during the first quarter.
But it's just constant challenge that you have.
And that doesn't fix itself until the market starts getting bigger.
Or some of the smaller competitors go out of business.
Or you have turnover or a reduction in the overall capacity that's in the market.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much for joining us today and we'll talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Superior Energy Services’ Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today’s conference call.
With me today are Superior’s President and CEO Dave Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company’s business management’s plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company’s actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures during this call.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Okay.
Thank you Paul and welcome to everyone listening to our call this morning.
I’ll review second quarter activity.
Robert will discuss segment results.
And I’ll share some color on our outlook before turning the call over to Q&amp;A.
For the second quarter of 2015 Superior Energy generated revenue of $711 million adjusted EBITDA of $116 million and an adjusted loss for continuing operations of $47 million or a loss of $0.31 per share after excluding special items.
During the quarter customer spending and activity levels continued the downward trajectory established the first quarter of this year.
Hardest hit were the U.S.
land markets which experienced a 35% decline in average rig count during the quarter.
We continued to experience pricing pressure due to overcapacity throughout our businesses during the quarter.
Despite major initiatives to reduce costs throughout our system it has been difficult to match the reductions and activity we’ve seen in real time.
This is contributing to compress margins and weakening financial performance.
With that said I’m proud of the effort our organization has put forth so far in reducing costs.
I expect that we will continue to improve our margins over time through our relentless drive to make the company more efficient.
G&amp;A has been reduced below where we expected even 90 days ago and is now tracking between 10% and 15% below our 2014 run rate.
We’ve reduced our headcount by over 3 400 positions a 24% reduction of our work force as of the end of Q4 2014.
Across our U.S.
land businesses where a significant portion of our workforce is located we’ve reduced cost per employee by approximately 20% since the end of 2014.
Reducing cost is an iterative process in response to external conditions and it isn’t easy.
The people tasked with making these cuts have done a tremendous job and approaching this downturn head on.
Strategically we remain focused as ever on geographic diversification.
Versus the first quarter U.S.
land revenue decreased 34% and Gulf of Mexico revenue declined by 12% this quarter.
These decreases were partially offset by international revenue which increased by 8% contributing to a total company revenue drop of 23%.
This underscores our critical international expansion is today and will be to investors as we continue to grow our business.
We also maintained market share with key customers particularly in our horizontal well fracturing business.
Our activity is concentrated in the Eagle Ford and Permian basins although we continue to run fleets in the Bakken and Marcellus basins as well.
Most of our fleets are operating on 24/7 schedules.
We have about one-third of our fracturing capacity stacked and continue our maintenance capital program as units reach maximum hours.
As we’ve discussed over the past several quarters the North American coiled tubing business is facing secular as well as cyclical challenges.
As a result of these challenges we have significantly reduced the value of our coiled tubing fleet.
We also sold our remaining coiled tubing business in Mexico and have exited Mexico as a coiled tubing service provider.
This doesn’t preclude us from operating there in the future but we just don’t see the market improving in Mexico in the near-term.
We also impaired the goodwill associated with our Production Services segment where our coiled tubing assets reside and Robert will cover these items in greater detail.
Our business is cyclical and it’s not a coincidence that we are prepared for this downturn.
We paid down debt and expanded our cash position ahead of this cycle and have continued to emphasize free cash flow during the first six months of 2015.
With a cash balance in excess of $500 million and $600 million available through our revolving credit facility we believe we are in excellent shape to withstand the downturn our industry is facing.
With cash preservation and cost reductions at the forefront we will continue to invest and maintain our strongest business lines mainly rental tools and horizontal well fracturing where we believe we have significant competitive advantages.
We’ll also allocate capital to international growth and expansion as warranted.
During the second quarter capital expenditures largely directed towards these categories for $113 million.
For the year we expect to spend no more than $400 million.
We will be positioned for a recovery despite current sentiment and these opportunities offer the best avenue to strong results when that time arrives.
Today in the third quarter oil prices are down activity and pricing are turning lower and the financial markets are weakening.
We intend to maintain our focus and believe these are the times when strategic decision making and disciplined capital allocation set a company up for top tier performance in the future.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Robert.
Thank you Dave.
As I review each operating segment the sequential comparisons in my comments have been adjusted to exclude the special items for reduction in value of assets that was disclosed in our earnings release.
Drilling Products and Services segment’s revenue decreased 26% to $149 million and adjusted income from operation decreased 60% to $19 million respectively.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 39% to $38 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 27% to $64 million.
And International revenue decreased 7% to $47 million.
Revenue decreases resulted from lower utilization as well as pressure on pricing.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue of $226 million was lower by 36% and the segment recorded an adjusted loss from operation of $44 million down from a loss from operations of $1 million in the first quarter.
Revenues were down as a result of decreased U.S.
land activity which were measured by the average U.S.
land rig count was approximately 35% lower than the first quarter.
Our Production Services segment revenue decreased 17% to $209 million which resulted in an adjusted loss from operations of $21 million.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 31% to $100 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 13% to $23 million.
And International revenue increased 6% to $86 million.
U.S.
land and Gulf of Mexico revenues were impacted by reduced customer spending levels during the quarter.
Coiled tubing electric line and pressure control tools were the business lines that exhibited the most significant revenue decline.
Internationally these service lines performed a bit better.
Coiled tubing and electric line revenues in Latin America improved and we experienced an uptick in hydraulic workover and snubbing activity leading to a higher quarter-over-quarter international revenues in this segment.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue increased 10% to $127 million resulting in income from operations of $3 million.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 23% to $14 million.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 7% to $77 million due to normal seasonal improvements in weather conditions.
International revenue increased 43% to $36 million driven primarily by increased completion tool activity in Indonesia.
Due to the project oriented nature of the segment precise forecasts are difficult but as now we expect generally lower levels of activity in revenues from this segment during the third quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.76 times and our debt to capital ratio was 33.4%.
Our total debt at quarter end was $1.6 billion.
Offsetting this debt is $500 million of cash resulting in net debt of approximately $1.1 billion.
Free cash flow of $82 million resulted from improvements in working capital capital spending discipline and continued emphasis on cost reductions.
This brings our total free cash flow through the first six months of the year to $193 million.
As noted in our press release issued yesterday we recorded a pre-tax charge of $807.6 million related to the reduction in value of assets during the second quarter.
Of this amount $232.2 million is related to the reduction in value of long lived assets primarily associated with coiled tubing operations.
As many of today’s listeners are aware the coiled tubing market in North America has been weakening primarily due to reduced natural gas development in U.S.
and increased use of substitute applications by customers as their well and completion designs have evolved.
These structural changes to the coiled tubing business have led to this reduction in value of these asset.
As a result we have exited the coiled tubing business in Mexico and significantly reduced the value of our remaining U.S.
land coiled tubing business.
In addition to the reduction of value of long lived assets we also reported a goodwill impairment in our Production Services segment of $575 million.
Goodwill is evaluated at the segment level and I would note that coiled tubing is a largest product service line within the production services segment.
There were no shares repurchased during the quarter.
Our cash balance grew by $85 million during the quarter and is now about a $0.5 billion.
We expect cash balances to continue to grow during the third quarter.
Since the end of 2014 we have made great progress in reducing overall costs.
This is clearly evident in our G&amp;A for the second quarter which at $129 million was better than expectations as the organization was more effective in executing cost reduction initiatives.
Most of the reduction in G&amp;A has resulted from reduced employee and infrastructure related expenses.
We expect G&amp;A in the third quarter to remain in the $128 million to $132 million range.
With respect to DD&amp;A we expect DD&amp;A to be in the range of $152 million to $156 million.
This estimate takes into account the reduction of DD&amp;A associated with the reduction in asset values in the second quarter.
Third quarter interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Our overall effective income tax rate in the quarter was impacted primarily by the goodwill impairment charge which is non-deductible for tax purposes.
When you adjust for special items our effective income tax rate was about 37% and we would expect this to be about the same in the third quarter.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave who will discuss our outlook.
Thank you Robert.
Looking ahead to the second half of the year given the recent weakness in oil pricing visibility is cloud at best.
The pace of rig count and activity decline slowed considerably towards the end of the second quarter.
We expect rig count and customer spending to remain relatively flat with second quarter exit rates for the rest of 2015.
In U.S.
land markets there are simply too many oilfield service competitors given current activity levels.
The amount of competition and oversupply of equipment available to service lower levels of E&amp;P spending in the second half of the year will have a persistent downward influence on pricing across most product lines.
As far as the competitive landscape is concerned competitors who are in a weaker financial position and we all will face more stress as time goes on and with that comes the potential for pricing and operational behavior which can exacerbate already weak market conditions over the near-term.
Oil and gas companies are being forced to change as well.
Operators who want to generate acceptable returns in economics have had to become more efficient and eliminate waste.
The result of this has been more operators moving toward horizontal well factory models.
We are designed to service these types of customers and will continue to benefit from their evolution.
To ensure were ready to pick up activity when these customers are we’re preserving operational capacity through investment in high margin high return businesses namely rental tools and horizontal well fracturing.
We are also stabilizing our workforce to maintain the appropriate skills necessary to support operational flexibility in key markets and product lines.
Aside from looking through the cycles to the extent we are able to we remain focused on further cost improvement during the second half of the year.
We believe we should be a profitable company given our revenue levels despite the external environment and that is driving our efforts on the cost side.
This is an iterative process as we adjust to being smaller company in the U.S.
working in a smaller market while becoming a larger company internationally.
In the end I believe that Superior Energy will be a more efficient company better positioned for the long term.
Before turning the call over for questions and given the uncertainty in the marketplace I’d like to remind listeners of several of our core philosophies.
Managing cash and allocating capital towards investment are two of the most important tasks that we undertake as a management team.
Our overarching strategy is to expand geographically and to have a greater percentage of revenue and earnings from international markets.
We believe the international results our large cap competitors reported in addition to ours this quarter demonstrate the importance of a diversified business model.
If a product or service line isn’t exportable in support of our diversification strategy if we don’t posses any execution or operational competitive advantage and if we can operate at above our cost to capital long term it won’t be part of our portfolio over the long term.
We’ve exited several businesses over the past several years in line with this philosophy and expect that to continue.
We will apply the same criteria to acquisition candidates.
Financial stability is important to us.
Generating free cash flow is a goal of our management team and is accomplished primarily by spending within our means and at levels that we can effectively manage.
We can’t fix the market on our own and until the market is more accommodating it is important for stakeholders to know that we manage this business as if we own it and keep their interests front and center.
And with that I’ll turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Dave.
The margins in the Drilling Products and Services fell a little bit more than I would have thought for the quarter.
I guess I was thinking rental margins would be a little bit stickier.
Walk me through what you think is going on there.
Was there customers doing some end sourcing or was it de-stocking or was it pricing? Help us understand where the margin deterioration was? And is that -- or are we near bottom on that as well? Let me try and break this a part a little bit for you Marshall.
About 75% of our revenue in that segment comes from downhole rentals which is premium drill pipe or maybe landing strings or bottom hole assembly stabilizers.
That’s the highest margin part of that product line it’s a highest return in that segment in those two areas.
And although revenue and margins did fall in those product lines we’re still seeing EBITDA margins that are in the 50% range or a little bit better.
And so they’ve fallen from peak.
Well Q4 2014 margins in those product lines were closer to 60%.
So they’re down and the revenue is down.
I don’t know that it’s falling significantly more than what we would have expected.
The other 25% of the revenue in that segment comes from other things and the biggest part of that is surface accommodations.
The surface accommodation actually had characteristics that cause it to look a lot more like a U.S.
land service business and the margins in that product line have fallen precipitously in the similar fashion that we’ve seen in some of the more commodity based service businesses that we have in the U.S.
And that’s really where I think most of the downfall we’ve seen in margins has come from that segment it’s in the accommodations business.
And although as I said drill pipe and bottom hole assembly revenue margins are down somewhat they are holding up better.
That makes more sense.
All right.
Do you think we stabilize there? Yes I mean I think that it depends on when your stabilization point is.
I think what everybody has got to remember about the second quarter is that the best month in the quarter was in April.
And I’ve heard some people say otherwise which causes me to scratch my head because clearly the rig count was down from April to the end of June.
I feel pretty comfortable that we’re reaching a level of stability or are closer to our level of stability based on June results.
Perfect.
Last one for me.
Competitive landscape in the pressure pumping side are we starting to see attrition? I know we have seen guys go out of business.
Give us an update on what you are seeing on the competitive landscape specifically in the pressure pumping side? I mean I know that we are seeing attrition; it’s hard to put your fingers on it in the market that still has close to 50% more capacity than what the market’s demanding.
But I am certain that people that are running some of the older triplex pumps or even some of the newer triplex pumps are probably not rebuilding those.
And so that is going to drive attrition during the course of year.
It’s really hard to see when you’ve got a market that’s as oversupplied as we are today.
It still remains very competitive in pressure pumping.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Clarkson.
Please proceed with your question.
Maybe if we could walk through -- you obviously had a successful quarter internationally some of the ingredients that contributed to that.
I would imagine obviously you’ve got some larger customers that are staying relatively busy maybe successfully redeploying some equipment and of course you’re moving into some new markets but maybe just a little incremental color on that.
It’s a little bit of everything.
Of course every country internationally has got a little different twist to it and we are not in every country but I’ll try and walk through some of the larger ones for us.
Argentina continues to be a market that’s performing well and it’s not necessarily driven today by the shell opportunity which is going to be -- I think going to be really interesting for industry over the next few years but the conventional activity in Argentina is holding up quite well.
We did add assets in Argentina in the form of drill pipe late in 2014 and we’ve been adding coiled tubing units out of the U.S.
during the course of this year.
So that’s helping us to offset declining markets in other places with some growth in Argentina.
As I think about Latin America I think the most -- the market that’s got the biggest question mark to it right now is Brazil.
And Brazil for us is certainly down from where we were last year but there may still be some downward trajectory in Brazil as a result of Petrobras spending levels.
Colombia has held up relatively well for us.
Our new entrants into India as result of acquisition last year is doing well and we do have more assets going into that market in the for coiled tubing and stimulation equipment.
We had good snubbing operations this quarter overall internationally and that’s spread around -- but probably the two areas that we saw the biggest uptick were in Thailand and Trinidad with hydraulic workover operations.
The North Sea market is down and I don’t expect to see any recovery in the North Sea this year.
Africa is kind of flat Saudi Arabia is kind of flat.
So overall kind of a mix in places but I would say a lot of our performance as a result of us putting new assets into some markets where we’ve established ourselves.
And maybe to follow up on Marshall’s question about the drilling products and rental tools business.
Are you seeing it as still a little bit of a differentiation between U.S.
land where things are maybe holding up better than accommodations getting hit and what’s going on in the offshore markets there? The offshore market if you’re speaking of Gulf of Mexico the market on the shelf continues to be really bad.
And deepwater has overall rig count if you look at floater rig count overall deepwater rig count has held relatively flat.
We do get into some product cycles in the Gulf of Mexico from time-to-time where our revenue tended to be a bit more levered to completion from drilling.
A lot of the deepwater rigs carry some of their own premium drill pipe and that’s not new in the market this has been the case for some time.
So it’s not unusual we get swings and sways from one quarter to the next in revenue and margins in downhole rentals in the deepwater area.
We prefer that everybody be completing at the same time.
It doesn’t always work that way.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Meakim with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
So you mentioned that your expectations for U.S.
land activity for the second half would be fairly stable.
As we’ve heard some negative data points out of the E&amp;Ps is regarding 2016 if oil prices hang in the current range.
Could you give us maybe a sense of how you see the risks to 2016 if prices hold here? Well I think that if you -- there is a couple of thoughts I have along these lines.
I mean where oil prices are today is not significantly different than where oil prices were when budgets were put together for 2015.
That being said I think most people would have probably had a bias towards those prices increasing at some point later in the year and they also entered 2015 with a better liquidity position than they have right now.
And so the E&amp;Ps today particularly the smaller and mid-size E&amp;Ps I am sure are much more concerned about what happens to their borrowing base this fall and what that leaves them with from a liquidity standpoint as they go into 2016.
So I understand and share the concern it’s a little bit difficult to see where budgets land at this point for 2016 but I mean if we’re still in a commodity price environment as we are today that’s closer to 50 than it is to 60 then I would sense that E&amp;P budgets could have a downward bias to them in 2016.
But listen I am the last guy in the world you want to talk to about commodity price prediction.
Let’s say things even continue to stabilize in ‘16 or in kind of a flattish environment if ‘16 is even roughly flattish does that force four to six quarters of flat activity is that sufficient to force meaningful consolidation in U.S.
onshore; is that long enough duration of downward time period of activity? I think it does.
I mean I think the longer that we’re in this type of cycle the more difficult it’s going to be for some of the smaller more levered companies to tick around.
I mean look at everyone’s results small to mid-size I mean we’re not -- none of us are making much money.
And as time goes on there are things that we’ll try and do in our business to restructure from a cost standpoint and restructure the way we distribute and service around the U.S.
And I think we’ve still got some levers to pull from a cost standpoint.
But smaller guys that are more concentrated on what they do probably don’t.
And so I do think that we see consolidation.
I don’t know that I am going to consolidate it by the way but I think we do see consolidation.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with Keybanc.
Please proceed with your question.
I just wanted to go back to something you mentioned I think on the last conference call which is the opportunity possibly to transfer some idle assets to international.
And whether you see opportunities for that? And in addition you also mentioned of course this international market losing a major competitor here within the next year and how your thinking has evolved around that with respect to Superior? I mean we have been active in transferring assets from the U.S.
over the past couple of years and continue to do that; I mentioned coiled tubing units specifically which clearly we have more coiled tubing units in the U.S.
than what we need and we impaired the value of those coiled tubing assets as Robert talked about this quarter.
But I’ll tell you it’s not like we cut those coiled tubing assets up; they are still intact and they are available for transfer to international arenas where we feel like we can place them and have a good solid long-term profitable business.
So we will continue to do that.
We’ve been very active in moving drill pipe around as always.
And so drill pipe and rental tool assets in general are pretty easily transferrable.
We have some pumping services assets that we have transferred out of the U.S.
I’m speaking of stimulation capacity.
Mainly capacity that is loaded with the triplex pumps that we don’t see is having utilization in the U.S.
market going forward.
So I mean I think we do have a wide range of assets in the U.S.
We’ve been transferring those assets and will continue to do that.
And that’s very helpful for our international guys because when [Indiscernible] transfer of assets clearly there is not the kind of cash requirement that goes along with those opportunities that would if we were having to go buy new assets to fund that expansion.
So I think that’s very helpful for us.
And I think that further the theme here as we do see the market consolidate internationally with one of our largest competitors going away a competitor that in eight core product lines that we focus on for international expansion were competitive with Baker using seven of them.
I think that clearly means that the opportunities accelerate some force and it’s nice to have some assets to transfer into those opportunities.
So on the -- just going back to North America for a second.
As I understood your strategy is -- you laid it out is you were going to stay very close to your existing customers work for them in situations where you could a little bit of margin rather than go after new customers in a down market where price would be determining factor.
So is that still how you are running the businesses as a matter of principle and have you picked up any new customers in this downturn? So by and large we are still staying with that philosophy of continuing to work for customers working for in the back half of 2014 but I think that’s certainly the case in hydraulic fracturing.
And so we continue to be important part of those customers’ overall service mix.
And so far we have not picked up new significant customers in that business line.
I think in general that’s been our philosophy with the services businesses in North America as we’re not trying to make a market share grab.
Where prices are today and virtually everything there is not a reason to chase that revenue for what’s going to be no profit.
So I’d like to think as consolidation takes place in a U.S.
we are preserving asset base and can be in a position of replacing some of those companies that go out of business when the market comes back but that’s not today.
So preserving customer base continues to be our strategy.
Our next question comes from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
David you talk about international and you’ve gotten to cherry-pick where you work and that’s smart and you hedge your revenues up in the quarter.
But I have to believe that international is getting difficult as well; everybody talked about pricing et cetera.
Are you seeing the most pricing pressure or the most difficult getting business how do you want to look at it from NOCs IOCs or internationally in key companies which is right now the hardest work? So I mean we are probably a bit more levered to NOCs than IOCs overall internationally today and at least in those core markets Jim.
I mean we do more IOC work in places like Africa and some in Asia and a bit in Brazil as well.
But I mean if I think about places like Argentina I mean Argentina our biggest customer is YPF NOC call them what you want to call them and a more of a local company I guess.
We work mainly for the local companies in Colombia.
And so I don’t know that there is a significant difference in behavior from those customers to kind of to your point.
And it sounds like what you are asking is who would you rather work for the IOCs or the NOCs.
I don’t know that there is a big distinction that I’ve seen anyway in behavior between those two different groups.
One exception that is Petrobras.
Petrobras going through an extremely difficult time and they are difficult to work for no matter who you are I think today.
So that’s probably the one… They’ve got their own demons no question.
And a follow-up if I could.
David your outlook your attitude your tone of voice has definitely changed in the last two months.
Can you kind of give me an idea as to how your thinking of the forward future has evolved over the last two months and are there any changes in implication you see as a result of that? Yes.
So I think it’s a great point because whether it’s two months ago or maybe as recently as six weeks ago I think that when we -- the environment that we were in for much of June was one where there was some pretty good optimism about direction in second half of the year because where oil prices were.
And quite frankly it was -- one that being a bit of a false start but I know in speaking to customers in May and June with certain customers the ones have liquidity and have the balance sheet to do more they were certainly gearing up to do more; there’s no question about it.
We saw a few customers that actually followed through this.
I mean I think what’s happened to oil prices over the last six weeks has certainly changed that outlook.
And I don’t know that this is a long term impact at all.
I don’t know where oil prices are going long-term at all; do you Jim? But for the second half of the year I think we’ll… I do but I’m not telling.
Well send it to me in a secret email.
Okay.
That’s helpful guys because I know none of those things claim oil prices but you got to believe that as this keeps happening it’s going to make people more and more reluctant to make commitments knowing they could have their head taken off in a short period of time? I mean I think -- the way that I think about this and I have to keep using the term uncertainty but there’s a lot of uncertainty about oil prices.
And so the way that we think about this internally is that we need to continue to do those things to restructure from a cost standpoint.
And the reason I why pointed this exercises is having been iterative because the first steps that you take and the first steps that we took in the first couple of quarters had in mind that we may need to respond to a little bit higher level of activity in the near term.
And I think now we’re feeling that that’s probably not the case.
And so you dig a little bit deeper and take that next iteration from the cost standpoint to move yourself being a profitable company.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess first I wanted to hit you talked about progressions throughout the quarter on a monthly basis.
So what does exit rate gross margins look like as we exited 2Q? I think for average it was 34.5% if my model is correct? They were down a bit.
So April would have been the highest gross margin month and June would have been the lowest.
I mean it’s not like there’s a enormous gap between the two but they certainly trended down during the course of the quarter.
How you see activity shaping up in the third quarter? Do you think you can hold those exit rate margins? I think that -- listen as long as we’ve got the kind of over capacity situation that we have with a dollar view of oil prices and potentially some customers that are spending a bit less I think it’s difficult to hold pricing.
And I don’t think that we’ve got the kind of -- I’ve heard people ask the question is there another leg in price and I don’t know that I described it is another leg so much as day-to-day pressure that is constantly pushing price down just a bit because there’s so much overcapacity.
And so this back to the cost issue with that in the background knowing that’s likely you got to keep pressing on cost in order to keep margins where they are or to improve margins.
And I think that’s the drive.
So I don’t feel like there is a price improvement opportunity in the near-term with the amount of overcapacity that we have.
So I think it’s not been history in this industry to see long periods of time of flat pricing.
So then you got to reach to conclusion that well there’s probably a bit of downward pressure if there’s any.
So I guess on the Gulf of Mexico and kind of turning to the second half outlook previously you were talking flattish kind of revenues activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico in the second half.
Does that still hold? For deepwater and for the floater market there may be some slight downward trajectory but it’s not much.
Overall our floater rig count has been hanging in there.
And listen I would have told you in January that I thought we’d be headed down in the second half of the year and I’m probably more biased towards it being flattish rather than down.
But we may lose a rig or two; that’s possible.
I think probably as concerning as anything on the deepwater front is that we don’t have a lot of exploratory activity taken place.
Most of what’s been done now are development projects which were commissioned some time back we did have Shell recently announcing new one which is great news but it’s -- if you’re not exploring then there’s some point in the future where deepwater market is going to get a bit smaller.
But it’s not in ‘15 and I don’t know ‘16 I’ll tell you about it later on.
Are you seeing any aggressive pricing behavior in the Gulf of Mexico rental market? Not so much in the real market.
I mean our share position is extremely high particularly in the deepwater.
And so as much as anything what we’ve done from a price standpoint is to preserve market share in light of our customers needing some price relief because of their oil price which is 50% of what it was last year.
And so when a customer that we’ve got very high share position with comes to us and says I need some pricing help or I’m going to need to go out to tender we give them some pricing help.
Our next comes from the line of David Anderson with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about some of those structural changes you talked about in coiled tubing market that caused you to impair and write-down those assets.
On the one hand we’re seeing kind of longer laterals that seem to be relying on more coiled tubing to complete wells question here also about the dissolving bridge plugs.
So is this just sort of a question of your type of coiled tubing that is getting impaired particularly in the U.S.
to Mexico can you just try and talk about some of those secular changes? I mean it’s not our type of coiled tubing.
All of our units are two-inch and larger and that’s just a function of when both Superior and Complete built out coiled tubing fleet so as we’re all done and kind of from 2006 and onward and so they are all modern coiled tubing units that are capable of handling two-inch pipe and of course we have a number of our units that handle two and three ace inch pipe.
So a function of the unit themselves is more function of the fact that and high pressures wells like the high pressure gas wells that we spent so much time on pre 2013 coiled tubing is really your only option for drilling out plugs.
You’re going to do those higher pressure wells with something that contain pressure service rig can’t do that.
And so it’s the lack of high pressure wells that are being completed that really has changed more than anything else they need for coiled tubing.
I mean I think that there are technologies out there like the dissolvable plugs which probably call into question the overall market available for coiled tubing clean outs in the future.
But we still have a lot of completions where coiled tubing is the equipment of choice and I think it will continue to be it’s just not -- it’s not where it was before 2013.
Going back to a couple of months ago you’d kind of talk about how the progression of market kind of played out.
The June was sort of false start you back in kind of May June you were talking about pricing being at unsustainable levels and it sounds like things that kind of fallen off towards the end of the quarter.
And I was just wondering you could extend a little bit on kind of your thoughts on how pricing could come down.
If they are on sustainable levels what is that come out of it I mean is this where do we start to see these guys -- other guys start going away; is that what’s going to happen in the second half in some respects do we need this kind to happen? I mean I think it would be helpful for it happen.
But as I pointed out before so far the attrition that we’ve seen in the business in the form of companies going out of business it’s not enough of a capacity drop in a market that’s got started out with 50% more capacity than what we needed.
So as I said I am not looking for another leg to drop in price but I mean what happens in a market like this is that you do get from time-to-time a company that is trying to be predatory from a market-share standpoint that’s willing to work for a lower price or you get a small company that’s getting desperate because they have got an interest payment coming up that they want to demonstrate to their banks that they are generating volume.
And even though it’s not making any money for them it’s -- the desperation will cause those guys to do things that make you scratch your head.
And you see a little bit in this market like that every day.
And then on the cost reduction side you’ve talked about as things more pressure you have to reduce costs more you clearly made a pretty big point on that in your press release last night.
Just curious how much of that you think is kind of structural versus cyclical.
Obviously the pretty big cyclical component if we talk about wages but your gross margins have improved something like 300 basis points to 500 basis points in the last 12 months.
How much you think that getting that fixed kind of as we start moving up and whatever that is ‘16 or whatnot? I do think in our company that there still are number of structural triggers to pull.
And so so much of what we’ve experienced from a cost saving standpoint to-date has been on the cost of sales line and really involving field employees.
And so as a company like ours with a diverse product line and a lot of operating locations we have the opportunity to look at some of those product lines look at some of those service lines and see are there some things that we can combine.
So there are some things that we can do on restructuring the way we’re offering the service to the marketplace that take some permanent cost out.
And I’ll be very interested in doing those things if we believe that long-term they don’t cause destruction to our overall competitive position.
So I mean those are hard decisions to make but I think there are decisions that we can make that don’t deteriorate our competitive position and may in many cases enhance our competitive position.
And I think that’s where we are today.
I mean we’re at that point where those are the types of triggers that we need to pull in order to drive further cost reduction those are the kinds of things we’ll be looking at.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Sill with Seaport Global.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to dig in or try to get a little bit more color on what happened sequentially in the completion and workover segment.
I understand pressure pumping being down but you also have workover and fluid handling in that segment which in theory are holding up better.
So could you give us little bit color on how you had such a revenue drop it was bigger than the rig count drop in the U.S.
and how that may play forward into Q3? So fluid handling you recall does have a seasonal nature to their business.
And we get a lot of heating revenue in the winter months that really has completely gone during the second quarter.
So I mean that’s not kind of happens every year.
So fluid handling revenue was down substantially from quarter-to-quarter.
I think the other thing is that the fracturing business was down it dropped in really in April.
So we got ahead of full quarter.
We also like I mentioned this on the last call we didn’t have all our frac fleets that were working 24/7 in the earlier of the quarter.
So we did get to 24/7 by late in the quarter and right now we’re expecting to have all the fleets work in 24/7 during the third quarter.
That being said remember there is price movement that occurred.
I don’t want people to get excited about where fracturing revenue is going in the third quarter but it’s probably a bit more stable during the course of the quarter than what we saw during the second quarter.
And did you see anything particularly going on in the workover business because… Workover rig revenue was down but overall what we saw were margins in that business that were pretty steady with where we were exiting the first quarter.
So overall when I look at margins in the three businesses that make up that segment there is not a lot of difference.
And I mean they’re all right around that kind of 10% EBITDA level.
Our next question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a few quick ones from me.
Do you see more aggressive cost cuts forthcoming that would be enough to perhaps drive some margin improvements by Q4? That is our intention John.
Okay.
Listen I don’t want to overstress how difficult it is in driving cost out of the system.
But I don’t have a strong reason to believe that our levels are going to change dramatically between now and the end of the year.
And as we stated we’re going to be on a constant mission to find a way to make money at these revenue levels and we are not doing that right now.
So I would rather under-promise and over-deliver on when we get there but rest assured that’s the drive.
And then when we look at the margins for the completions and workover business in Q2 it sounds like there won’t be that much improvement in the near-term.
I know you had a small asset impairment there but could we -- would you sense a larger impairment potentially coming there if we stay at these levels for another quarter or so? First off I don’t do impairments; we’ve got accountants that tell us when assets need to be impaired.
I think what we try to do in recognizing that we were going to have an asset impairment in the second quarter is we scrub things pretty good because I don’t want to be that guy that is coming out with a asset write off every quarter.
And so I think we are comfortable with the current market environment and our asset values as they stand up for the write off.
And of course when we took that asset write down and that was a triggering event which caused us to look to at goodwill.
And the only segment and where goodwill was affected was that one where there was the asset write off in production services but we did try to get a cursor and look at the other segments as well.
And I’d like to believe that we’re not going to be in a position having to tell you about write offs every quarter.
Okay just two last quick ones from me.
Just given the lower depreciation guidance in Q3 which I guess most of it comes from production services would we potentially see production services margins operating margins perhaps tweaking higher just because of the depreciation benefit? I think as much as anything if you see production services margins tweak up they are probably the result of things that we do in this effort of restructuring.
And the last one just can you tell us what the U.S.
pressure company capacity is today? Yes.
We’ve got a third of our overall capacity stacked so it’s tow thirds of 750 is what we have working.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please proceed with your question.
I wanted to dig into to CapEx little bit Dave.
I think you said that will be just under $400 million this year.
So first just wanted to clarify that number.
And off that how much is growth; how much is acquisitions; how much is truly sustaining CapEx? And if you look at what 2016 could be let’s say we just kind of run flat from here this level of activity what could 2016 spend look like? And I apologize for getting ahead of the budgeting process just trying to get a sense for what to use in our models? Yes.
It’s not a problem I mean I’ll try and give you some idea how I think about it.
There is no acquisition related capital included in the $400 million budget that we announce last year.
And really all we’re saying is we weren’t going to exceed that budget.
I mean our team looks very closely at free cash flow.
And when operating results are below that we budgeted from a budget standpoint then we’re looking at receivables and we’re looking at the CapEx and seeing where we could get more efficient in either of those lines that generate our budget from a free cash flow stand point.
So it triggers.
And so where operating income as I would say that if anything that is probably a bit of the downward bias from $400 million I don’t know that it’s a lot but we won’t spend more than $400 million.
Off that the majority of our spend this year is in the area of maintenance capital.
And I would expect that going into 2016 with overall lower revenue base that we would bring that maintenance capital down.
So I mean without pinpointing a number I would think that if we’re thinking about our market environment ‘16 the one that we’re in today I would say that capital spend would be less than $400 million.
And I’ve got to think that there is some portion of that that is I guess I view as growth capital if you’re moving stimulation equipment Southeast Asia coiled tubing pretty much everywhere.
How much of that is I guess considered growth capital? It would be.
Most of what we’re spending internationally would be considered growth capital.
I mean one of the things that does help us in this environment is that the growth capital requirements for international would be less when we are transferring equipment.
And so we’ll look at those growth opportunities that we have and where we can satisfy that growth by transferring equipment and that causes that growth capital required by international to be less.
But I think it is fair to say we’re probably not going to have a growth capital in the U.S.
and so growth capital is -- whatever element growth capital we’ll have in 2016 is likely to be international.
One more from me.
You have a $0.5 billion in cash $1.1 billion liquidity both appear to be growing then under the assumptions of the capital and more kind of stabilizing.
But can you talk a little bit about how you prioritize the use of cash rank order maybe acquisitions buybacks organic growth prospects? Just kind of walk us through the thought process and is there a stock price that you can -- you simply reshuffle those priorities as it relates to the buyback? I think clearly the what we think about capital structure organic growth is always at the top of the list.
And clearly in a market environment like we’re in the organic growth opportunities are somewhat limited.
After organic growth comes M&amp;A.
And I think part of the reason -- not part of the reason the reason why we began or stop buying back shares like in 2014 was because we saw that the M&amp;A environment may be changing in ‘15 and ‘16 and I think clearly it is changing.
So what we said about this from an M&amp;A standpoint is that we’re clearly going to look at a lot of different areas to deploy cash and we will deploy that cash in a way that we think is consistent with growing earnings and growing return of this company.
And if we can’t get that cash deployed for M&amp;A that satisfies those needs then buying back shares becomes the next natural place for us to go.
So I’m not thinking as this necessarily as just an issue of what’s the stock price I think that we need to allow the market to reveal what all the M&amp;A opportunities will be for us and then make our capital allocation decisions.
Our next question comes from the line of James Schumm with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed with your question.
Dave you mentioned profitability and you’re just trying to right-size the business with current activity levels.
I mean if I were to tell you that activity is flat over the next I don’t know six quarters is profitability on an EBIT basis is that possible in Q1 next year or Q4 next year can you just help me hazard a guess as to what you are thinking there? I don’t know that I’m really ready to talk about win.
I think a lot of that’s going to have to do with what we see is being some of the restructuring charges we want to pull and how much we believe we’re going to capture in the way of cost out of those restructuring triggers.
So the question you’re asking is a great one it’s a legit one; I’m not trying to dodge it I am just not ready to answer it yet.
And then in technical solutions you guys highlighted some completion tool sales in Indonesia I believe.
Is there any one-time or restocking events there or is this level of activity and profitability somewhat sustainable going into Q3? Completion tool deliveries internationally can be a bit lumpy.
And I mean -- what I mean by that is that we’ll deliver equipment for four or five wells.
And when that equipment is accepted by the customer then we recognize the revenue -- we invoice them for it foreign and recognize revenue.
Those four or five wells may take them six or eight months to get in the ground may take them a year to get in the ground.
When they’re in the ground then we’ll restock.
And so it does tend to be a bit lumpy it doesn’t follow a perfectly regular type of delivery schedule it’s great when it happens.
But I think what we wanted to point out is that listen if completion tool’s revenues are bit lower in Q3 don’t think it’s because of the market’s getting smaller or because we’re doing anything differently; it’s just that does tend to be a lumpy business.
And how additive to margins are those completion tool sales? So maybe those don’t recur in Q3 maybe your revenues are down a bit but what does that do to margins? Think about in general margins on those sales being kind of 20% to 25% range.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Daniel you’re getting in just under the gun man.
Yea I squeezed in.
You used the metric cost per employee in U.S.
land down 20% obviously looking closely at that.
Where can that go or maybe it’s easier to express at this way how does your current cost per employee compared to where you think the business was five years ago or eight years ago? Yes I think that overall our cost per -- I don’t think -- our cost per employee today continues to be above what I would consider to be historic norms for North American services oriented businesses.
And I mean it’s driven by a few things one is we’ve seen obviously over the last 10 years we have seen some pretty significant wage increases and wage acceleration and that’s just driven by -- as the shale market developed the extreme need that we had in these businesses for new labor.
The other component has been that so many of the basins that we’re operating in today have really never had the labor for us that was needed in the basin to support the work level.
And so we’ve incurred those costs associated with rotational employees.
So you think about man camps all of the man camps that are out there in North Dakota and the Permian Basin they used to be down to South Texas too.
I mean they are there to accommodate rotating labor and rotating labor cost us more.
And so I still see the opportunity over time to continue to reduce the amount of our workforce that is -- that we’re incurring cost to rotate for.
And ultimately we like to see us get back to the kind of labor force that we had in the U.S.
2005 and prior to that where employees in every basin resided in that basin; and we’re not there yet.
And maybe last one or second one just quick diagnostics on production services in Q2.
Even though it was pretty resilient despite the revenue decline I would imagine international probably uptick to term the contribution and you pull some costs out but it seems like the underlying U.S.
business probably experienced pretty low decrementals; is that fair and has that business reached the level at which it’s sort of at a hard trough? I’d certainly like to think so Daniel.
I mean it was probably particularly in the coiled tubing business in the U.S.
it was one that was really pulling down margins in that business.
We’ve been working a lot on cost in coiled tubing we of course exited the business in Mexico which has been losing money for us that’s included in that segment.
So I think that there a guy in my position got to be really careful about calling trough.
But I think that there is still opportunity to go build margin in that business as we continue to work on cost and eliminate some of the operations such as Mexico that have been losing money.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Dunlap I would like now to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us.
Talk to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
And have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Superior Energy Services Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
With me today are Superior's President and CEO Dave Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures during this call.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Paul and welcome to everyone joining in this morning.
I'll begin with a review of third quarter activity.
Robert will discuss segment results and I'll wrap up with thoughts on our strategy and outlook before turning the call over to Q&amp;A.
For the third quarter of 2015 Superior Energy generated revenue of $601 million adjusted EBITDA of $68 million and an adjusted loss from operations of $69 million or $0.46 per share after excluding special items.
Overall operating conditions remained challenging during the third quarter.
Crude oil prices and the horizontal rig count both declined sequentially causing persistent pricing pressure and reduced equipment utilization across most product lines and services in all geographies.
In the U.S.
oil and gas exploration and production companies are facing increasing levels of financial stress and collectively are more focused today on their liquidity and cash flow preservation than production growth.
We expect this focus to be maintained through the end of 2015 and into 2016.
To the extent that oil and gas drilling and completion activity does pick up we suspect it will be driven by increasing crude oil prices with a belief that prices will need to improve and remain higher for some time to inspire additional E&amp;P spending.
The Gulf of Mexico and international markets have also been impacted by declines in oil prices.
In these geographies our sequential revenue decline was driven by two product lines in particular.
As discussed during our last call the second quarter was strong for our snubbing and sand control completions businesses.
These two businesses alone were responsible for approximately $38 million of our total sequential revenue decline and about 25% of our sequential gross margin decline during the quarter.
We expect both of these businesses to rebound in the fourth quarter and perform somewhere between our Q2 and Q3 results.
During our last call we mentioned that we would continue to seek ways to restructure our cost basis in the business during this downturn.
I'm pleased to report that we have made significant strides in this effort in our U.S.
businesses.
Beginning in August in an exercise that is now nearly complete we have combined many of our U.S.
production and completions oriented businesses into geo market focused organizations.
In the U.S.
land market we've combined our coiled tubing well test flowback cased hole wireline slick line and our well service rig businesses into a single business unit.
These businesses are now all managed by one senior manager.
Redundancies in all sales and administrative-related functions as well as operational support and facilities are being eliminated.
In addition we have shut down one of our pressure control related businesses and transferred those assets to our service rig business.
The result is an organization that is capable of providing the most comprehensive completions-oriented package in the market.
We now have a one-stop shop for our customers to contract all elements of completions support and are perfectly aligned with our customers' central procurement functions.
In addition we have enhanced our ability to offer a service rig with a full complement of BOP accumulator sledges (4:47) and pump package.
Concurrently we executed a similar integration on the Gulf Coast to form a single business unit that offers cased hole wireline slick line pressure control services coiled tubing plug and abandonment and slot recovery services.
This combines the sales and administrative function of what were four separate organizations and offers industry leading knowledge of Gulf Coast cased hole operations in a single business unit.
This geo market structure for our production and completions related support businesses is similar to the structure that we utilize internationally.
It is also a structure that creates competitive advantage in packaging an attribute we believe will be very appealing to our customers.
When we undertook these integration efforts we believed the result would be a more competitive business offering with lower operating costs.
We have already observed the first-hand with the award of a completions tender in the Permian Basin that includes hydraulic fracturing frac stacks perforating packers and plugs on a multi-pad project for a new customer.
Our integration effort has not been easy but I've been pleased with the speed and efficiency in which it was executed.
During the third quarter we incurred about $10 million in costs associated with restructuring and believe there will be some additional costs incurred in Q4 as the process is completed.
The result of our effort is not only a better more competitively positioned business but also results in $50 million of expected annualized cost savings relative to our Q3 2015 cost structure which will enhance operating leverage when we experience higher revenue levels.
While we believe this geo markets approach will be helpful to our competitive positioning of these product lines we have chosen not to include horizontal well fracturing or our water management business in this reorganization.
In addition we continue to believe that rental businesses and project-oriented businesses such as sand control completions and well control are better organized as global businesses.
As reported today in our press release we did impair a portion of the goodwill associated with our Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment.
This is reflective of how steep and prolonged this downturn has been and may continue to be but it has no impact on the company's earnings capacity.
We also believe that our strong liquidity position and track record of financial operational and investment discipline speaks for itself.
We are highly levered to any future North American recovery and maintain a dominant Gulf of Mexico rental franchise with growing international exposure.
Operating highlights of the quarter include increased utilization in our hydraulic well fracturing business which was offset by pricing pressure but supports our belief that our operating model is ideally situated for the preferences of our larger less financially constrained oil and gas operators.
Our sand control completions business successfully installed and commissioned the first 7.75-inch multi-zone single trip system that has ever been deployed in the world.
While demonstrating our approach to practical innovation this tool also improves our ability to compete in the deepwater arena.
Internationally we performed our first coiled tubing work in India during the quarter and anticipate performing our first stimulation work there in the near future.
We entered the India market via a small acquisition just about a year ago and have already introduced two new product lines.
This is exactly what we look for when evaluating international expansion opportunities.
Continuing with this theme we recently added coiled tubing capacity in Argentina and have been pleased with the performance of that business as well.
Although the international markets are not immune to the collapse in crude oil prices we continue to be in good position in our targeted markets.
We are well aware of the perils that exist during such a pronounced downturn and surviving this part of the cycle has been and remains a top priority.
We are maintaining operating capacity reducing our cost structure and high-grading our work force.
We believe when markets recover and revenue growth is again on the horizon that we will be in position to deliver impressive incremental margins and strong earnings growth.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Robert.
Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</strong> Thank you Dave.
In my discussion of each operating segment the sequential comparisons have been adjusted to exclude the impact of special items that were disclosed in our earnings release.
Drilling Products and Services segment's revenue decreased 12% to $130 million and adjusted income from operations decreased 60% to $8 million respectively.
U.S.
Land revenue decreased 13% to $33 million driven by lower bottomhole assembly and accommodation utilization.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 10% to $57 million due to lower bottomhole assembly and specialty completion related rentals utilization.
International revenue decreased 16% to $40 million due to lower levels of drill pipe rentals in the North Sea.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue decreased 10% to $203 million which decreased 10%.
This segment recorded an adjusted loss from operations of $54 million compared to an adjusted loss from operations of $44 million in the second quarter.
Horizontal well fracturing utilization was slightly higher during the third quarter but was impacted by continued pricing pressure.
Fluid management revenue declined due to lower levels of activity primarily in the Rockies.
Well service rig revenue was down due to lower levels of completion related activity during the quarter.
Our Production Services segment revenue decreased 21% to $164 million which resulted in an adjusted loss from operations of $25 million.
U.S.
Land revenue decreased 14% to $86 million and Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 45% to $12 million due to declines in coiled tubing and electric line.
International revenue decreased 24% to $66 million primarily due to seasonal declines in snubbing and our exit of the coiled tubing business in Mexico which we brought to your attention last quarter.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue decreased 18% to $104 million resulting in an adjusted loss from operations of $8 million.
U.S.
Land revenue increased 13% to $16 million on higher completion tools revenue.
Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 19% to $62 million due to reduced activity in our snubbing and sand control completions businesses.
International revenue decreased 28% to $26 million driven primarily by decreased sand control completions activity in Indonesia.
During my discussion of our segments' results I've mentioned snubbing and our sand control completions businesses a couple of times.
These businesses tend to be project oriented and aren't as impacted by the declines in the U.S.
Land market as other businesses.
As mentioned earlier we currently expect activity for both of these businesses to increase during the fourth quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet and our liquidity our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.5 times and our debt-to-capital ratio was 40.1%.
Our total debt at quarter end was unchanged at $1.6 billion.
Offsetting this debt we reported a cash balance of $534 million as of September 30 resulting in net debt of $1.1 billion.
Free cash flow from the quarter of $53 million resulted from further improvements in working capital capital spending discipline and continued emphasis on cost reductions.
Total free cash flow for 2015 through September 30 is $247 million.
As Dave mentioned we reported a pre-tax charge for the reduction in the value of assets of $756 million.
This is primarily related to an impairment of goodwill in our Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment driven by further deterioration of market conditions and the prolonged downturn in the oil and gas industry.
There were no shares repurchased during the quarter.
Our cash balance grew by $33 million during the quarter and remains above $0.5 billion.
As we move through this cycle our free cash flow generation will become more challenging and we will emphasize cash preservation until we believe we have reached a trough in oil field activity.
Reviewing assumptions for the fourth quarter I'll begin with G&amp;A.
We continued our cost reduction efforts during the third quarter and reported G&amp;A of $123 million for the period.
This is approximately $6 million below our Q2 2015 levels.
For the first nine months of 2015 G&amp;A totaled $404 million which is $54 million less than our G&amp;A over the first nine months of 2014.
Most of the reduction in G&amp;A has resulted from reduced employee and infrastructure related expenses.
We expect G&amp;A in the fourth quarter to be in the $114 million to $118 million range.
Annualized this run rate would put us approximately 25% below our 2014 full-year G&amp;A.
We expect DD&amp;A to be in the range of $142 million to $146 million.
This estimate takes into account any reduction of DD&amp;A associated with the reduction in asset value.
Fourth quarter interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Our effective income tax rate during the quarter was impacted by the goodwill impairment charge which is non-deductible for tax purposes.
The estimate of our full-year effective income tax exclusive of non-deductible goodwill is now 34% down from our previous estimate of 37%.
We expect the fourth quarter effective income tax rate to be approximately 34%.
And with that I will now turn the call back over to Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks Robert.
One observation I have from this earnings season is the pent-up desire for industry to declare a bottom to this downturn.
I don't believe we will know when we have bottomed until that period is well behind us.
Industry participants do seem to agree that activity in the U.S.
which trended down during the third quarter will continue to trend down during Q4.
We have heard from several of our larger customers that they intend to increase their activity during Q1 as they will have fresh budgets and a desire to front-end load their spending in 2016 to optimize production during the year.
These customers' ability to maintain their early year pace of spending will be largely dependent on improving oil prices during the course of 2016.
I am sure that there will be other customers that reduce spending during Q4 this year and enter 2016 maintaining that low level of spend either because they have less liquidity or they just don't like producing in this low-priced environment.
Our visibility on overall E&amp;P spend remains murky at best which means that we need to remain nimble and continue to drive cost efficiencies while positioning our business for the point in time when we do experience higher revenue.
We have invested maintenance capital throughout the year.
Much of it is directed toward the U.S.
land market in an effort to keep our assets in like-new condition for a market recovery.
In addition we continue to invest in training and on-boarding in order to respond in short order to the ultimate need for more entry level people in our business.
Using our horizontal well fracturing business as an example we believe we can hire train and deploy up to 100 employees per month and take our fracturing utilization from approximately 50% at the end of Q3 2015 to 75% in six months or less.
Should we see evidence of further oil price recovery and stability which we believe will be the driving force behind any change in customer behavior we can continue activating equipment and believe we can be near 100% utilization within 12 months.
While this would require an increase in capital expenditures it would also be supported by customer demand and would not be speculative.
This example is illustrative of how we are viewing the opportunity ahead of us over the next 12 months to 18 months and should help investors understand how we intend to capture sizable incremental margins in a recovery.
We will be responsive early in the cycle.
We will provide field level reliability and execution that customers must have to be efficient and we will continue to invest responsibly at levels that we can manage effectively.
This downturn certainly hasn't been any fun and continues to be challenging.
We believe our track record of managing the company for full cycle returns should provide confidence that we will be shrewd in our decision-making.
More importantly we believe the measures we've taken to modify the complexion of Superior Energy during 2015 will result in excellent financial performance and results when the market does become more favorable.
Before turning the call over to Q&amp;A I'd be remiss if I didn't acknowledge the dedication and commitment to solving problems I've observed from everyone at the company this year.
You learn a lot about people when business becomes challenging and I've learned that the people who work for Superior Energy are true professionals and can't wait to see how well we do when the market improves.
With that we'll turn the call over to questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel from Clarksons Platou Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jeff.
Maybe if we could start with the exercise of disaggregating the Drilling Products and Services group again for the quarter understanding that there's some different moving parts there and help us understand those moving parts between accommodations and things that are probably a little bit more challenged than the rentals business and what's been going on there? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So all of the businesses in that segment were impacted last quarter.
The accommodations business is the one that is really most challenged from an overall pricing and margins standpoint.
In a lot of ways that business looks a lot like most of the North American services businesses do.
We continue to see pricing pressure on drill pipe and bottomhole assemblies but I think overall bottomhole assemblies revenue was probably most impacted during the quarter.
And so those are the tools that support directional and horizontal drilling.
And I think that overall the bottomhole assemblies product line was more impacted from Q2 to Q3 than drill pipe.
Premium drill pipe and landing string rentals continues to be fairly good in the Gulf of Mexico.
Revenue was down for those product lines as you'd expect from Q2 to Q3 but we have a fairly dominant market share position there that's holding up well.
We did see some international revenue declines in premium drill pipe primarily in the North Sea.
But the really – most challenging product line within that segment is in the accommodations business.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And when you talk about shifting to this geo market approach and maybe some of the business as being more one-stop-shop can you talk us through that education process or the sales process with the customers? Does that have to migrate up to the C-suites of the customers or is it easier to make that transition through the field? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's actually a transition that takes place from a communications standpoint more with engineers in the office of our customers and with their procurement groups which – one of the things that we have witnessed during the course of this year is that purchasing decisions which over the past five or six years have been made in the field have migrated to the office.
And so we had a lot of consultants particularly in the land market of the U.S.
that were making procurement decisions in the past and that's a behavior that has changed dramatically.
So one of the things that we saw from operators relatively early in the year is that they've pulled purchasing decisions out of the field moved it into central procurement groups and those central procurement groups really like the idea of a single one-stop-shop.
I think that this is a behavior that will maintain any upturn that we experience as oil prices improve at some point in the future.
And I think we're going to see central procurement groups now that have gained more muscle during this downturn control more of the spend for these types of services as we go forward.
All right.
Appreciate the color.
I'll turn it back.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson from Howard Weil.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Blake.
First of all Dave I didn't hear you and rightfully so call this out at all but I guess when you go through a somewhat major restructuring at least in Superior parlance like this I would suppose that there's a point in the quarter or a point in the process where you're making the decision to forego an amount of revenue albeit unprofitable revenue.
Would you suggest that A) that had an undue impact perhaps on top line as you're actually reorganizing yards equipment et cetera and we should consider this continuing into 4Q as well? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I don't know that there was a significant amount of disruption on the top line during the third quarter.
We did have as I mentioned one of our pressure control rental businesses that we opted to close during the quarter.
And of course in and of itself that would be revenue that is gone does not return at any point in the upcycle.
But I also mentioned – and these are – so let me get more specific.
In this particular business the primary business has been rental of high pressure flowback iron to flowback companies; BOPs pump packages accumulators to drilling rig companies and workover rig companies.
And what we saw in that business was that it was not profitable for us.
It was losing money for us in this particular cycle.
Over the past several years it's been a business that kind of survived right around the cost of capital level even when times were good.
And so in shutting the business we have dropped our top line exposure but we're taking those assets and putting them to use in other parts of the business.
So I mentioned we can take those same BOPs and pump packages and accumulators and include them as part of the rental package on one of our service rigs which actually gives us a revenue uplift there.
So I don't know that anything that we did during the quarter has a substantial impact on our ability to generate top line.
In fact I'd probably argue that it's going to generate substantially better bottom line over time.
Got it.
And then switching to the international markets I think you gave some good billback (25:06) to production services and the snubbing and technical services sand control issues – or comparisons during the quarter not issues.
Question is then centered on the international within DPS.
The North Sea we all kind of I'm sure know the state of the North Sea right now but that pipe business in itself has kind of been fluctuating up and down for the last year.
Is it kind of down for the count or is it just a variable this quarter at this point? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Down for the count I mean to say that would be indicating that we're at bottom and I'm not sure I'm ready to do that at this point.
But I think that what we've seen is over the course of the last year and a half or so Drilling Products and Services first came under a bit of pressure in Brazil which was not all directed at – or the result of an oil price decline.
And now what we're seeing are more reductions in that business that are truly based on customer activity and decline in areas like the North Sea.
I do see in the Drilling Products and Services business still opportunities for us to increase revenue in places like Asia.
And I know that's kind of a focus in that group now so there may be some offset areas that we're able to expand into and begin to get some revenue improvement.
But I think overall that is a business which like many of our others is going to be down until we begin to see better activity driven by better oil price.
Right.
Well thanks Dave.
I appreciate the time.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Lamotte from Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks guys.
Hey Dave I wanted to just follow up on what you thought the run rate savings was likely to be from the consolidations that you executed in the third quarter.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So what I mentioned was we expect to see around $50 million a year in annualized savings.
That's based on a Q3 2015 run rate.
Okay.
Sorry for missing that.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No problem.
And then the integration team what are they focused on now? You actually moved a lot faster on U.S.
land and Gulf of Mexico than I would have given.
I thought this was maybe a two quarter process.
But I know those guys are still busy and you've still got some work to do.
Can you maybe give a sense as to what inning you think you are in the process and what they're sort of immediate focus is at this time? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So the integration team is actually largely complete.
We started this process in August.
It did move very swiftly and I'd say the integration was really largely complete by the second week in October.
We do still have some trailing costs associated with this restructuring.
So I pointed to around $10 million in costs during the third quarter.
That's associated with severance as well as facility closures are the primary portion of that cost.
We'll have some of those same types of costs although to a lesser degree in the fourth quarter.
So we've kind of bridged quarters during this integration effort so you got some cost in Q3 and we'll have some trailing cost in Q4 but it's totally finished from a cost standpoint by the end of Q4.
Integration team's really done a good job.
I mean the businesses have been handed over to the new senior managers and the integration team was there to organize the effort and they did a fantastic job.
I might also add just while I'm on this this is really the first time Superior at a corporate level has taken on this type of integration exercise.
Historically in Superior and in Complete the two primary organizations that make up our company today we didn't do a lot of integration with acquisitions.
We let things stand alone in many cases carrying their own sales and G&amp;A functions and so this was our first chance to what I describe exercise some integration muscle which I think may be helpful to us at some point in the future.
I should also point out on that $50 million in annualized cost savings that it's about a 50/50 split between cost of goods sold and G&amp;A as to where those cost efficiencies reside.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks so much.
I'll turn it back.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins from Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> So Dave you're saying that the bottom's January 1? Just kidding.
That's a joke.
Just kidding.
Spend a little time on the Gulf of Mexico.
The rig count's been relatively flat there.
It was – this is one of your weaker areas.
Help us understand what's going on specifically with you but more generically next year in the Gulf and what your outlook is given – with your restructuring? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah so I'll split this response into two parts.
The first part is the shelf.
The shelf has been very slow.
Most of the work that we've had going on on the shelf is related to minor production maintenance work and plug and abandonment.
And you know that is a part of the market that really began coming down during 2014 when oil prices were still good.
I do not expect to see any increase in drilling or completions activity as long as we're in this kind of oil price environment and expect that most of our business on the shelf will be related to production maintenance and plug and abandonment.
Deepwater rig count has held up generally fairly well and of course most of what's going on – I think all of what's going on in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico today is development related.
I feel pretty good about maintaining a reasonably strong level of development activity until we run out of development projects to do.
I get a little bit concerned that there's not much E&amp;P or exploration activity taking place there but it kind of feels like where the market is today is probably a reasonable point to think about the deepwater market over the next few quarters.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenue in the third quarter was greatly impacted by snubbing and completion – sand control completions which they do tend to be kind of lumpy businesses we've told you guys that in the past.
The reason why they're highlighted now is because those two businesses actually remain overall pretty strong which is an outlier in this particular market.
So it was one thing – just to give you an idea I mean those are businesses that generate in the neighborhood of $300 million a year in revenue which was not much to talk about when we were doing $4.5 billion in revenue; it winds up being a lot more to talk about when you're doing $2.5 billion in revenue.
Inc.</span></strong> But were there any specific customers where you had a problem? And I guess just to rehash what I think you said was that this was kind of a lumpier downturn that the run rate going forward is going to be much better.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> These businesses are always lumpy.
So in the Gulf of Mexico when you're doing these deepwater completions you may have a particular project in one quarter that's exotic metallurgy and of course we build two completion strings for every one of these deepwater completions.
My point is you get three or four of these completions going on in a quarter and you have a big revenue spike.
You get one or two completions the next quarter and you see a revenue decline.
And it's not necessarily that you've lost a customer or gained a customer; it's just where that customer happens to be in their drilling and completion cycle.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And lastly on – just to finish up on the Gulf it sounds like just from an outlook perspective your customers are sticking with their plans.
No major deterioration next year given what your customers are telling you.
Just specifically in the Gulf.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah not at all specifically in the Gulf.
And I think I could probably make a similar comment in many of the international markets.
I've been on a trip over the last month in Asia and I heard several of the NOCs that we're talking about going out to contract for deepwater rigs in 2016 which kind of had me scratching my head.
But what you hear from those customers is they're re-looking project economics because deepwater rig rates have gotten so cheap.
So I don't know Marshall I'm not trying to build a lot of optimism into a deepwater global market story but there certainly are some customers outside of the Gulf of Mexico that are beginning to think this way.
Whether we start to see Gulf of Mexico customers think that lower day rates on rigs should drive a higher level of activity we'll just have to see.
Hadn't had any of them specifically say that to us yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Mulvehill from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Chase.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess I'm going to ask for your crystal ball for 2016 as we kind of look to the international market.
Can you just walk us through the puts and takes for the international market in 2016? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I mean listen overall the international market is going to be down another leg I think in 2016.
International customers are always a bit slower to respond to commodity price changes so we see a bit of a leg down in 2015.
I think you see another leg down in 2016.
Puts and takes on that from Superior's standpoint we will continue in our targeted markets to add product lines where we get opportunities to do that.
I mean is that enough to overcome what will be overall a market decline? I doubt it.
But it may mitigate some of the downside some.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And for the international market how much of your 3Q revenues were generated from deepwater? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't have a good answer for that (35:29).
Inc.</span></strong> On a percentage basis I mean.
You think it's 25% 50%? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd rather than taking a guess at it I'd rather get back to you on it.
Paul can answer that question for you after the call.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
I'm going to ask the same question now on the Gulf of Mexico.
Do you know that? How much of your 3Q revenues were generated from the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably on the order of 70% or 75%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
And then last one and I'll turn it back over.
2016 CapEx how should we be thinking about that? I know it's kind of early but what should we plugging in our model? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean it's clearly going to be lower.
We haven't completed a budget yet which we'll be going through that process between now and kind of mid-December but my – what I've tried to steer the organization towards is this.
I'd like to enter 2016 with a very very low spend rate.
And when I say very very low as close as we can get to zero.
I'm sure we'll spend – there will be some capital spending in Q1 but I'd like to start the year at a very low pace so we've got flexibility as the year evolves and see what the market brings us.
I think that getting locked into certain capital projects when we may continue to be for a full year in 2016 in conditions like we are right now we're going to think about cash preservation as Robert pointed out.
And so expect at least our first quarter and probably first half of year capital spending levels to be extremely low.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All-righty.
Thanks Dave war eagle (37:01).
Next question comes from the line of Sean Meakim from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Sean.
Just to piggyback a little bit off of the previous Gulf of Mexico discussion were there any other customer or project-specific challenges that you guys had in the quarter to help drive some of that discrepancy between revenue and rig counts? And then consequently as you think about 4Q anything that could kind of bounce back or see any changes or no given how kind of our budget sit today? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we mentioned in some of our prepared comments I mean we had a – with a significant reduction overall in revenue in both snubbing and completions and that's both – that's a split between international and Gulf of Mexico but between those two product lines it explains almost half of our overall revenue decline from Q2 to Q3.
We do expect revenue to rebound in both those product lines in Q4 probably not all the way up to Q2 levels but if you picked a point in between that's probably a good proxy.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then in terms of international pricing strategy any shift in how you guys are thinking about trading pricing for longer terms or lower cost requirements anything there in terms of that's changing over the past quarter? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Not really.
A lot of the work that we do internationally is contracted and so you set those prices and generally live with them for at least a year or multi-year period.
I don't know that we've got any particular big contract lulls that are coming in any time soon but – so I don't know that I have a lot of commentary on international pricing.
I think that certainly we've had some concessions in markets that are dominated by more call-out work such as Argentina.
We've seen some concessions throughout the course of the year in Brazil as Petrobras has gone through their downturn but I don't know that there is anywhere else internationally that we're seeing any pronounced changes in pricing strategy.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta from Stephens Inc.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking the questions Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Inc.</span></strong> We've hit on this some in the Gulf of Mexico a little bit internationally are you able to quantify how much of the decline sequentially from the second to the third quarter in the variety of international markets is related to project delay slippage? How much is a result of lower activity of market share and do you think you can make back any of the portion that is slippage or delays? Can you make (39:44) the fourth quarter? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know that I would characterize this as slippage or delays.
I mean I think as we have said significant portion of the revenue decline coming from snubbing and sand control completions which tend to be lumpy.
They've always tended to be lumpy type of product lines and so we had a very strong quarter in the second quarter from that standpoint and both of those product lines performing at very high levels in the second quarter both of them kind of at low levels in Q3.
I think Q4 is probably that point that's in between which would be kind of more I guess mid-cyclical.
But I would not characterize what they've experience in Q3 as delays just part of their normal revenue cycle.
We'll say this on international and we've pointed this out in the prepared comments we did – part of our international revenue decline from Q2 to Q3 was a result of not being in Mexico anymore.
And we mentioned that on our last conference call that we had exited Mexico and the exit of Mexico is responsible for somewhere around 20% to 25% of our overall revenue decline internationally.
Now obviously it didn't have any impact on margin because we weren't making any money in Mexico but it did have an impact on top line.
Inc.</span></strong> That color is very helpful.
And staying on the international front obviously there are many markets there – it's funny we consider it the international market – but any insight into next year? I know this question's kind of been asked but is a good way to think about this on what we think the rig count will be internationally or how can we start to calibrate our models? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You know and this is kind of a rough assessment at this point but we went into the year believing that the international E&amp;P spend would be down 10% to 15%.
I think when it's all said and done it's going to be more like 20%.
I think that in 2016 10% to 15% probably feels a little bit better but there's going to be big differences as you mentioned from one country to the next.
And so I don't know we'll get a better assessment of how it impacts us as we go through the budget cycle and we'll be able to give you guys some guidance on what we think our international revenue does when we report our fourth quarter earnings.
But my very high-level view at this point would be to thinking kind of 10% to 15% down in 2016 overall E&amp;P spend internationally.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
Final one out of me is there any seasonality in the snubbing work in the work that seems to be more lumpy? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
In fact Q3 is typically a seasonal low in that business for work that takes place in Europe and the North Sea.
Most of what's done that's not well-control related work with snubbing tends to be kind of optional work.
It's things that can be scheduled and in general we've seen customers in continental Europe as well as the North Sea that prefer not to take on these optional projects during the big vacation period so we always see the snubbing business down some in Q3.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Herbert from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Bill.
I wanted to ask a little bit about your balance sheet and balance sheet optionality with regard to M&amp;A.
And I'm just curious as to how you're thinking about that today just given the depth and duration of this downturn.
I mean on the one hand transaction values are coming your way.
On the other hand industry fundamentals have been all the more challenging.
So I'm just curious as to how you think about the balance sheet? How hard are you willing to push the balance sheet for the right kind of transaction? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So if there's one thing that down cycles teach us is that you should always be cognizant of where your balance sheet is and what kind of balance sheet risk that you're taking.
I mean I feel very good about the way we've positioned our balance sheet and particularly the cash balance on that balance sheet for this downturn.
As you are aware we've maintained a free cash flow position this year as we had last year and the year before that.
That's not new metrics for Superior.
I think the reality of this Bill is that the cash on the balance sheet is a really important asset for us right now.
The undrawn nature of our current revolver is a tremendous asset for us now and we'd like to hold onto it for as long as we can.
So – and I think that M&amp;A has not been progressing at a very high pace because there's not very many people out there that can pull the trigger as buyers and we're one of the few companies that you point to that does have flexibility with our balance sheet to potentially be a buyer but at the same time that good balance sheet is part of what gives us confidence that we're going to come out of this downturn as a strong survivor.
And so I'm not perfectly answering your question I know but I mean ideally you begin to look at M&amp;A and execute on M&amp;A as you get to the end of this cycle.
I'm not sure we're there yet.
Okay.
That's fair and sensible.
Can you update us with regard to the head count reductions year-to-date versus the 2014 head count? And then in relation to that just given the depth and duration of this downturn and increasingly the industry cutting not only into fat and muscle but now into bone I'm just curious as to your thoughts on headroom for growth once the bell rings for the growth narrative for the industry writ large? And what kind of headroom for growth do you guys now have with regard to low-hanging fruit without having to significantly reinvest in the business in order to keep pace with the E&amp;P capital spending? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
On head count we exited 2014 overall company-wide with a head count of around 14 000 and our head count today is down 34% from that level.
So it has been a significant reduction over our workforce.
Now some of that is driven by the restructuring and integration of businesses.
So we've removed some redundancy which is included in that number but the significant portion of this is what I would describe as entry-level positions in our U.S.
service-oriented businesses.
And those entry-level positions can be an entry-level equipment operator or an entry-level driver.
These are the first positions that we will have to hire as business improves.
I commented in our prepared remarks that one area of the company where we have maintained a cost structure at this point is in our onboarding and training effort because I'm certain – I don't know when it's going to be Bill but there's going to be a point in time that I turn to the organization and say we need to start adding entry-level people.
And so having internally that backbone to be able to do that is very important.
And it is a skill set that we have not released during this downturn.
So I feel good about our ability to add people when we need them.
I think from an equipment standpoint we have done a lot during the course of 2015 to ensure that the equipment that we have parked on the fence is in condition to go to work immediately.
We spent significant maintenance capital dollars during 2015 for instance in fracturing where as I mentioned before I feel very confident in our ability to stand up about 25% of our total frac fleet today in like new condition and think that we can hire employees in that business at a pace of about 100 a month in order to get utilization back up when the opportunity arrives.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke from Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Daniel.
A much smaller one on the balance sheet Dave.
Could you give us an update on turning assets held for sale into cash? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So we – this is still primarily the assets from the shut down Hallin Marine business.
There's still a couple of boats one which I think will be – or I think – we have a MOA on now that I think will be all for the balance sheet and converted to cash before the end of Q4.
The other vessel is getting a lot of attention but I'm not ready to commit on when it would be gone.
There are also some ROVs and set diving systems that are in that business.
And those are being peeled out over time.
But it's not a great market to be selling those types of assets into clearly but we are seeing interest still on those.
The other large asset that is held for sale now is a derrick barge that is currently in Morgan City Louisiana.
And once again we hadn't had a huge amount of interest on the derrick barge but we've got a few potential buyers in the queue right now.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I'm sorry to return to this but just to be clear I would've thought the majority of the decline you highlighted in snubbing and sand control sequentially would've been on the international side of the business.
But I guess I just was looking for any incremental hints on how to apportion that between international and Gulf of Mexico.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's pretty close to a 50/50 split Daniel.
I mean we had big sand control completion tool delivery that we made in the second quarter in Indonesia.
But we also had substantially less sand control completions revenue in the Gulf of Mexico in Q3.
So you kind of got a double hit on that from Q2 to Q3 and we see the Gulf of Mexico revenue coming back up in sand control completions during the fourth quarter.
Snubbing was probably a bit more related to international than it was to Gulf of Mexico.
Call it 60/40.
That's perfect.
I appreciate that detail.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
The next question comes from the line of Ken Sill from Seaport Global.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
First question talking about this quarter and everybody is saying their customers may quit working between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
I'm wondering A is that what you really expect or do you just really – if I guess could be more of a people don't start new projects after Thanksgiving but they finish up what they've got? And then you guys that are talking about starting up next quarter will they be starting early in January or will it be a slow restart? Do you have a feel for that yet? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So the customers that have – I'll answer the second part of that question first – the customers that have indicated to us that they want to pick up if you will during the first quarter have indicated they want to do it very early in the first quarter.
I do think as I said in our prior comments there will be other customers that gets slow during the fourth quarter and stay slow in January and February.
So I described it as being murky at best then it's murky at best.
So I'm not trying to lead you to a point where we think that Q1 revenues are going to slingshot up as a result of some of these guys reloaded with budgets spending more money.
I've heard people characterize this period between Thanksgiving and Christmas as being a shutdown.
I don't think it's a shutdown.
I think what you'll see during the course of the quarter is just a continued slowdown.
And it may very well be that you've got periods of time during the week of Thanksgiving or during the week of Christmas where customers stop completions activity for a week.
But I don't think that's characteristic of all of the market it's just it's going to demonstrate itself as slow weeks that occur during November and December.
And we always have that to a certain extent it's just probably a bit exaggerated this year.
That's kind of what I was thinking but I wanted to hear somebody in the business say that.
For people to take off five weeks they knew it would be pretty pretty unusual.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That would be exceptionally unusual.
Yeah.
Well we're in exceptional times here.
One area that we haven't heard any commentary on and maybe because it's just because it's too early but it does seem like the Middle East is going to be one of those areas where activity is going to hold up better.
Are you guys seeing any opportunities there that could help next year? Or is it just too early to call? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We hired some new management personnel in the Middle East I guess at the end of Q2 or during the second quarter that I know are aggressively seeking opportunities in the Middle East.
And they're aggressive guys and they're guys that have been successful over time.
I expect that they'll come with some opportunities.
That being said spending – overall E&amp;P spend in the Middle East has held up well in 2015.
I'm not sure it holds up to the same extent in 2016 as these NOCs are coming under a bit of pressure locally with the deficit spending that's taking place in their government.
So I don't know.
We'll see.
We haven't heard specifically about budgets from customers in the Middle East yet.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro from Sterne Agee CRT.
Please proceed with your question.
Agee CRT</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question and it may relate to some of those comments you made about sand control and snubbing but your decrementals were pretty weak sequentially kind of a smaller revenue drop than we saw in the second quarter.
Is there anything behind that we could contemplate as we think about margins going forward? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So I'm sorry that we focused so much attention on snubbing and completion tools because it's cast those businesses into a negative light and the reality is they continue to be two of our more profitable businesses today.
And so the revenue decline that we experienced in those businesses did come with some pretty high incrementals relative to the rest of the business because they're businesses that are profitable and have been profitable and continue to be profitable.
So it influences quite a bit.
I mean as I said those two product lines which cumulatively make up only about $300 million in this company's revenue responsible for half of the revenue decline from Q2 to Q3 and about 25% of the gross margin decline.
Agee CRT</span></strong> Wow.
Okay.
That helps.
And as you mentioned I believe earlier in the call about pressure pumping utilization actually being up but prices down.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Agee CRT</span></strong> How – you had commented a couple quarters ago about kind of working – I think I made – it's a little bit off but working for your better customers and continuing to work for them and kind of working with price.
Is that business – where do you stand on that? How much are you willing to utilize equipment for those customers given that you're probably and maybe I'm putting words in your mouth but you're probably working at at best at breakeven and probably a loss in that business right now.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
In general that business in Q2 and in Q3 produced fairly steady margin I would say.
The utilization was a big higher in Q2.
The revenue was a bit higher in Q3 than Q2 but it's contained within 5%.
And overall margins were about flat.
That's a business it's operating.
If you think about it operating in low-single digits to high-single digits EBITDA margin that's where it's going to stay.
The reason for the revenue variance is mainly just related specifically to the customers that we have been working for being a bit more active during the quarter than they were during Q2.
And during Q2 many of our customers and I mentioned this on our last call at certain times during the quarter we're operating at less than 24/7.
So you just think about it being a little bit higher 24/7 utilization that probably explains it.
Agee CRT</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful commentary.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You got it.
Our next question comes from the line of James Wicklund from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jim.
It sounds like there's no one there operator.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
I think that ends our questions for today.
Thanks to everyone for joining our call and we'll talk to you next quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation and you may disconnect your lines at this time.
Greetings and welcome to the Superior Energy Services Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer section will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Paul Vincent Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you Mr.
Vincent you may now begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining today's conference call.
With me today are Superior's President and CEO Dave Dunlap; and CFO Robert Taylor.
During this conference call management may make forward-looking statements regarding future expectations about the company's business management's plans for future operations or similar matters.
The company's actual results could differ materially due to several important factors including those described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Management will refer to non-GAAP financial measures during this call.
In accordance with Regulation G the company provides a reconciliation of these measures on its website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Dave Dunlap.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Paul and good morning to everyone listening to our call today.
I'll briefly review our fourth quarter activity Robert will discuss segment results and I'll conclude with thoughts on our strategy and outlook before turning the call over to Q&amp;A.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 Superior Energy generated revenue of $545 million adjusted EBITDA of $77 million and an adjusted loss from continuing operations of $61 million or $0.41 per share after excluding special items.
In what has become a persistent refrain the fourth quarter of 2015 was marked by further degradation of industry operating conditions lower rig counts and lower oil prices.
We don't control these variables but we do control our cost structure cash allocation and commitment to maintaining our business at a level of readiness for market recovery.
An internal highlight of the quarter was the conclusion of an extensive U.S.
land and Gulf Coast business unit restructuring and reorganization.
As discussed last quarter this restructuring exercise results in between $40 million to $50 million of annual savings while better positioning us to package our services.
Businesses impacted tended to be non-technologically advantaged labor-intensive service lines such as well service rigs coiled tubing pressure control E-line and slickline.
The result of this effort is a simplified business offering of this broad range of services that we will refer to as Well Services moving forward.
These businesses are now organized in a consistent way throughout the company to serve specific geomarkets in the U.S.
land Gulf of Mexico and each international region.
Superior Energy performs well in these businesses due to our focus on field-level quality and responsiveness.
As a result this process went remarkably well and was led by our field-level business unit managers.
Through this process we made changes which impacted businesses that generated revenue in prior periods but were either made redundant or were marginally economic due to the environment.
We also suspended horizontal well fracturing operations in North Dakota during the quarter although we expect to be active and supportive of our customers there in the future when the market recovers.
These changes improve our competitive position lower costs during this downturn and allow us to be more profitable in an up cycle.
Operationally the U.S.
land business continues to be marred by meaningful overcapacity and pricing pressure.
To highlight how precipitous customer activity declines have been consider that year-over-year our U.S.
land revenues are down 70% and 28% sequentially from the third quarter of 2015.
This is severe even for those of us who would have been through a number of downturns in our careers.
The ugly fact is there continues to be too many competitors who are becoming increasingly distressed financially and making what can politely be described as questionable operational decisions.
The behavior of these competitors is causing the U.S oilfield service industry to weaken even further as these organizations are setting prices significantly below any objective measure of acceptable cash returns.
We have finally begun to see some competitors park assets or exit businesses that were unprofitable for them even during 2014.
This behavior should it continue would be supportive of an improving competitive landscape.
Highlighting the value of diversification and geographic expansion are our Gulf of Mexico and international results.
I've mentioned the weakness in the U.S.
land markets and while the Gulf of Mexico and international markets are impacted by declines in oil prices the competitive issues that are exacerbating U.S.
land declines are not as pronounced in these areas.
Our Gulf of Mexico revenues grew 29% quarter-over-quarter 11% if we consider the performance without the benefit of a contract termination fee that we recorded during the period.
While our rental businesses were off slightly our hydraulic workover and snubbing and completion tools businesses both performed better sequentially but in line with our expectations.
While not immune to slowing activity both businesses are expected to generate lower revenue in 2016.
They highlight the advantage of diversification geographically and represent specialized value-adding services in markets with limited amounts of competitors.
Not surprisingly these businesses can generate positive operating income even in markets like the one we're faced with today.
Moving to our international activity rig activity has continued to recede impacting our Drilling Products and Services segment in which revenues were lower across all of its product offerings.
Offsetting these declines were an anticipated increase in hydraulic workover and snubbing results; an uplift from our well control business and an increase in coiled tubing as additional equipment relocated from the U.S.
was activated.
We continue to execute our international expansion strategy and despite the obvious hurdles posed by the market conditions we believe there are opportunities to continue to win business in select areas.
Even if we're successful our expectation is for international revenues to decline approximately 20% during 2016 as conditions continue to worsen globally in oil and gas markets.
Our entire industry has been impacted by what is now a severe and extended downturn as any in recent memory.
Fortunately for Superior Energy we have a veteran management and personnel across all of our product and service lines.
Our people have responded early and often from the field level to our corporate offices and it has resulted in our maintaining a strong position financially and operationally.
When the market recovers we'll leverage these strengths towards market share gains and rapid improvements in financial performance but for now our near-term priorities are a bit more muted.
As financial distress in our sector increases we believe it prudent to emphasize decision making and capital allocation that prioritizes cash preservation liquidity and financial flexibility.
To that end we expect 2016 capital expenditures to be $100 million or less.
And we will continue to bolster our balance sheet over the course of the year through further cost reductions.
We have also amended and extended our credit facility.
It became evident during negotiations that commercial oil and gas lenders are extremely concerned about the credit quality of the entire oil and gas industry.
While it is somewhat disappointing to have to reduce our credit facility the fact of the matter is that given market conditions and our stated priorities we don't envision a scenario where accessing significant new borrowings will occur until the market shows signs of improving.
More importantly we pushed our nearest term debt maturity out to 2019 and modified the covenants governing our facility to reflect the extent and duration of this downturn.
It's times like these that test all of an organization's relationships and we're proud to work with a diverse group of lenders committed to this industry through the cycle.
The outlook for 2016 is cloudy as it relates to potential cyclical inflection points.
But we do anticipate activity levels to decline as our customers align their spending with current cash inflows.
Our leadership and employees are extremely engaged in evaluating our businesses as closely as possible.
Although we are compelled to evaluate our businesses and forecasts on a monthly basis and in some cases even a weekly basis we will maintain our long-term readiness to respond to a recovery and focus on our core strategic objective of geographic expansion of our product lines.
I'll now turn the call over to Robert for our fourth quarter financial review.
Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</strong> Thank you Dave.
In discussing our operating segments all sequential comparisons have been adjusted to exclude the impact of special items that were disclosed in our earnings release.
Drilling Products and Services segment's revenue decreased 13% to $112 million and an adjusted loss from operations of $8 million compared to adjusted income from operations of $8 million in the third quarter 2015.
U.S.
Land revenue decreased 13% to $29 million; Gulf of Mexico revenue decreased 10% to $50 million and international revenue decreased 18% to $33 million.
The lower revenues across all geographic regions in this segment are attributable to a combination of pricing pressure and lower utilization resulting from further reductions of customer activity and spending.
In the Onshore Completion and Workover Services segment revenue decreased 24% to $154 million and the segment recorded an adjusted loss from operations of $65 million compared to an adjusted loss from operations of $53 million in the third quarter.
Horizontal well fracturing revenue was down approximately 30% during the period.
This is greater than market activity declines and due to suspension of operations in North Dakota during the fourth quarter.
Revenues in this area tended to be among our highest per job historically due to the sale of consumables.
Yet cash returns were also more challenged as operating costs tended to be above average as well.
As a frame of reference well fracturing revenue in North Dakota was just shy of $15 million in Q3 and was zero in Q4 after electing to suspend activity there.
Our well services revenues were down approximately 25% as a result of deliberate discontinuation of certain businesses which we believe would have been challenged from a cash return perspective after we concluded our U.S.
well services reorganization late last year.
These decisions reflect Dave's comments earlier that our near-term focus is on cash preservation and maintaining liquidity in the face of uncertain market conditions.
Our Production Services segment revenue decreased 17% to $135 million which resulted in an adjusted loss from operations of $22 million a slight improvement from a loss of $24 million in the third quarter.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 44% to $48 million due to declines in activity and the closure of businesses and locations included in our U.S.
land well service reorganization.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 14% to $14 million and international revenue increased 12% to $73 million primarily due to expected activity increases in hydraulic workover and snubbing activity.
In the Technical Solutions segment revenue increased 36% to $144 million resulting in adjusted income from operations of $27 million.
During the fourth quarter the primary customer of our Marine Technical Services business discontinued its arctic exploration program and a contract termination fee of $23 million was recorded.
This fee is included in segment revenues for the quarter and is included geographically in our Gulf of Mexico results.
U.S.
land revenue decreased 23% to $12 million due to lower completion tools revenue.
Gulf of Mexico revenue increased 65% to $106 million due to the previously noted contract termination fee increased completion tools revenue from deepwater project sales and increased P&amp;A activity.
International revenue of $26 million was unchanged quarter over quarter.
On a consolidated basis we recorded a pre-tax expense for the reduction in value of assets and other charges of $212 million.
These charges included $176 million of impairments of long-lived assets primarily in our Technical Solutions segment and $36 million for restructuring-related costs related to our product line integration and reorganization.
Turning to the balance sheet at the end of the fourth quarter our debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 4.1 times.
Our debt-to-capital ratio was 43% and our total debt at quarter end remained $1.6 billion.
Offsetting our long-term debt we reported a cash balance of $564 million as of December 31 resulting in unchanged net debt of $1.1 billion.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $28 million and total free cash flow for 2015 was $274 million after full-year capital expenditures of $358 million.
As market conditions continue to deteriorate we expect our ability to generate free cash flow will grow increasingly difficult.
With that in mind our focus for 2016 is to conserve our cash and maintain the integrity of our balance sheet.
While we continue to reduce operating costs and overhead costs across our businesses and manage our working capital efficiently there are further measures we can take to accomplish our goals.
For example we expect our capital expenditures this year to be primarily maintenance-related and continue to be within our operating cash flows.
I'd also remind listeners that our cash dividend payment is a quarterly decision made by our Board and will continue to be evaluated based on its impact to our goals and objectives in future quarters.
As mentioned earlier we have amended our credit facility.
This amended facility is now comprised of a $470 million credit facility which matures in 2019 and no longer has a term loan component.
We also revised the financial covenants of this agreement which now include a net debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to interest coverage ratios as well as a minimum cash balance requirement.
We believe these covenants reflect the changes that occurred in our industry.
We currently have $325 million drawn against the facility.
Other details relating to this agreement can be found in the filing made yesterday.
Most listeners are aware of the concerns surrounding credit in our industry as well as that of our customers.
Given these concerns we believe this agreement which pushes our nearest debt maturity to 2019 is a signal of the strength and quality of the financial institutions we work with and their understanding of our businesses strategy and the cyclical nature of the industry that we participate in.
Reviewing assumptions for the first quarter I'll begin with G&amp;A which was $107 million down from $123 million in the third quarter and is reflective of our continued cost cutting efforts.
For the year G&amp;A totaled $511 million a decrease from 2014 of $113 million or 18%.
We exited 2015 at a quarterly rate substantially lower than that which we entered the year and believe Q1 2016 G&amp;A will be between and $100 million and $105 million.
We expect DD&amp;A after taking into account any reductions associated with the reduction in asset values to be in the range of $138 million to $142 million for the first quarter of 2016.
First quarter interest expense should be in the range of $24 million to $26 million.
Our first quarter effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 34%.
I will now turn the call back over to Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Thanks Robert.
It should be evident from our remarks so far that we don't believe this downturn has bottomed.
We've been vocal for quite some time now that the continued pricing pressure that results from the massive overcapacity of equipment and services primarily in the U.S.
As our E&amp;P customers continue to announce 2016 plans the only visibility we have past the next quarter is that expected levels of spending will be down meaningfully from 2015.
This isn't supportive of any type of recovery scenario in the near term and is causing us to continue to pursue aggressive cost improvements and savings in our business.
Before recapping today's call I'd like to take a step back for our listeners' benefit.
We're almost a year and a half into a downturn in which oil price reductions are causing unprecedented revenue erosion and bankruptcies across the energy complex.
And rig counts are headed towards generationally low levels.
Through this Superior Energy has grown its cash balances and reduced costs meaningfully in a long-lasting fashion without compromising our ability to perform when the markets recover.
Make no mistake we can always do more and as long as we aren't profitable we will.
But how a business is managed in one portion of the cycle will dictate its success in the next.
We will emerge from this down cycle with capacity to pursue market share that we believe few of our competitors will have.
Our service model aligns us with our customers who seek efficient utilization-maximizing service providers.
This model has proven successful through the years and will be even more successful as the cycle continues to play out and smaller operators are either acquired or face restructuring which may hinder their capacity to respond to a recovery.
We believe when a recovery does occur it will be the larger well-capitalized oil and gas customers who we have relationships with and are already our largest customers who will drive initial incremental oilfield spending.
So primary takeaways from today's call are an inline quarter operationally with few surprises $28 million of free cash flow during the quarter which concluded with $564 million of cash on our balance sheet.
An extension of the credit facility to 2019 removing any debt maturity before 2019 significantly lower cost structure when compared to 2015 with additional measures being assessed for 2016 a meaningful reduction of capital expenditure planned in 2016 a customer list that is comprised of leaders in shale offshore and international markets who themselves are financially sound and will be first movers towards activity when oil prices recover.
Finally a dedicated workforce that has not wavered through the many difficult decisions and cost reduction initiatives we've executed over the past 18 months.
And with that operator we'll turn the call over to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We'll now be conducting the question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Our first question is coming from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning Dave.
You having fun yet? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Marshall.
We're having a great time.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
We all are.
Let's talk about the credit facility because I'm just – and I may have my numbers wrong a bunch of companies reporting today but it looks like you have $1.1 billion of net debt and the covenants are 5.5 times which would imply kind of an EBITDA next year in the $200 million-ish range which presumably since you always did this you're fairly comfortable with did I do my math right or am I doing something wrong there? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Marshall our projections don't show us busting covenants.
You may not be aware of the add-backs that the facility allows and I certainly invite you to look at the details in the credit agreement to see that but it's not uncommon to have add-backs to EBITDA and in fact it's not uncommon for companies to have EBITDA measures within their credit facility covenants that are different than the EBITDA numbers that we report for that reason.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
That's all because I haven't had a chance to go through all that.
So adjust for that.
And it seems like the follow-up question then obviously is you have a bunch of cash on the balance sheet and a little bit on the credit line how do you feel about M&amp;A? Do you have room to make it or is this just hunker down no we're not doing anything till we get past the storm? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I don't think that our thoughts on M&amp;A really changed very much from where they were when we visited on this call from last year.
We will continue to be interested in opportunities that are in line with our overall strategies mainly associated with international growth.
We've kicked the tires on a lot of things during the course of the year but clearly we hadn't executed.
And I think part of the reason that we haven't executed on any of the opportunities is it always feels better to execute on M&amp;A when you've got better certainty about the market going forward.
And so what we'll continue to do is to kind of look at the opportunities that are out there and stay involved in the process but execution is going to require a little bit better certainty as to what the future market has to hold for us.
Inc.</span></strong> I assume the deal flow along that line is going up pretty meaningfully recently particularly in pressure pumping? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't know that it's going up meaningfully.
Certainly most of what we've laid eyes on here recently has been very distressed.
And in most cases when I say very distressed that means companies whose financials are very distressed and assets that are very distressed.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you all.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Sean Meakim with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Sean.
So Dave is it fair to say that perhaps you're willing to trade at significant level of liquidity in exchange for that duration to get you out to 2019 perhaps you didn't see a need for that level in the current environment? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well listen as I said in our comments I mean we're disappointed that the overall size of the facility is less but I think when you take it within the context of where the industry is today and attitude from commercial lenders towards the industry today in addition to the overall financial state of not just our company but other companies as well I mean keep in mind this is a credit facility which was – the one that is expiring was done in 2012 at a point in time where we were generating $1.2 billion in EBITDA; it's a little bit less now.
And so you think about in the context of that then there should be an expectation that bank lending facilities are going to be smaller going forward.
Now that's totally fair.
I guess on the cost side are we at a point in the cycle now where the only – and especially as you're getting through with the re-org – are there any more meaningful pockets left to explore or have we reached to the point now where stacking equipment is what's left and we need to cut cost on lower activity? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We absolutely do have more pockets to explore and we will continue – this is an – I've described this all along as an iterative process.
And we will continue to go through iterations of reducing the cost structure in this company to a point where we can approach profitable levels in this kind of market environment.
I guess the process that we've gone through in this iterative process that I describe is one that was very focused last quarter and at the end of Q3 on the well services restructuring but there are other parts of our organization that we'll continue to work on and refine as time goes on to bring down the overall cost structure.
Got it.
That's all fair.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question is from the line of Kurt Hallead with RBC.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Kurt.
You guys laid out pretty solid game plan to kind of manage through the downturn here and obviously getting that deal done clearly helps.
You mentioned not calling for the bottom but can you talk a little bit about how much more intense pricing is getting? Just give us some maybe color or flavor of the slope kind of flattening out here a little bit what's the general sense? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean I would certainly describe the pricing pressure that we are seeing in the field today along with the pricing pressure we saw in Q4 as being – it's minor; it's not like the significant declines that we saw in pricing in the first half of 2015 but it's this pesky nagging type of pricing pressure.
So it's not across every geographic area and every product line at the same time but when you're working at low margins as we all are pesky price declines are – they hurt and so every time you see one you've got to go find a way to go capture that efficiency somewhere else.
One thing we are seeing in the U.S.
services business is very low decrementals on the revenue that were given up.
So that tells me that where we are pressured from a price standpoint we're also finding leverage we can pull from a cost standpoint that allow us to deal with it.
But Kurt it's just pesky pricing pressure that won't go away with the kind of overcapacity that we have.
Okay.
So I think we're all aware of the budget dynamics that are happening in the U.S.
you are not as broad and diverse as the bigger players are internationally but I'm sure you're going to wind up being exposed one way or the other.
So what's your assessment on international and how are you looking to manage through the reductions in spend internationally? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So I mean it is a bit more muted internationally than what we see in the U.S.
land market I should say.
It's very country specific and not every single market is moving downward at the same pace.
As you pointed out we're not nearly as diverse geographically as the large cap guys so we're not a perfect measure of the macro market internationally but are kind of characterize some of the countries I mean in Latin America I think Colombia has probably been the most impact at this point from an activity decline.
I've been quite frankly a bit surprised where Brazil revenue has held up though.
We've seen declines in West Africa mainly in offshore activities and that's impacted our Drilling Products and Services arena.
At the same time we've picked up new contract opportunities in India which was a acquisition expansion that we executed on in 2014.
So it's kind of a mixed bag as a smaller market share player in virtually all the international markets that we're in we're never a perfect marker for the total market and it does give us the opportunity in some cases being a lower market share player to actually step up our revenue with certain contracts we're able to win.
So a bit of a mixed bag.
I mean I think clearly from our comments though we do expect international revenue to be down next year in the 20% range and that could be offset by some contract wins that we're not planning on but I think better to plan for kind of a 20% reduction overall.
And then the decrements on that 20% Dave is it harder to get in front of the cost curve internationally than it is in U.S.
let's say? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean it depends.
Once again I hate to keep referencing country-to-country but each country has a little bit different dynamic there and a little bit difference in the way labor laws work.
So I mean a big part of our cost lever in the U.S.
has been in reduction of head count as well as in reduction of labor cost.
In some countries you get that latitude internationally; in other countries you don't.
So I think there's different levers that you can pull.
Clearly we don't have the same kind of maturity in our infrastructure overall internationally which means that it's already running at a fairly efficient level whereas I'd say in the U.S.
we've had a lot of G&amp;A levers that we've been able to pull probably few of those levers internationally.
So certainly try and get out front of it and the other thing about it I would say is this pricing pressure internationally is nowhere near what we've seen in the U.S.
land market.
So yeah most of the revenue deterioration that I think we'll experience is more related to activity than it is to price.
All right.
That's great color.
I appreciate it Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Blake.
Just thinking about kind of the U.S.
markets and thanks for the number on the comparison on the shutting down of the hydraulic fracturing in North Dakota.
As we look at the rest of the U.S.
results sequentially I think we can leave it to our own imagination in terms of what came out in terms of redundant and marginally profitable business to the restructure.
Do you think you kicked most of that out in 4Q and I guess what I'm trying to understand here is maybe kind of manage first quarter expectations in terms of why you may or may not be in line on the top line front with kind of general activity.
Is there another leg of you – understanding this process is probably iterative too is there another large leg of you kicking out that marginally profitable business that we should be considering as we kind of look into first quarter? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I think it's a great question.
From where we sit today I don't see another significant iteration such as the one that we saw from Q3 to Q4 and I'll try and give you a little bit better color on what – on what some of the things are that we stopped doing in the fourth quarter that we were doing in the third quarter.
So think about – think about for instance our wireline business which is all – now it's all part of a well services organization and may operate it in 20 different districts around the U.S.
And when we rationalized and reorganized we may choose to exit the wireline business in four or five of those markets.
Now the reason we chose to exit is because they were – we couldn't make money in those markets we didn't see through a reorganized structure that was going to lead us to a moneymaking organization.
And so we just discontinued offering the service in that particular market that puts some pressure on top line that doesn't repeat next quarter.
And those are the kinds of decisions that we made as we went through that well services rationalization.
Now could some of that happen going forward I mean the answer to that is yes.
I mean that is where we'll be iterative and we'll continue to evaluate the various product lines within well services on a month-to-month basis and if we see that we've got certain product lines that continue to be a drag on us from a cash standpoint we're not going to tolerate them for long.
So the essence of my answer here is that you probably saw a bit more of that type of discontinued revenue from the third quarter to the fourth quarter than you see going forward but I certainly don't want to promise that you won't see us stop certain unprofitable operations in the future.
Sure.
It would at least – I think as much as we can ask to just think about where the next quarter maybe in this type of market.
And I guess following up on that from an international perspective thanks for the guide and the color.
Is there anything we need to consider just in the first quarter from a service lines standpoint internationally as kind of more of a reset than just a continuum where you would kind of call out the hit year-over-year is going to be more immediate rather than again kind of a continuum over the course of the year? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think so I think you ought to consider it as a continuum.
I mean I do think this that if we say that overall international revenues is going to be down 20% year-over-year that that revenue decline is probably weighted towards the first half of the year versus the second half of the year and that just coincides with budget reductions right.
Right right.
And just let me sneak one more in here.
The asset held for sale figure in this market should we be realistic in maybe thinking perhaps that window is closed here for you? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Surprisingly it's more open today than it was probably in middle of the year 2015.
(35:56).
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So yes we certainly will continue to pursue the sale of those assets.
We've not marked them down to a point just to get them off of the balance sheet and convert it to cash.
There continues to be interest in the asset and I'd say the asset interest is more intense in the last few months than it has been over the course of the last year.
And as I read the agreement those sales proceeds wouldn't be additive to your EBITDA figure for covenant purposes correct? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> They're not additive to EBITDA but they're additive to cash.
Yes the cash balance right.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And remember one of the great features of our new facility is that it considers net debt and so whatever cash we have on the balance sheet offsets that.
Thanks guys.
I'll turn it back.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet.
Our next question comes from the line of Robin Shoemaker with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I just wanted to clarify one thing.
So the term-loan facility that was ended I guess with the new revolver so that converts to a note that matures in 2019 the $330 million or whatever? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Actually it's rolled in as part of the overall facility.
So what you had prior was a facility that was made up of a $600 million revolver and $325 million in term A.
Now what you have is a $470 million revolver and the term A balance is now drawn from that revolver.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
Thank you.
So Dave just one other question you've commented on this in some ways but for several quarters now we hear about the competitors that are willing to work below cash breakeven and there is kind of like a timeframe that most people think that can happen and then they go under but every quarter it seems that you continue to see those.
Now are we talking – I don't know if you can define who we're talking about here but there are some I think larger competitors that are cutting prices as well as smaller.
But will we be talking about this throughout the year from your point of view? Do they have that much staying power? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes I think they all have a different profile.
And I think the peskiest competitors that we see out there from a price standpoint are those that really struggle in execution.
And so you think about how pricing gets set in any market the bottom on pricing always get set by the worst executor.
And the better executors don't necessarily have to match that low price but there's only so much of a premium that operators are willing to pay for better execution.
So what gives me some semblance of hope that as we get through the year we see a little less price competition is if you're a bad executor ultimately customers just aren't going to let you work for them at any price.
And we have certainly seen several of very large competitors in the fracturing business that have essentially suspended their operations as bad executors.
So this is one of those deals you can't control your competitors' behavior.
You can only observe it and choose to act accordingly.
Inc.</span></strong> Right right.
Okay.
Well thank you Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Jim Wicklund with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Jim.
I noticed that this is your fourth amendment to your credit facility.
So I guess we can say that the banks continue to be willing to work with you guys as we go through the cycle.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Excellent observation Jim.
My question on your vessel in Alaska now that Shell's quit drilling what happens to that vessel? What do you do with it? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we will seek a sale of that vessel and I do not expect it to be a sale that results in significant proceeds.
This is a specialty built vessel that – actually it is completely written off from an asset standpoint.
So whatever we're able to get from a salvage standpoint is going to be helpful to our cash balance.
That..
And I assume you were able to take some stuff off of it and bring it home or...
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes we were able to take certain items off of it that we have use for today or continue to have value for us in generating future revenue and profit but this was a specialty built asset and its utility in total is really specifically related to oil spill containment in cold water specifically shallow water Alaska.
Okay.
The second question the impairment in Technical Solutions.
Should we assume that most of that impairment was in the marine technical services or was this in other parts: well control completion tools or other parts of Technical Solutions? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It was not exclusive to the Arctic Containment System but the Arctic Containment System was by far the largest item in that group.
Okay.
That's perfect.
And Robert noted that free cash flow generation will be increasingly difficult in 2016.
We have seen a number of companies who are trying to maintain a 200 basis points or a couple extra people to be able to capitalize on the recovery when it begins to improve.
You guys have said you'll continue to reduce cost to try and be profitable in the current market.
How do you balance that? And can you reconcile that with your free cash flow hopes for 2016? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I think that what you have to do Jim and certainly what we're doing is really being honest with ourselves about what are the product lines in the U.S.
Land market that we really believe we've got an execution advantage and we'll be able to capitalize on significantly higher revenue whenever the market does cycle.
And in those businesses you may choose to retain certain costs that allow to onboard people in a rapid fashion in order to satisfy that particular market environment but I would characterize the cost investment that we have in those things as being minimal.
But clearly as the year goes on you continue to evaluate those and I would not characterize our responsiveness in every product line in the U.S.
as being equal.
To be specific we think that we have our best ability to respond in the upturn in fracturing.
And it's part of the reason why we continue to make investment in rebuilding fracturing assets in 2015 that are parked on the fence right now in new condition.
And so in that business I'd like to be in a position where we have on-boarding capacity to be able to man those fracturing fleets as quick as possible.
Specifically I have told those businesses that I'd like to have that capacity to on-board and staff those fleets one every three weeks.
Okay.
And if I could in keeping with that one company recently reported that it's incorporating perforating capability and electrical submersible pumps and different mud motors into its fracturing offering to broaden and basically bundle that capability.
Do you think that such things for Superior are necessary? Do you think you need to broaden your offering as we come out of this cycle? All the people talk about how it will be a different market coming out of this cycle than it is now.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Are those types of things that you think you might eventually need? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I don't think that I've heard of anything that we need.
But keep in mind that a big emphasis behind the reorganization that we carried out in the fourth quarter to form what I am now referring to is our well services geo-markets was to put us in a better position to package and packaging is something that is advantageous in the market today.
So we're able to go to a single customer and very seamlessly offer not only a fracturing service but we can offer the pipe conduit to perforate if that's coil tubing or if it's the perforating guns themselves we have that wireline business.
If they don't want to use coil tubing we've got the service rig to offer we've got the flowback capabilities to offer we've got the frac stacks and pressure control equipment to offer and we can offer all the equipment that goes along with the service rig including the BOP the pump package the accumulator in a very seamless way.
And so I very much agree with the concept that being able to package as much as possible in this environment as well as in a recovered environment is an advantage and it's exactly what led us to carry out the reorganization that we did last quarter.
Okay David.
Thank you very much.
Very helpful.
Appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Jim.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Marietta with Stephens.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
This is Chris Denison on for Matt Marietta.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Chris.
Inc.</span></strong> How is it going? The GoM improvement this quarter certainly a bright spot.
Wondering if you could talk about the dynamics out there from the customer side competitive landscape work ops that you're seeing maybe what we can expect in the near term and for this year? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
A big part of our improvement from Q3 to Q4 was related to the hydraulic workover and snubbing business and as well as a completion tool business which we kind of telegraphed for you guys when we reported last quarter we thought would be up during the fourth quarter.
I do think that overall the Gulf of Mexico is a market that we will continue to see some deterioration during 2016.
And we certainly won't be insulated from that deterioration.
That being said hydraulic workover is something that does become favored by operators in an environment like this when they can go execute on lower cost workovers as opposed to drilling new wells or doing big recompletions and so the snubbing unit maybe a bit more favored in this environment than it has been in recent years.
Completion tools will I think probably continue to be under a little bit of a decline in 2016 as the numbers of deepwater completions are just going to get reduced.
Our plug and abandonment business has been a bit better than I would've expected at this point in the year and some of that is related to some deepwater P&amp;A work that we're doing today.
So I clearly think Gulf of Mexico market is going to continue to come down.
I think we do have some product lines that may perform better than the market overall specifically in the area of snubbing and P&amp;A.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Understood.
And then kind of related is there any indication or any color you could provide at this point what Technical Services revenues and margins might look like at least directionally in relation from this quarter? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
I don't know that we've provided any specific quarter-to-quarter guidance on any of the segments from that standpoint.
The challenge in Technical Services I understand the challenge the market has it tends to be a bit lumpier than some of our other segments.
We won't have noise in the first quarter related to some of the asset impairments and contract terminations that we have in Q4 but the product lines in that segment by their nature tend to be a bit lumpier than our other businesses.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
I'll turn it back over.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Daniel.
Dave the Production Services' decrementals have been pretty modest the last few quarters.
When we look at that decline in U.S.
Land over that time in the Gulf the narrative would seem to be international's holding up.
You've kind of alluded to that and I guess maybe you got out of the market or two like Mexico where profitability was less than notable.
But could you add any color to maybe what's driven the ability to defend Production Services as that top line has continued to drop? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes sure.
I think Production Services is the segment that is probably most impacted by the reorganization that we did at the end of the third quarter and during the fourth quarter and forming these well services geo-market organization.
So they are the beneficiaries of a lot of the cost reductions that we've had and I'd also say that if I thought about discontinued product lines in some of the areas where well service operates probably have a bit of a production services weight to them.
So this is where we're reducing the overall cost in those businesses plus discontinuing businesses that were operating at losses is helping us.
Okay.
And I think it's tough for you guys to break it out this way but do you think then as soon as Q4 you saw improved profitability on the U.S.
onshore portion of Product Services sequentially? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think if it was it was very slight.
I think more likely it was pretty close to flat.
But yes it's we got a benefit from improving the cost basis from Q3 to Q4.
Fair enough.
And then one other one if I understood you correctly you guys were out of Bakken frac as at end of Q3.
But did you have any vestigial cost there that you bore in Q4 that are lapping off as we hit Q1? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So what we did is we idled our fracturing equipment in the Bakken.
We still have other businesses that operate there.
But from a fracturing standpoint we idled our equipment.
And so we do continue to have cost associated with facility and kind of if you want to think about cold stacking type cost I guess related to that facility that continue in North Dakota.
And I commented I fully expect that at some point in the future we will be back to fracturing in North Dakota.
We've got great customer relationships there.
And I know that the customer that we were fracking for in the third quarter that they will be back to spend money at some point in time and they'll want us working for them.
So we'd like to maintain a certain degree of readiness to do that in the future.
It's not costing us very much.
Okay great.
Thank you for the comments.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Gacicia with KLR Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I'd like to talk about kind of the competitive landscape a little bit and frankly I'd like to kind of talk about outside of the category of pressure pumping.
When you look at kind of where everybody's CapEx numbers are and how equipment seems to be in some form of attrition or a lack of spend what do you think as you look across other product lines outside of pressure pumping and coiled tubing electric line kind of go down the list.
What's the competitive landscape looking like where do you think the amount of capacity is relative to maybe where it was a year ago.
I'm just trying to get a sense everybody seems to kind of pressing against pressure pumping to kind of figure out where that supply number is but how does it look across other product lines? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll try and give you some color on this.
And I think the reason why people refer to pressure pumping is pressure pumping probably wears out faster than anything else.
And so the wear and tear in pressure pumping puts it at kind of one end of the spectrum as far as assets that if they are not invested in rebuild will wear out the fastest.
But I think there are a lot of other things that may not wear out quite as fast as frac but they wear out pretty quick.
So think about flowback and flowback iron and flowback iron has a life to it.
And flowback iron if it's not replaced on a regular basis – and that's an investment in new equipment you're ultimately getting smaller and smaller in your ability to provide those services really anything in pressure control.
The pressure control equipment does wear out and it needs to be rebuilt or recertified or replaced if it falls below its minimal pressure rating.
And so those are also things that over a period of time also will wear out fast.
Coiled tubing units don't wear out very fast.
The coiled tubing pipe does but the coiled tubing pipe is replaceable I mean the guts of the coiled tubing unit including the injector head and the gooseneck and the power pack and reel and all those things actually have a pretty long life to them.
And so this is not an asset that degenerates as quickly as fracturing or maybe as quickly as pressure-control iron or flowback iron or things like this.
You asked about cased-hole wireline cased-hole wireline doesn't wear out very fast.
I mean it's a unit that can be in the market for seven years or eight years without having any kind of major rebuild.
So everything is on a different point on that kind of lifecycle spectrum.
I think people talk about frac the most because it clearly wears out the fastest.
Sure.
So when you look at it is there in terms people exiting the market and the rest and again outside of the pressure pumping have you seen more or less moves in any one of the product lines in terms of where you think some of the slight capacity has come and gone away and it's just because the operator may have gone away and does that equipment just reemerge through auction or how do you think that that kind of works out? How does it play out? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean auction value of many of these assets is not going to be very good.
We've seen some pressure pumping auctions with pretty good assets that are not generating very good revenue.
I'm not sure what auctioning of used flowback iron or used BOPs or used drill pipe or used cased-hole wireline markets would be.
I just don't think there is much of a market for it.
Does it show back up again? It could.
It certainly could.
Got you.
One last one you made some mention I think in your opening comments about pricing and pricing from people who are being acquired or something like this.
I was trying to get a sense of what the – if I misheard that and I think it was with regard to pressure pumping.
Are you kind of seeing the final flails from people that are going away and what's the dynamic that's happening there on the pricing side specifically with regard to I think the comment you made with regard to people are being acquired? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> If I made that comment I misspoke.
It certainly is not related to companies that are being acquired I didn't categorize anybody quite that well.
I said that they were pesky competitors that continue to be – there are – and there are continuing to be competitors out there that seem to be willing to work at the low cash margins which is not something that we will do and as I said and pointed out we've had businesses that we discontinued from Q3 to Q4 because they were reaching that category so.
But it was not specific to companies that are being acquired.
Well I just wanted to make sure I heard you correctly.
Thanks a lot for the time.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question is from the line of Jud Bailey with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Jud.
Question on your international operations you gave some kind of broad commentary on what you think revenues could decline.
Could you maybe comment a little bit Dave on where you see the biggest areas of risk if you were to come in say below that number? What countries do you think would present the most risk to you this year with oil prices where they are? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean we've got a pretty good distribution of where revenue occurs.
I mean there is a bit of concentration of revenue.
Our larger revenue generating areas internationally are in the UK North Sea as well as Argentina and Brazil.
Those are probably the highest on our list but they're still not terribly concentrated.
I mean this is part of the benefit of still being relatively small on international without it being one particular country that would just really present huge exposure for us.
Okay.
And then trying to think about you talked a little bit earlier about decrementals internationally and the labor force mechanics in some of these areas.
Can you help us think about your international main margins of profitability and thinking about them over the course of this year and into 2017? Do you think that becomes less of a drag in the back half of the year or do you think we kind of see a steady move down over the course of the year as activity declines? Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean I think what we've seen during the course of 2015 was kind of a steady decline.
I think whatever decline we see in international this year which we kind of put it big broad number 20% I think we probably see the bulk of that decline in the first half of the year quite frankly.
I mean I think that in a similar way to U.S.
operators that we will be bringing down their budgets consistent with cash flows that's going to happen during the first half of the year and then you're likely to be I guess flatter.
I mean my personal thought would be markets continue to be pushed down at a $30 price environment but I think it comes down the most in the first half of the year and then it's flatter as you look at the second half of the year.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciate the color.
I will turn it back.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Our next question is from the line of Chase Mulvehill with SunTrust Robinson.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Chase.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
I'm going to go back to – I'm sorry if you have already asked this and if you did you can just say we already did and we'll will move on.
So Drilling Product and Services did you talk about margin declines and kind of what drove that sequentially? We don't have the gross profit yet but it appears that gross profit margins fell pretty materially so I don't know if you've talked to that already.
If you have I will go back and read through in the transcript.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
I have not talked about it.
I mean obviously the margin decline was driven by revenue decline and we saw revenue decline in Drilling Products and Services in all of our international regions.
I don't know that it was any one particular country that led the way but Colombia was impacted West Africa was impacted North Sea and Asia were impacted.
And of course the decremental margins that come with the rental businesses are going to be high because the fixed cost associated with them are very low.
So that's really the predominant reason why you'd see margin gross margin deterioration in those businesses that are higher than what we see in other business lines.
Inc.</span></strong> So gross profit margins have been running north of 60%.
Should we think that sequential decremental margins continue in the 60% range for the next few quarters for DPS? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think that's reasonable and I'm not giving you an answer with this comment but the question would be whether or not we've seen the biggest reduction that we're going to see in Drilling Products and Services already occur.
And I don't know that we fully understand when we look at 20% decline in international revenue is that weighted more towards Production Services or Drilling Products and Services.
I don't know we're prepared to give you an answer on that one yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So my point is if Drilling Products and Services revenue were to hold up better than Production Services revenue then you're not going see as great a decremental margin.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
What's the delta what's the difference in margins between the international Gulf of Mexico and U.S.
land for DPS? Is there a wide range between those three I'm assuming there is obviously U.S.
land? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Historically and this would still hold true our most profitable market for Drilling Products and Services is the Gulf of Mexico.
International and U.S.
land margins historically have been similar.
I would say that where we sit today the Gulf of Mexico margins continue to be the highest.
And that international margins are now higher than U.S.
land margins.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right I'm going to try to squeeze a couple in before you go see Wicklund (1:01:16).
So let's see on the term loan why are you using the revolver to pay off the term loan rather than your cash? Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</span></strong> So the revolver is – the new facility is a single facility that does not include a term piece and a revolver piece; it is just a revolver.
If the question is why did do we choose to maintain cash as opposed to paying down debt? And I think everybody's got a different position at their end with their bank facility and ours happens to reward us having cash.
And so we've kept the cash on the balance sheet to maintain maximum financial flexibility and that has certainly worked to our advantage now.
And I think this facility that we're able to negotiate is done in such a way that it recognizes the cash that we have on the balance sheet so we get credit from it from a net debt standpoint.
You say well okay you got a little bit higher interest cost associated with not paying down revolver debt but revolver debt is the cheapest interest we have.
And so we've got a very low price that we're paying for tremendous financial flexibility going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
What's the difference in the interest rate between the – what the term loan interest rate was in the revolver just so we can help this from a modeling standpoint? Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> None.
Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</span></strong> None.
Inc.</span></strong> None.
Okay all right.
The last one I'm going to squeeze in and then I'll turn it back over.
If from an activity standpoint 2016 looks a lot like 2015 how much working capital or cash from working capital can you generate this year? Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean listen we did a great job in 2015 from a collection standpoint.
I mean we had a DSO that was pretty strong entering January 2015 and we held that DSO flat during the course of the year which in this environment I thought was incredibly impressive and maybe a bit more difficult to do in 2016.
Clearly we're going to have a close eye on our customers' ability to pay.
I would not be surprised as I expected DSO to go up during 2015 and it didn't.
I would not be surprised to see DSO creep up a bit in 2016.
So you're going to have a overall balance in receivables that could be offset by a bit higher DSO.
I don't know that we've got great clarity on that yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Is it fair to assume to be positive and then just say it's less than $100 million? Treasurer &amp; Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean get back with us on that Chase I am sure Paul can give you some better flavor on model building.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All righty.
I'll turn it back over.
Thanks Dave.
Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Chase.
Thank you.
At this time I will turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer</strong> Okay.
Well listen I'd like to thank everyone for joining us on the call today and we'll speak to you next quarter.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.