Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Steve Mueller President and CEO.
Thank you Mr.
Mueller.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
With me today are Greg Kerley our CFO; and Brad Sylvester VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our first quarter 2011 results you can find a copy on our website at www.swn.com.
Also I would like to point out that many of our comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more details in the risk factors and the forward-looking statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe these expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they're not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
To begin I'm excited that we continued to deliver top-tier results and am equally enthusiastic about the rest of 2011.
We continue to maintain well cost while growing production and yesterday we increased our guidance for the rest of 2011 to take into account our first quarter results and a stronger production we are seeing from the Fayetteville and the Marcellus.
We posted production growth of 28% during the quarter fueled by our Fayetteville shale play which grew by 34% with production of 101 BcF.
We also produced 7 Bcfe from our East Texas 4.2 Bcf from the Arkoma Basin and 2.8 from the Marcellus Shale which we kicked off in late 2010.
Now I'll talk about each of our operating areas.
We placed 137 operated wells on production at Fayetteville Shale during the first quarter which resulted in gross operating production reaching 1.7 Bcf a day at March 31.
Our operated horizontal wells had an average completed well cost of $2.8 million per well with an average drill time of 8.4 days during the first quarter.
We also placed 11 wells on production during the quarter that were drilled in 5 days or less.
Due to our fast drilling times we have increased our 2011 capital investments program by $100 million to a total of $2.0 billion for the company.
As a result we expect to drill at least 30 additional wells in the Fayetteville Shale this year than we had previously planned.
Our average initial producing rates were approximately 3.2 million cubic foot per day which is down from the fourth quarter primarily due to location differences and the mix of wells and increased line pressures.
In March we placed several wells on production in our most northern areas of the field which encountered higher line pressures than the rest of the field.
This had an effect of lowering initial pressure rates for those wells.
We continue to test tighter well spacing and at March 31 we have placed over 764 wells on production that have well spacing of 700 feet or less representing approximately 65-acre spacing.
To date we have concluded that approximately 30% of the roughly 600 000 net acres drilled to date to be developed at 30- to 50-acre spacing and approximately 70% can be developed at a maximum of 65-acre spacing.
We are still refining our conclusions with the goal of determining individual spacing for each section.
Interference testing is ongoing field-wide geologic and production models continued to be refined and additional spacing tests that are being drilled by other operators in the field.
In northeast Pennsylvania we have approximately 173 000 net acres prospective for the Marcellus Shale.
We are very encouraged by what we've seen to date.
At March 31 we have completed the 14 operated Marcellus Shale wells on 5 pads located in our Greenzweig area and Bradford County.
Net production in the area was 2.8 Bcf in the first quarter compared to 0.8 Bcf in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In our Greenzweig area our practice is to place several wells on production from a single pad at the same time and the results continue to be strong.
Three wells that were placed on production in October 2010 are currently producing at an average rate of 6.3 million cubic foot per day per well; while 3 wells placed on production in November of 2010 are currently producing at an average rate of 4.3 million cubic foot per well; and 3 wells placed on production in February are currently producing at an average rate of 5.8 million cubic feet per day per well.
On April 18 we placed 3 additional horizontal wells on production at a gross rate of over 4 million cubic foot per day per well.
These wells are still cleaning up and they're also flowing up casing.
Rates will increase after the installation of production tubing.
All of our wells are currently producing without the benefit of compression into line pressures of approximately 1 100 pounds and gross operating production from the area is currently 60 million cubic foot per day.
In March 2011 we entered into a letter of intent with DTE Energy to gather our future natural gas production from our Eastern Range Trust area in Susquehanna County.
Final terms of the gathering agreement are currently being negotiated.
However first volumes to be delivered to the interstate pipeline could be as early as the second quarter of 2012.
We have also recently executed agreements with both Millennium Pipeline and the Tennessee Gas Pipeline which will increase our ability to move Marcellus gas to premium markets.
I know that there are probably several questions about our New Ventures and let me make a few statements.
First in New Brunswick the acquisition of approximately 410 miles of TD data is scheduled to begin in May and will continue through the third quarter.
We also plan to do another phase of geochem acquisition that is planned to start in the third quarter.
At the beginning of the year we reported approximately 490 000 net acres in our new venture plays that were not part of New Brunswick.
As of April 15 we have more than 620 000 net acres leased and are still on schedule for drilling at least 2 wells in the second half of the year.
In our other areas we participated in drilling 2 wells in East Texas during the quarter both of which were operated.
In March 2011 we entered into a definitive purchase and sale agreement for the sale of certain oil and natural gas -- oil and natural gas leases wells and gathering equipment in Shelby San Augustine and Sabine counties in East Texas for approximately $85 million.
The effective date of the sale is January 1 2011 and the standard closing adjustment will include -- it will include natural gas sales proceeds and capital invested in 2011 part of the closing.
The sale includes only our producing rates from the Haynesville/Middle Bossier Shale intervals approximately 997 net acres.
The net production from the Haynesville/Middle Bossier Shale intervals in this acreage was approximately 7 million cubic foot per day as of April 15 and proven net reserves were approximately 25 Bcf as of year end 2010.
We expect the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2011.
In closing we're excited about our development of Fayetteville Shale.
We're increasing our activity in Pennsylvania and have on track drilling our first New Ventures wells over the next few years.
I will now turn it over to Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our financial results.
Good morning.
As Steve noted our financial and operating results for the quarter were stronger than we expected and continued to highlight our industry-leading low-cost structure.
We reported earnings for the first quarter of $137 million or $0.39 a share compared to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 of $172 million or $0.49 a share.
Our discretionary cash flow was $392 million in the first quarter compared to $418 million for the same period in 2010.
The comparative decreases in earnings and cash flow were primarily due to the decline in natural gas prices.
Our average realized gas price of $4.12 per Mcf was down more than $1 from the same period last year.
Our commodity hedging activities increased our average gas price by $0.44 per Mcf during the quarter and with the favorable storage report yesterday we were able to hedge some additional volumes for 2011.
And currently have NYMEX price hedges in place on notional volumes of 171 Bcf of our remaining 2011 gas production at a weighted average floor price of $5.26.
As a reminder our hedge position combined with the cash flow generated by our Midstream Services business which is not dependent on gas prices provides protection on approximately 55% of our total expected cash flow for 2011.
Operating income for our E&amp;P segment was $178 million during the quarter down from $250 million over the same period last year.
Our all-in cash operating costs which include lease operating expenses general and administrative expenses taxes other than income taxes and net interest expense were $1.30 per Mcf equivalent for the first quarter of 2011 and remains one of the lowest in our industry.
Our full cost full amortization rate also declined dropping to $1.31 per Mcf in the quarter from $1.41 in the prior year.
The decline in the average amortization rate was primarily the result of the sale of the East Texas property Steve noted earlier as the proceeds from the sale were credited to the full cost pool.
Lower acquisition and development costs also contributed to the decline.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment increased by 43% in the first quarter to $54 million.
The increase in operating income was primarily due to the increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus shale plays partially offset by increased operating costs and expenses.
At March 31 our Midstream segment was gathering approximately 1.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day doing 1 623 miles of gathering lines in the Fayetteville shale play compared to gathering approximately 1.5 billion cubic feet per day a year ago.
At March 31 we had $531 million borrowed on our $1.5 billion credit facility at an average interest rate of around 2 1/4% and had total debt outstanding of a little more than $1.2 billion.
This leaves us with a debt-to-book capital ratio of 28% and a debt-to-market capitalization ratio of only 8%.
That concludes my comments so now we'll turn back to the operator who'll explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> In the Marcellus obviously those are pretty strong well results and given that -- are you all thinking about potentially stepping up activity a little bit and is there ability to do so or is it more of an infrastructure-related constraint? We will step up some of our activity as we noted I think last conference call.
We've got one rig running right now.
That rig count will go up here in a few months to 2 rigs.
Well that's at a year or 2.
Then as we look into 2012 as we get more of this capacity in and we mentioned that DTE deal is in early 2012 you'll start seeing more rigs go out in the field especially in our eastern acreage.
But right now we can run 1 to 2 rigs through the rest of the year and we've got takeaway for that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you're playing it to your capacity okay.
And then on the New Ventures play it sounds like you guys increased your position fairly meaningfully during the last update.
I guess can you sort of give a little bit of color on it in terms of do you think there's more acreage to be picked up? And is this to all in one specific area or a couple of areas? And when do you feel comfortable about giving us some further details here? As the far as acreage goes  we've  report already whether it's on -- whether a Q or a K or it's whether it's sort of what I just said today is the acreage that you've done basically 3 things on.
You signed the deal you've done the title work on you've confirmed that they actually have the mineral rights and you paid the check.
There's obviously some acreage out there that we've signed deals with people on that were right and doing title work on and then we'll pay the check unless you have a lease on hand and can file the lease.
And then there's acreage you want to get -- it's kind of a rolling sequence as you go through it.
We still certainly have several contracts that we have signed with groups and the individuals who we think they own the mineral rights and was working title on that.
So you're going to see the numbers go up and then we also got more acreage we want to get.
And the old concept was that we thought it would take at least through the first half of the year to get the acreage that we wanted on the first projects that we're going to drill and then we could go drilling in the second half of the year.
As far as how many projects are we working on -- more than one we are working on more than one.
Just to remind everybody the thought concept here is that over the next 5 years we'll drill a couple of these a year and have a total of 10 drilled over 5 years.
Some years may be one some years maybe 3 or 4 but in that group of 10 that you drill over 5 years we're expecting 2 to 3 to be successful and those 2 to 3 add up to be at least as much as what the Fayetteville shale is going to be for us.
And so you're in the very beginnings of seeing that roll out and we're in different stages in picking up acreage because of that.
In some cases we're just starting to pick up acreage.
In other cases like the ones we'll drill this year play to this year we're getting closer to the drilling [ph] acreage from that perspective.
So that's kind of the game plan as it goes out.
As far as when you'll hear more as we get the acreage in place and we're getting to the point we're starting drilling wells we'll start talking about where the acreage is at how many wells we think it's going to take to determine if it's going to be good or bad and what the schedule we'll have to drilling those wells.
LLC</strong> But will you comment on sort of the liquids versus gas? I know you guys look at rate of return but will you talk about the liquids versus gas balance in some of these areas? Well we as you said were -- from a looking forward since we're looking out 4 to 5 years in advance we haven't put a bias on anyone as far as looking forward saying we look just for gas or we look just for oil.
We do have some oil plays.
We do have some gas plays.
We are picking up acreage on some oil plays and some gas plays and we're trying to accelerate the oil.
There's always the chance that you can't accelerate the oil and the gas plays come up first.
But if I had to guess right now those first wells will be in oil play.
LLC</strong> Okay I appreciate the color.
Our next question comes from Scott Wilmoth with Simmons &amp; Company.
I'm just trying to get a better understanding of the capital allocation with the increased budget obviously increasing in the Fayetteville with additional wells but also losing East Texas.
Can you kind of just help us walk through the moving pieces on that? There's not a whole lot of moving pieces there.
We were drilling some wells in East Texas to hold some acreage until we sold it.
And that's one of the reasons that it's a 1/1 date and we'll be reimbursed for that capital that we invested there.
So there's going to be when you look at the later season and reports furnished you see we got some capital invested in East Texas and then we'll also have income on the other side that were reimbursed for that.
But as we look forward to the rest of the year in East Texas we'll have very little capital spending in East Texas which is what we really started the year with from a net-net affect we would only have a couple of wells in the James Lime that we'd have real true capital for and production with that.
And that really goes with our Conventional Arkoma as well.
Most of the increase in capital and when I say most of it of that $100 million close to $8 million of that is just the fact that we drilled faster in the Fayetteville Shale.
We started the year and in general put into kind of perspective -- last year we averaged just over 10 days per well between 10 to 11 days to drill a well.
We started the year thinking we're going to average over nine days just over nine days for the year.
Then at -- really our last call in February we adjusted that down to just a little less than eight days and now we're thinking we're in the mid-8s to low 8s for what's going to happen for the rest of the year in total number of days to drill a well.
And what that's done is created the ability to drill more wells same number of ridge running.
And when you think about what we're trying to learn this year there were 2 big things we're trying to learn -- we want to continue getting the information on the spacing and work that out so we'd know what to drill when we get to the pad drilling towards the end of the year.
The other thing we were trying to figure out on what we want to do is how fast can we really drill so we know how many rigs we need to run to get to certain well counts and things of that direction.
And what's happening is we're learning we can drill faster than we thought.
So really the capital budget almost entirely is an increase because we're learning we can do it faster.
So how does that change your kind of long-term rig assumptions in the play over the next couple of years? I don't know exactly the answer to that yet.
But again kind of put in perspective 2 years ago we drilled about 500 wells and took 15 rigs.
Last year we did just under 13 rig average and drilled about 550 wells.
And this year looks like we drilled about 500 wells on 11 rigs.
So I don't know exactly what we'll end up the year with or how many wells we can drill per rig but once we figure that out then we can say is 11 the right number 12 is the right number 10 the right number.
And so that's something later in the year to figure out.
And then moving on the Midstream I think you guys are nearing the end of your strategic alternatives audit can you just kind of give us an update on thoughts on kind of monetization timing given that you're going to have a production ramp here in this year and next? Well Scott this is Greg.
You're right in that we are in the last innings of the audit a 3-year audit that we're performing on the financial statements.
So that's nearing its end and we're still trying to determine the best path for -- from a strategic standpoint and expect that that decision we've made probably in the last half of this year.
Our next question comes from Nick Pope with Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> A quick question on the spacing I know you talked a little about in the past but whenever you look at the 30- to 50-acre spacing and the 65-acre spacing what kind of interference are you expecting with wells kind of offsetting one another with those spacing? I think a good estimate right now would be around 10%.
In the past we talked about in some areas as close as low as 6% to 7% in some areas it's 12%.
But I think that 10% is a good average number as you look out in the future.
And the other thing about the spacing we're making all these comments really with wells that has 6 months or less production on them on a lot of these ones we did last year.
And so expect in the next 2 couple of quarters we can talk more about exactly what the interference we're seeing and maybe -- there maybe some slight revisions on that 30/70.
If there have been revisions it would be to a closer spacing not a farther spacing.
So you may see some couple of percent difference change in that also.
LLC</strong> And then with the Marcellus the 60 gross number what is that on a net basis on the current production? We're up to 50 million a day net.
If you think about our -- right now we're drilling about 95% working interest and our net interest to us is about 85% so 0.95 times 0.85.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Based on the improved results and efficiencies you're seeing and the extent to which you're comfortable spending above cash flow what do you see as the key pricing points for natural gas where you would raise or lower activity in the Fayetteville? I think we want to stay within a shot of cash flow neutral.
And when I say within shot if you think about what we're doing this year the Fayetteville Shale all of our conventional properties all were within cash flow.
And the only places where we're investing that's outside of cash flow is the $180 million in New Ventures and then we're getting some cash flow on the Pennsylvania side but whatever is the net difference on Pennsylvania.
So we're couple of hundred million $200 million and $300 million outside cash flow and we want to continue doing that going forward.
So to the extent that production increases that gives us more cash flow.
The other thing we are as Greg said continuing to hedge our target if we can do it will be to have about 50% of this year's production hedged at $5 or more and we've been able to do that so far.
If that works if you'd average for instance $4 for the rest of the year our average that we give is well over $4.50.
And as we look out 2012 2013 we will put the hedges out there as well.
So the idea is to make sure that we've got the cash flow to do what we want to do more than it is just to try to live outside of cash flow or try to hit a certain number of rigs or well count or production whatever that is.
Got it thanks.
And then secondly can you talk to people needs and where you stand as you ramp up? And then maybe also touch on whether you're planning asking allocation at human resources to some of your New Ventures? I think from a total company wide-need we're in good shape.
We geared up really a couple of years ago to run even more wells than we have now.
It's really more rigs and we've got less rigs running.
So that helps a little bit on the people side but we've got an ongoing hiring campaign.
We got -- I think it's 40 summer interns coming in and we've got something like 20 new hires coming in here over the next few weeks so we continue that program as well.
So I think we're okay on the people side.
When we start thinking about New Ventures we're in the beginning of this cycle where we're going to drill a couple of these a year.
If you just assume that it takes 7 8 9 wells to prove up a large acreage block then starting in 2012 you're going to see us drill several wells on New Venture projects.
So it will be a couple this year but it could be 10-plus next year and then that will be kind of a running rate between 10 and 20 for the next 4 or 5 years.
So we will have to allocate and are allocating some of our manpower to that and they're already working that direction and we've already got some people assigned to that.
So I don't think there'll be any issues in that direction.
Now obviously if we find something and it is significant then you're on a whole new game and we've already talked about that.
We have the skill sets and we've got enough man strength to pull out key people to move into a project -- if it's a brand-new project and selling behind for the most part with less experienced people.
Our next question comes from Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
For the New Ventures the 620 000 acre project that you're looking at can you give us an idea Steve of what the sort of sequence of events is going to be in a sense of -- are you going to need to run like in the New Brunswick area are you going to need to run geochem and 3D seismic or do you know more about these new areas that you can almost immediately start drilling? New Brunswick is I would say the far end member of anything we do exploratory.
There we think we found a new basin and so you had to start with "Did you find a new basin?" And we confirmed that.
Then you have to decide whether you had a hydrocarbon generation system.
We've done geochem to figure out that and now we're doing seismic to figure out the general regional geologies so we started locating wells.
So that's a 2 or 3 year process we -- on that end member.
The other projects we're working almost everyone of them have enough seismic have enough data in them that once we get the acreage together we will be able to drill wells soon after getting an acreage together.
In a couple of instances we may want to shoot one or 2 seismic lines before we drill a well but none of them have the lead time issues that we'd have in the New Brunswick area.
And with regards to the downspacing can you remind me is your expectation that the tighter spacing areas where you can have the tighter spacing are those the areas where you have better or poorer wells to begin with? It's a combination.
We have good wells on there.
The downspacing is kind of the center part of the field.
It's not on the outside portfolio so it's in the what I call the heart of the field.
But for the most part it's also in some of the very thicker parts of the rock as well.
So it's a combination of thickness of rock gas and plays and also the characteristics of the rock which are kind of in that central part of our play.
So do you think the expectation is that in the thicker region that the downspacing would be to do wells that are taking [ph] each other but it's somewhat different depths so that you more fully penetrate the thickness? There could be one area in the field that that could happen.
We've got in the thickest parts of the field the upper and lower Fayetteville are separated by a line and we're right now doing testing to figure out how well we're draining.
We land our wells normally in the lower Fayetteville how well we're draining the effort.
And we've actually done a couple of our spacing tests where we did land too low and one high; and in one case we saw no communication; in another case we saw a communication.
So we are working on that right now.
But you may in the future see us drill some upper Fayetteville wells that would be different than the lower.
And when I talk about spacing here we're basically talking landing the lower end hoping that it would connect to most of the rock.
The other thing I would just mention to everyone we talked about the Moorefield in the past and we have drilled a couple of Moorefield wells at the end of last year.
One of those are on production and it's giving us some encouragement.
And so you may see us talk more about the Moorefield which is down just below the Marcellus -- I'm sorry the Fayetteville on the eastern side of the field.
So you may have a program there that would be different and an addition to all the things we're talking about spacing here.
Our next question comes from Rehan Rashid from FDR.
Quick couple of questions.
One on the cost structure side what kind of inflation are you witnessing in the Fayetteville and what's the outlook number one? And maybe another one for Greg feels like the balance sheet is under levered even before the Midstream monetization call it.
Some thoughts on that front? And then I might have one more follow-up.
As far as the cost and cost pressures in the Fayetteville Shale we remind everyone we're very integrated in several of the things were doing.
So the biggest -- the 2 areas that we have to worry about is the casing and tubulars and then also the pumping services.
Pumping services we have contracts with all of the vendors so we're doing that through basically first quarter.
It goes through February next year.
And so we already know those costs how those are built in and you would seen a reflection of that in the first quarter.
On the tubular casing side we have seen about 6% increase in costs over the last 4 or 5 months.
And that mainly has to do with basically some of the Japanese deal that didn't take out in the world market and causing the whole world market to go up.
I don't know what they predict there just to say that we got a little bit of cost upward pressure on the steel side of it.
On the balance sheet side we're about 28% debt-to-cap.
There's a lot of things obviously that could affect our program going forward especially in the second half of the year.
Again as we continue to see positive results in the Marcellus and the speed of drilling in the Fayetteville.
When you combine that with New Ventures if we have early results positive results in New Ventures that could cause us to want to run at that a lot harder.
So there's a lot of unknowns and that also kind of coincides with the timeline of deciding what we want to do with the Midstream what is the best answer for the company on a path forward there.
So that's why really a lot of that stuff that will kind of fall into place in the second half of this year.
And we are cognizant of trying to maintain a very strong balance sheet but also that we're appropriately leveraged.
And I'd like to reinforce Greg's comments we don't have any clue what our gas prices are going to be in the future.
And so we are going to manage with a conservative balance sheet that will be the case.
And then the other part of it is -- the reason we're looking at Midstream is we want to make sure that we get maximum value on every one of our assets for our shareholders and we're just looking at Midstream to figure out how and when that maximum value is going to be there.
So if it's now we'll do something now.
And if it's later we'll do something later.
And so really there we'll take into account all the tax ramifications for shareholders and us as well on the Midstream.
And we'll also figure out what the maximum value is.
And if it's not now then we won't do anything now.
Two more quick questions.
What portion of the guidance increase was because of new wells -- incremental wells and how much better base production? And then second on the Canadian the far set of geochem work any incremental thoughts there? What did it tell you so that you're progressing on the second set now? Let me start with the New Brunswick geochem.
In that geochem we were surprised pleasantly in that all of the survey areas that we did showed both oil and gas generation signatures.
And what we want to do now is kind of infill in and pick specific areas and make sure that first off the first part geochem showed us the right data and actually do some more detailed work to kind of get a general feel for that.
When you start talking about the increase in production there's really in my mind a couple of things that's happened in the first quarter on production increase.
We did put some more wells on production.
We actually drilled 7 more wells than we had planned because of the days.
We had about I would say it's over 10 10 to 12 wells that really on our original schedule would've been later and actually second quarter.
Part of the reason for that scheduling for the second quarter and then actually getting it done in the first quarter was if you remember last year we had a bunch of weather and we had some issues with the weather last year.
This year we had almost exact same number of days of the same difficult weather.
But the guys in the field just did a great job and worked right through it.
And so we had almost no weather downtime in the first quarter and that allowed us to get some of the planned work done that was really -- we were thinking it was going to be in the second quarter done in the first quarter.
And so right now we're completely caught up on completions and drilling and everything where we were expecting that we'd have let's say 10 maybe even 15 well lags because of weather.
So a lot of it is weather related but it is pulling those wells forward and when we did it.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> First question is on the Marcellus.
I mean in terms of your other production guidance outside of Fayetteville it's about 56 to 58 Bcf.
Can you let us know how much of that is related to Marcellus and also just your thought plans of how fast you want to ramp up Marcellus? Is it more just waiting on more production history or are you waiting on the rigs? Just some color on how you're thinking about ramping it up? As you're thinking about us going through the rest of the year we're drilling these wells on pads.
There will probably be 2 more pads that get completed between now and the end of the year and then the third one right at the very end of the year.
So you're going to see 2 or 3 wells 2 more times very similar I think to what you're seeing here between now and the end of the year.
So you'll see a ramp-up but the second rig that's coming in is actually coming in to what we call the Range area in the far eastern area.
And the production from those wells won't be until 2012.
So I think what you're going to see is a little bit of hockey stick when you get in 2012.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> So of the 45 wells you're going to drill there how many of those are expected to come online this year? I don't have that exact number in front of me.
If I had to guess 20 we're at 14 now 25 26 something like that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then just a second question on the Midstream side even though your throughput was up your operating income was down.
Can you just give some color in terms of the cost side? Was it more onetime or is it some additional costs that are creeping into that side of the business? Our G&amp;A was down on a per Mcf basis.
Our LOE was up slightly over last quarter but it was right in the middle of our range of guidance.
And on our LOE side we had a little bit more salt water disposal fees and we have a bit more compression fees.
But other than that I think our costs are pretty much as we expected.
And the Midstream actually had a very nice bump up.
Right.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> The Midstream operating income? I mean relative to Q4 is what I was looking at the throughput numbers were up but the operating income was down.
Yes the operating income in the fourth quarter also included some marketing margin that was somewhat of an aberration not necessarily recurring.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> But in general Greg if I'm thinking about the Midstream operating income throughput grows 15% the operating income should grow roughly in line with the same growth? Yes it should Amir.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen [indiscernible] with Tudor Pickering  Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Steve looking at your Marcellus position -- I'm thinking about your acreage position and your LOE results they seem pretty similar to other operators in the area.
Their constraint really has been more gathering and compression build out plans initially and then pipeline capacity build out plans beyond that.
Can you walk us through for each of the 2 development areas where you're going to be running rigs what's your first gathering compression capacity is this year and next year? And then the same question on pipeline capacity.
Well there really -- you can either call it 3 areas or 4 areas.
We've got the area drilling right now in Greenzweig which is right on top of a pipeline that goes north south and ties with Millennium and Tennessee Gas.
And as we mentioned in our press release we have purchased farm comparison both Millennium and Tennessee as well as we're doing some spot capacity.
The farm -- the first that the farm that comes on is later this year November of this year.
And then it builds over the next couple of years well over 200 million a day.
That DTE pipeline we talked about it is a north-south line that will run across through our far eastern acreage and that pipeline will have a capacity above 300 million a day.
We've committed to about 280 million at peak on that but it will be significantly more than we could handle.
And part of the farm that we purchased on Millennium and Tennessee Gas matches was when that pipeline will be in early 2012.
So we could have a couple of bumps in the road if we go -- if these wells continue to be as strong as they are right now.
Towards the end of the year we could have a little bit of issues where we may not be able to buy something off just a spot and we have a little bit of issues.
But I think between now and the end of 2012 going into 2013 we go from basically having 90 million day-to-day to well over 200 million going on 300 million available to us at the end of next year and into 2013.
So that's kind of the game plan.
We've been fortunate both Millennium and Tennessee Gas just went through a new RFP process to get in new customers and we've been able to buy that farm.
So I think we're okay at least over the next couple of years.
Obviously if the wells keep being as strong as they are we have to talk in the next 6 months about what we want to be beyond 2012 but I think we're okay from here.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then Steve just thinking on PVI basis can you give us some thoughts around have initial wells also looked like they're tracking 68 Bcf at these wells cost in the Marcellus? How does that compare to the Fayetteville just on the PVI? The Fayetteville is -- remind everyone that this Present Value Index and we look for 1.3 Present Value Index which is nothing more than giving our investors $1.30 discount or 10% for every dollar we invest.
To get to that number on the Fayetteville Shale it's right at $4 today.
And as we drill the wells faster and the wells get a little cheaper that works down a couple of pennies.
What we thought was going to be the case in the Marcellus even 3 months ago we were talking about Marcellus then being in the $3.80s.
Now we're talking in the low $3 and maybe have team handle on it for economics for 1.3 PVI.
Depending on whether it's at 5 to 6 Bcf well or if it's an 8-plus Bcf well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> But thinking about kind of return on capital employed and kind of overall funding cost as you ramp the Marcellus it isn't the same scale as the Fayetteville but should actually see direction go well in '12 and then into '13? Yes we're going to get to it as fast as we can get to it -- and one thing I didn't mention before when we were talking about the pipeline takeaway we do have that one block of acreage that's in Lycoming County.
We will drill a couple of wells on that.
This year was actually a third rig that was coming in to drill a few wells and we'll start working on a takeaway on that as well.
But what you'll see is due as we look out into 2012 and beyond you'll see us working in basically 3 general areas the Greenzweig area; the eastern part Susquehanna County; and then the Lycoming County and that will build up to 5-plus rigs in the not-too-distant future and go that direction with it.
So that's kind of our general game plan.
We're getting all of the infrastructure in place to do that and we're really excited about the fact that the wells are coming much better than we expected.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Thanks.
I don't say great quarter very often but that was a good turnaround so thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Have your discussions advanced at all with utilities or a utility with respect to a long-term contract on supply? And if so any additional color on what those terms might look like? I'm not sure if I could say they've advanced.
We talked to almost every major utility in the country.
We have contracts or beginnings of contracts on our desks from almost every major utility in the country.
And the big -- I think we know most of the terms and kind of the form of the contracts but the big issue is is gas price going to go up or down in the near future and when they would sign a contract and what that price would be? In general it's kind of like the M&amp;A market.
The only time M&amp;A work is when everyone agrees on the direction of the price.
Right now in general we don't quite agree on general direction in which way the gas price is going.
So I don't know if you would ask me in December I would guess that both our company and the industry would've had some contracts signed by now.
I'm kind of wondering -- it maybe the fall when we start seeing the storage a little more obvious that you start seeing contracts being signed.
But we do have contracts which is a lot different than it was this time last year.
We've done a lot of discussions both in our company and the industry and we're comfortable that the power generators are going to be using more gas -- right now using more gas but just when and how will the long-term contract be signed.
Okay and you say you're not in agreement with the direction of the price of the commodity.
What's your view? Well from a contract negotiation standpoint this thing is going up it's going up fast.
But as I said before we're working on it.
What we're planning on is staying conservative.
We don't know what's going to happen.
Certainly rig count hasn't come off as much as we'd like so we have some concerns about the near term.
But I think we have the same kind of positive outlook that the forward curve does when you start looking out '13 and '14 where it's popped up.
And so that's the discussions we're having with them.
They would like to go back to the forward curve a month and a half ago and we like the forward curve now.
Okay got it.
And as a follow-up Steve you spoke about the process of negotiating and leasing acreage under New Ventures.
Can you comment at all on maybe the total amount of leasehold or is there a goal involved here? And when do you conclude the leasing process itself or when does it begin to slow? Each of our project areas have specific acreage goals and they also have with them what I'll call control goals where you pick up the acreage but there's a certain amount of acreage you want to make sure that you have at least 50% of -- or whatever that state or regions areas obviously you can control what your future is.
And so we got those 2 sets of goals for each one.
I won't go into details about what those are without going into details about the individual projects.
But keep in mind what we're trying to do is replace Fayetteville Shale with 2 or 3 of these.
So they are for the most part large acreage blocks that we're looking at.
And the only reason they wouldn't be a couple of hundred thousand acres is if they were way thick and it was 2 for 1 for instance compared to Fayetteville Shale just because of the hydrocarbon in place whatever that was.
So when we hit whatever those goals are both the control goal and the total acreage goal then we're ready to go and we'll head out and do that.
And the only thing that would sidestep that at all is if there was a large amount of industry participation they drove prices up above where we want to invest for the acreage that was there and we just couldn't get anymore and then we talked about it at that point in time.
But right now we don't have that situation so it's really just the acreage goal and the amount we want to control.
Our next question comes from Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
My question is all regulatory related.
He first question is you said something that there's a proposed well fee now and I was wondering if you have taken a look at it to see how it would affect your economics on your Pennsylvania wells.
And the second question is also regulatory.
So with the new SEC proposals how if any do they affect your hedging strategy and will there be a collateral posting requirement? I'm answering the first question which Pennsylvania rule or Pennsylvania issue were you worrying about? Well I think yesterday Pennsylvania came out with the [indiscernible] 10 000.
Let me just start with the hedging part of it.
We're still trying to figure out exactly what the SEC is going to do.
It looks as if we're not going to have to post but if it comes up that we have to post we think that's going to significantly change our hedging philosophy and probably the whole industry.
It just doesn't make sense for us to basically have to post on a regular basis.
And then it comes in whether it be some kind of hybrid where we personally wouldn't as a company have to post but someone else could post for us and that makes the hedging more expensive and then we'll just have to look at the price of the hedging of that kind.
So we're just watching to everyone else and I don't even have a guess.
I read the same thing everyone else does and it's just going back and forth.
As far as the well fee in Pennsylvania I think their proposal is about $10 000 fee per well.
I don't know about the amount.
Certainly the other part of it is that they want the fee to go in the areas where the industry's working on the roads and doing the things that's there.
We're all for that.
To the extent that the industry is damaging roads or if there's infrastructure that has to be built because of what we're doing we ought to pay our fair share on that.
And so as a company we have no problems with that portion of it at all and the exact $10 000 or whatever that kind of fee is I haven't looked at close enough.
It won't affect our operations.
I don't think anything that we're doing would end up in that direction.
But the key to ours is don't just collect a fee or collect the tax and distribute it someplace else and then not help the area that's really being most affected by whatever that is.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to management for closing comments.
Thank you.
When you think about our quarter as I said before we had a great quarter.
Our guys did a great job in the field working through a lot of different things.
And even just recently -- in the last couple of days we've had some tornadoes come through Arkansas.
We've had 14 of our families houses destroyed or parts of their properties destroyed and we're working right through that and I'm proud of what they're doing in the field.
I'm proud of what our group's have been doing overall.
And then you look at the Fayetteville Shale in particular thinking you're going to drill nine days nine days and then be in the mid-8s rates right now that's a great job those guys have done and that helps us set up the future.
One of the key things that I said we have to figure out is how fast can we drill so we can fare how many rigs we really need.
Marcellus again pleasant surprises there.
New Ventures is right on track.
And then we put in the new slide in both the press release you've seen our presentation about Marcellus.
We're dedicated to keeping transparent in what we do.
So as we get the information in we'll get that out to you and whether it's New Ventures or Marcellus or Fayetteville or whatever that is.
And with that I thank you for being part of our conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your presentation.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern Energy.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mueller you may begin.
Thank you Christine.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Greg Kerley our CFO; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our second quarter results you can find a copy on our website www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the risk factors in the Forward Looking Statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
We're excited to report one of the best quarters ever for our company.
We posted outstanding growth in earnings cash flow and production in the second quarter.
Despite the current gas price environment -- that's in spite of the current in the gas environment our production continues to grow primarily driven by the favorable shale operations.
However we're also beginning to see the impact of our Marcellus Shale activities on our production where operator production from Marcellus shale is over 100 million cubic feet per day from 17 horizontal wells.
Total production growth was 25% during the quarter fueled by our Fayetteville Shale play which grew by 28% with production of 107 Bcf.
We also produced 5.1 Bcf from the Marcellus Shale 6.3 Bcfe from East Texas and 4 Bcf from our Arkoma operations.
Finally we announced the new potential unconventional horizontal oil play and hope to get 2 oils tested and drilled by the end of the year.
Now we'll talk about each of our operating areas.
We placed 149 operated wells on production in Fayetteville shale during the first quarter which resulted in gross operating production reaching 1.8 Bcf per day at July 25.
Our operated horizontal wells at an average completed well cost of $2.8 million per well with an average drilling time of 8.2 days during the second quarter.
We also placed 10 wells on production during the quarter that were drilled in 5 days or less.
In total we have drilled 55 wells to date in 5 days or less.
By the way just last week we had our fastest ever at 3.75 days.
Our average initial producing rates were approximately 3 million cubic foot per day which is down from the first quarter primarily due to the shorter lateral lengths location differences in the mix of wells and more pad drilling which creates additional well interference and uneven loading of compressors.
The last month average monthly production this quarter was in April where we placed 55 wells on production an average rate of 2.7 million cubic foot per day.
These numbers improved as mix changed during the quarter and by June our average initial production rate was 3.4 million cubic foot per day.
In Northeast Pennsylvania we're very encouraged by what we've seen to date.
At June 30 we have completed 17 operated Marcellus Shale horizontal wells in our Greenzweig area in Bradford County.
Net production from the area was 5.1 Bcf in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 2.8 Bcf in the first quarter and 0.8 Bcf in the fourth quarter of 2010.
In May we initiated compression on 7 wells and this reduced the average line pressure on those wells by 600 to 650 pounds.
The other 10 wells however are currently producing without the benefit of compression into line pressures of over 1 000 pounds.
Gross operating production from this area is currently approximately 104 million cubic foot per day.
We continue to place several wells in production from single path of [ph] time and the results continue to be strong.
There is one specific well we'd like to talk about that's the Ball Myer 1H.
It was placed on line in June.
This well had completed lateral of 4 500 feet and was fracture stimulated in 19 stages and is currently producing at a tubing-constrained rate of approximately 7.8 million cubic foot per day at flowing tubing pressure of 1 400 psi after 33 days of production.
Prior to this well our horizontal wells had average lateral lengths of approximately 3 900 feet and have averaged 10 stages of fracs in our completion.
Going forward our future horizontal wells are expected to average 12 to 13 stages per well with estimated completed well cost for those wells of $5 million to $5.5 million per well.
In August we will be moving a second rig into Pennsylvania to begin drilling our Range Trust area in Susquehanna county.
For the remainder of 2011 we expect to drill 3 wells in Greenzweig area 9 wells in the Range Trust area 10 wells in the Price area and 2 wells in Lycoming County.
The majority of these wells we placed on production in 2012.
Switching to new ventures.
In New Brunswick we are on a schedule to drill at least one well in the second half of 2012.
We have started the acquisition of approximately 410 miles of 2D data and hope to have that finished in September.
We're also in second phase of geochem acquisition which will provide more information on a potential hydrocarbon generation.
That work should be completed by next month.
Early in 2012 we plan to shoot a tie[ph] a group of 2-D seismic to help give us a better understanding of where to drill our first well.
Outside of New Brunswick we currently have approximately 835 000 net undeveloped acres in connection with other new venture prospects.
Of these 835 000 acres we have approximately 460 000 net acres in a new unconventional horizontal play targeting the Lower Smackover Brown Dense formation.
It is interesting to note that this happens to be almost the exact same number of acres we had when we announced the Fayetteville Shale play back in August of 2004.
The Brown Dense is a nonconventional oil reservoir found in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana.
It ranges in vertical depths from 8 000 to 11 000 feet.
It's laterally extensive over a large area and ranging in thickness from 300 to 530 feet.
Our investment in undeveloped acreage in the play area to date is approximately $150 million or $326 per acre and our leases currently have an 82% average net revenue interest.
We will begin by targeting the higher gravity oil window under our lease which we believe could be 40% to 55% API range.
This formation is below the Haynesville and Smackover and is an upper Jurassic-aged kerogen-rich carbonate source rock which covers an area from Texas to Florida.
We extensively reviewed the Brown Dense across the entire region and have indications that the right mix of reservoir depth thickness porosity matrix permeability sealing formations thermal maturity and oil characteristics are found in the area of Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana.
Frosty [ph] ranges from 3% to 10% in the area and anticipated pressure gradient is 0.62 psi per foot so it is overpressured.
Estimated matrix for permeability based on various methods of measurement ranges from less than 0.1 millidarcy to more than 1 millidarcy.
Both porosity and matric permeability are comparable to metrics reported in the Eagle Ford play in South Texas.
We have assembled a log data on 1 145 wells covered in 5 states to evaluate the Brown Dense have acquired over 6 000 miles of 2-D seismic and have gathered and analyzed rock data from cores and cuttings from 70 wells that penetrated the Brown Dense zone.
At this point we currently have more data about the Brown Dense than we had on the Fayetteville Shale when it was announced.
We hope to receive a permit to drill our first well in Columbia County Arkansas in August.
And will spud later in the third quarter.
This well is planned to drill to a vertical depth of approximately 8 900 feet and has a planned horizontal lateral length of 3 500 feet.
This well will be extensively logged and a full course of plan over the entire Brown Dense interval before the well is completed.
The completed well cost of this first well is approximately $10 million which will have more than $2 million of science work.
Our second well is planned to spud later this year with a total vertical depth of approximately 10 700 feet and a 6 000-foot horizontal lateral in Claiborne Parish Louisiana.
We plan to drill up to 10 wells in 2012 as we continue to test this concept.
This formation serves several large conventional oil and gas fields and our hope is to use horizontal drilling technology to unlock at least as much potential.
Positive test results could significantly increase our activity in this play over the next several years.
We're also working on other new ventures we'll provide more updates on those in the future.
Finally in East Texas we sold certain oil and natural gas leases and wells and gathering equipment in Shelby San Augustine and Sabine counties for approximately $108 million before the customary purchase price adjustments.
This divestiture included only the producing rights in the Haynesville and Middle Bossier Shale intervals in this acreage with net production of approximately 7 million cubic foot per day as of May 25 2011 improved net reserves of approximately 25.1 Bcf at the end of the year 2010.
We have deposited $85 million of proceeds from this sale to facilitate potential like-kind exchange transactions.
I will now turn it over to Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
As Steve noted our financial and operating results for the quarter were some of the best in our history.
We reported earnings for the second quarter of $167 million or $0.48 a share which was a 37% increase from the prior-year period.
Our discretionary cash flow was a record $448 million in the second quarter up 30% from $346 million for the same period in 2010.
The comparative increases in earnings and cash flow were primarily due to the growth in our production volumes as Steve spoke about earlier.
Our results stand out even more when you consider that our average realized gas price was comparatively flat with the same period last year.
We realized an average gas price of $4.30 in Mcf in the second quarter compared to $4.27 a year ago.
Our hedging activities helped to increase our average gas price by $0.46 per Mcf during the second quarter.
We've continued to increase our hedge position and in the last few months we hedged an additional 56 Bcf for 2011 at an average price of $5.11 per Mcf 40 Bcf in 2012 at an average price of $5.01 and 60 Bcf in 2013 at an average price of $5.16.
As a result we currently have NYMEX price hedges on place on notional volumes on 160 Bcf or over 60% of our remaining 2011 gas production at a weighted average floor price of $5.21 per Mcf.
Operating income for our E&amp;P segment was $223 million during the quarter up 37% compared to $163 million in the same period last year.
Our cost structure continues to be a huge benefit and remains one of the lowest in our industry.
Our all in cash operating costs which include these operating expenses general and administrative expenses taxes other than income taxes and net interest expense were $1.23 per Mcf for the second quarter of 2011.
Our full cost pool amortization rate also declined dropping to $1.28 per Mcf in the quarter down from $1.33 in the prior year.
The decline in the average amortization rate was primarily the result of the sales of certain East Texas oil and natural gas leases and wells in late 2010 and 2011 as the proceeds from the sales were appropriately credited to the full cost pool combined with our lower funding and development cost of our drilling program.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment was $60 million for the first quarter up 36% from the prior-year period.
The increase in operating income was primarily due to the increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus shale plays partially offset by increased operating costs and expenses.
At June 30 our Midstream segment was gathering approximately 2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day through almost 1 700 miles of gathering lines in the Fayetteville Shale play compared to gathering approximately 1.6 billion cubic feet per day a year ago.
As you may recall we have been considering various strategic alternatives for our Fayetteville Shale gathering assets.
We have been very deliberate in our analysis.
However we have not yet made a decision on which alternative if any we should pursue.
At June 30 we had a $544 million borrowed on our $1.5 billion credit facility at an average interest rate of around 2% and had total debt outstanding of a little more than $1.2 billion resulting in a debt-to-book capital ratio of 27% and a debt-to-market capital ratio of only 7% which is one of the lowest in our peer group.
That concludes my comments.
And now we'll turn back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Steve and Greg and Brad just trying to think about analogies for the Brown Dense.
The reservoir sounds somewhat similar to the volatile oil window maybe in the Eagle Ford.
But depths and well design and kind of cost will that be more similar to a Bakken-type well as you think about length of lateral number of stages? Or can you build any sort of analogies of how you're thinking about it? One of the things we don't know at this time is exactly what the stimulation is going to look like.
But taking the best guess as we can that first couple of wells we talked about was all the science.
Those will be up over $10 million as wells go.
We think that once we get through the first wells that have science on them we can drill wells for roughly $7 million in that range.
And that's assuming somewhere between a 4 500 and 6 000 foot lateral.
And the reason there's such a broad range on that is in Arkansas right now 4 500 is about the longest you can drill a lateral.
On the Louisiana side you can go between 6 000 and 8 000 feet on laterals.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And you think about somewhere in the 10 -- 12 to 15 stages kind of in that lateral length? That's what we're looking at.
But when you look at this this is a carbonate that's very very dirty and has a lot of shale and carbonation material in it.
And so it could be that it's not in the slick water frac when it's all done.
There could be some other frac technique and then stages and the other things could be completely different.
So if you think about a typical slick water frac scenario you had 10 to 12 stage frac for 4 500 foot lateral.
But we're just going to have to play it by year.
And when I say science in those first wells we will be experimenting with different kinds of stimulation not just going in and say let's say 10 to 12 stages and go from there.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Maybe to stick on the Smackover since we're there right now.
Can you talk -- it's probably -- the Brown Dense formation is probably not something we're all too familiar with.
But what other types of analogies there are wells out there you saw that may give you some encouragement at least led you to believe there's oil in the tank and maybe this reservoir is frac-able? Yes.
Let me run down some numbers and there's quite a bit of numbers here.
But in our press release and what I just said I talked about the entire play.
And in fact that 6 000 of seismic and that 70 wells in it were at least touched the Brown Dense and we'd actually looked at 1 100 wells.
In South Arkansas and Northern Louisiana only we put together about just over 3 000 miles of 2D.
We've reprocessed about 1 000 miles of that.
The dips in the area are very gentle 2-degree dips and there's very little faulting.
And when I say very little there's some 50-foot faults that cover small areas.
But other than that we should be able to land in zone shouldn't have to worry about faulting and that's what we're looking at.
There's 32 wells in that area that have actually drilled into the Brown Dense.
Not all of them has gone through it but they've drilled into it.
Of those 32 wells we were able to find mud logs on 17 of them.
All 17 of those mud logs had mud log shows we were able to analyze that in those wells.
There were 11 wells that actually tested oil.
The first one of those was tested in 1941.
There were a couple of completions.
The best well on a completion standpoint from vertical was a 1984 well.
It was drilled in Union Parish Louisiana and actually produced about 7 000 barrels of oil.
Most of the other ones were either DSTs or very short of completion tests as I saw it shows and now we're moving up into the more conventional zones in Smackover and above.
And of those we're in the 40 to 50 barrels a day type short-term test range in them.
We had a total of 8 cores that we had some --  that actually were partially or in one case almost went through the entire Brown Dense.
Of those 8 cores most of them all we have was a core reports.
We didn't actually see the rock.
On 2 of them we were able to look at the rock in detail and go foot by foot and inch by inch and look at it.
And on one of those cores we were able to actually take a piece of the rock do some tests on those rock.
And I've got a tip my hand to Bob Christensen.
For those of you who looked at the cover of our annual report or our presentation that is a piece of that rock from the Brown Dense.
And on there if you can go back and look at it with the light streaks on there the porosity and permeability that we have on that rock.
And you can compare -- one of the reasons we put it on front of the cover -- and you can start comparing that to the other plays that are out there.
But I think to see and compare is very favorably with the kinds of shales and kind of rock that several companies are drilling in other plays.
So that was the data we had.
On the piece of rock that we actually could do some work on we did actual testings to figure out frac-ability.
That piece of rock was brittle.
Now as we've gone through all of this we went through 32 all the way down for just one piece of rock.
So I can't tell you the whole play is going to be brittle.
But that's kind of the basis for encouragement for what we're doing.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then moving to the Fayetteville for my follow-up question can you talk in terms of just your periodic performance in some of the more recent wells? And obviously there is going to be some fluctuations in those initial test rates.
But over the last say 2 3 quarters if you look at sort of the relative decline rates from let's say the 30-day to the initial rate and from the 68- to the 30-day it looks a little bit steeper than what you'd experience in the year or 2 before.
Is there anything I should read into this? We're not reading anything into it.
If you look -- and one of the reasons I gave the kind of a monthly little bit of monthly information the 60-day is truly just an average of 60 days.
It is the point at 60 days on that well.
And I gave some numbers that in April were 2.7 million a day average.
Well the 60-day rates are the April rates.
So what you're just seeing on 60 days is the lower IP in April.
When you look at the overall chart I think and you really want to look at it in the future I think that's basically -- the basis of your question it's going to get more lumpy.
And by lumpy since we're drilling pad areas if we're in one spot and they're a little bit lower a little shallow well a little bit shorter laterals and at a little bit lower rates.
You're going to drill several of them mark down that one spot and then you can move the rig on the other spot.
And so some months or some quarters may have a little lower rate and other quarters may have a little bit higher rate depending on what's going on.
And then you're also going to see it on the overall total production curve and that we may drill 5 or 6 or 8 wells off of the pad.
And then we'll put a bunch of those on at one-time and so you're going to start seeing some step jumps where it was more smooth the past.
And I think that both of those will start telling you of the phase we're at in our drilling program.
When you still look at it we've tested about 600 000 acres on our acreage that we've got.
And that's a net acreage number.
It's almost 1 million acres gross.
We've actually produced on our company-operated wells we only put about 2 -- a little over 2 100 wells on our production.
And the industry drilling in in our acreage [indiscernible] 500 600 wells.
So when you put that in perspective you're in the 200 -- over 200 -- spacing of over 200 acres per well at this point in time.
So we've got a lot of wells to go.
And you're going to see it bounce around a little bit but I'm not too worried about it.
I think it's just a factor going into the pad more and more in the pad drilling which the other side of it you're seeing on drilling.
LLC</strong> Yes okay.
So near term I mean what is sort of your -- is there anything to think about in terms of the results we'll see over the next couple of quarters about where you're drilling and whether it's on pads or just some...
There isn't much changing.
So with the little bit of data that I have right now we're up a little bit from the last quarter.
But I could see maybe a quarter go up and a quarter go down a little bit.
I think the real key that we're looking for as we go in the future the 2 things we are watching closely is how fast we can really drill wells off pads.
So we can start trying to figure out how many wells you can drill with the rigs that you have going out in the future.
And I think the other key that we're trying to figure out is and you don't see it so much in the IP data with the exception of where we get a little bit of comparison back up but what's going to be interference? We think from all the experimental work we've done that it should be around 10% interference total on the wells and the space that we're looking at.
It makes a big difference if its 8% or if it's 12%.
So we've got to get that fine tuned and we'll know a lot more about that towards the end of the year.
So I think it'll bounce around a little bit.
If you really do have that 10% that we're expecting what you're going to see going into next year you're going to start seeing a stabilized general trend.
And that stabilize your own trend that last for a long time even though the quarters may bounce around.
Our next question comes from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Steve just following up on Scott's question there.
So you brought to production about 2 100 wells and you've got let say 8 000 more to go I'm not sure how many more to go.
But going forward I mean will the laterals generally be shorter? Or do you think you still have several thousand laterals that are going to be greater than 4 000 feet and a bunch greater than 5 000 feet? And in terms of locations do you expect that the locations that are left would suggest lower IP rates and lower EURs potentially? And in terms of infill drilling will that infill drilling affect the results going forward in terms of -- based on the interference? Let me start kind with kind of the end of that question and I'll kind of work back from there.
One of the basic things that I think you're trying to ask is have we been concentrating our drilling historically in the very best areas and then we've got worse areas going forward in the future.
And if you look at our distribution across the field we only have a handful section when I say handful I think it's 4 sections that are actually drilled with 9 or more wells on them.
And we've said that across the field we'll end up with 10 wells on the sections.
We have I think it's less than 20% of the sections with even 6 or more wells or 5 or more wells on them.
So you've got 80% that you're going to have to drill several wells on the section still.
So what happens there is you're not -- you shouldn't say degradation because of where you're drilling.
Now as we talked about in the past the shallow part of the field just because it's shallower has less gas and plays we do drill shorter laterals there and there's some mechanical reasons for that.
So up in the north end of our acreage those laterals will average less than 4 000 feet.
South end of the acreage they're probably averaged well above 4 000 feet.
And when you kind of look at it in general I think the overall average we've been saying this for a long time will be something above 4 000.
Whether it makes the 4 500 I don't know but somewhere between 4 000 and 4 500 foot laterals.
And so the little bit of drop on laterals this time just tells you we're drilling more wells in the northern end of our property.
That's how it was really doing in that standpoint.
But I think you get to between 4 000 and 4 500 feet.
Longest lateral we've drilled to date I believe we just set a record this quarter it was around 8 800 foot lateral that we drilled this quarter.
And that had some geologic reasons.
There's a fault block there's a skinny [ph] fault block and the only way get the reserve is to drill the 8 800 foot.
The reason that we're not drilling longer than 4 500 when you look at the faulting and look at all the other characteristics that go with it it just averages out that it's going to be 4 500.
Some will be shorter and some will be 6 000 and 7 0000 feet.
Okay.
So I guess addressing that you get the infill drilling you're still a long way to go before you...
Yes.
Okay so that's the answer? And going back to your number on a net basis we have something like 8 000 wells to drill.
And to remind everyone our average working [indiscernible] is just about 75%.
So when you factor that up it's so over 10 000 gross well to drill.
Got you.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up for Greg just on the midstream monetization.
So you've taken a deliberate approach.
Can you give us some more details on what you're thinking about these days? Well we're going to continue to study it.
And as we continue working towards the end of the year as we develop our 2012 capital program I think the capital requirements and what we look at what we plan to do next year will also factor into that versus our cash flow whether what alternatives if any that we need to supplement cash flow.
And let me jump and add something to that.
We have had a lot of discussions both internally as management and our Board of Directors about what to do with Midstream and how to get the best value out of it.
And I can tell you one of our concerns is -- one of our key premises is to keep things as simple as possible.
And when you start doing things with the Midstream rather than just flat selling it it starts getting complex in what you're doing.
And so we're still debating what that complexity means long term.
We know what we can make short term but what's the real value as you go long term? And we'll continue to think about that and work with it.
We haven't come to any decisions on any method or any kind of structure.
We haven't eliminated any.
All we have is to just continue to have discussions and keep working through it.
And as Greg said as we built budgets and as we look to various things and figure how to finance things that will come more into the equation as we work it.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
As you look to the balance of this year but more importantly in future years how should we think about capital and rig allocation between the Fayetteville and Marcellus and now potentially here the Smackover? Do you see ramping the Marcellus and then the Smackover as additive to your overall rig count going forward? Or should we expect a flatter or lower rig count in the Fayetteville? I think what you want to think about is additive.
What our strategy going forward in the Fayetteville Shale is basically and we're doing it this year basically at the Fayetteville Shale live within its own cash.
And actually I think over the next couple of years it will give some cash flow back to the company to help support some of the New Ventures.
But to the extent that it can get [ph] those cash flow it will ramp up along the way.
And then any financing or any money we raise or anything in that direction will go to accelerating both New Ventures and the Marcellus.
Today there's one rig.
We'll have the second rig in about a month.
Towards the end of the year early next year we should have a third rig out there.
And we haven't put our 2012 budget together yet but I wouldn't be surprised if we exit next year with roughly 5 rigs running the Marcellus.
And then in New Ventures as we start doing these New Venture plays and Brown Dense is the first one of those and so we need to drill 10 wells on that one.
We'll get New Brunswick tests the next year and there will be several wells.
Ultimately you're trying to do in New Brunswick to figure out if that play works.
And then we'll start talking about this other acreage at some point in time.
What you're going to see starting next year is a ramp up where we're probably drilling between 10 and 20 wells a year on New Ventures.
And so we should be investing roughly the same amount of money on the leasing side.
But whatever that -- depend on which play it is and how much it cost to drill wells in those plays you'll see that will go up to that direction as well.
So I would expect in 2012 with the last 2 or 3 years we've roughly been $1.8 billion to a little over $2 billion range.
You will see a jump up in 2012.
And we'll talk more about that towards the end of the year.
Got it.
And I guess for following up on that what if any cost inflationary pressure are you seeing in the Fayetteville? And how does gas macro demand in gas prices play into your level of activity there if at all? Well I think as far as the cost pressure in the Fayetteville itself we have not seen the kinds of things that the rest of the industry's talk about in some of the other plays.
And there's 2 reasons for that.
We own a lot of the equipment on the rig side.
And when I say a lot of equipment we not only own the rigs we own some other things to go with the rigs that explains that [ph].
So we've had that locked in for several years and will continue to be locked in.
And that sand plant is continuing to do great for us.
And the sand plant on the Fayetteville well makes us about 140 000 Marcellus is about 140 000 well as we look at that sand plant.
And that will continue doing that due to the likelihood.
And the 2 biggest costs we have are the pumping services and because that's more now just a commodity and it's relatively on a pumping scale an easy pump for most contractors.
The equivalent we have in Fayetteville doesn't work as well.
And Eagle Ford it certainly doesn't work in Haynesville.
So it's kind of tailored to this area.
We haven't seen a lot of upward pressure.
I think it's only 4% of 5% total from last year.
And then on the other big costs is the steel and their casing and tubing.
We haven't seen an increase there with any significance.
We'll watch that.
And certainly as rig count goes up there's going to be upper pressure on that.
But to remind everyone there we've got a long-term contract U.S.
Steel to supply that.
And it's an index price.
So even there it might go up.
I think we're going to get the one with better prices for steel when it does go up.
So overall we continue to think that in Fayetteville -- we guided this year to be a little bit less total dollars in last year to drill equivalent wells.
We think we can do that for the next 2 or 3 years easily even with a little bit upward cost inflation just on the bays that we're going to see drilling.
Our next question comes from Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of comments sort of on -- questions on sort of your drilling results in the Fayetteville.
Greg you made the comment that your DD&amp;A was lower because of the lower F&amp;D costs.
Presumably that's because the F&amp;D of the wells you're drilling are lower than your aggregate cost pool.
Is that right? That's correct.
Can you talk about what the incremental F&amp;D that you added in this quarter was versus the incremental F&amp;D that you added in the first -- in the last couple of quarters fourth quarter first quarter? It really is higher because your EUR seem to be lower this quarter.
Let me jump in on that.
There's a lot of variables in that and so I wouldn't make that jump at all because you don't know how many wells we booked or didn't book or how many wells were positively drilled versus others.
And I don't know those either frankly so I couldn't give you those numbers but I knew them.
So I would just say in general remind everyone at the end of the year we were booking 2.4 Bcf wells or PUDs.
And we can certainly as we drill wells I think that certainly we can book 2.4 Bcf or better in the future.
And on the PDP wells at the end of the year the ones where we had a history on them that we drilled and had PDP those were 2.9 Bcf wells.
And so I think the end conclusion of that is as far as DD&amp;A rate goes we in Fayetteville Shale have been around $1 dollar for the last couple of years.
We're still around $1 as long as overall company DDA rates is above $1 you'll see it kind of work its way down over time.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then the follow up related to the well results.
Can you just comment on what the trajectory for volumes you expect out of the Fayetteville because it seems that's sort of a flat line from maybe the last couple of months in that chart that you have.
I guess it's to the end of the quarter presumably.
But it looks like it's sort of flat for a couple of quarters.
Does that suggest that going forward should we expect that to continue in all the drills that will come out of the Marcellus?  Or is there some glitch in the prediction from take-away capacity or whatever that's causing that flatlining of production? Yes production and how fast it goes up or how fast it goes down has several components to it.
And one of the components certainly is how good the IPs in the wells are.
And one component is how fast you're drilling and the other component is how many rigs you're running.
And I would say all of those are kind of capital budget related things.
We kind of guided for the year what we think we're going to do.
I believe that having a 28% increase year-over-year in the Fayetteville is probably a pretty good increase in our production to date.
And we'll just talk about it more as we start talking about building 2012 out.
The question is is the Fayetteville done? Is it going to flatten out and tip over? I just can't imagine that's going to happen with the number of wells that we have out there.
So the other thing to kind of give everyone just a general and remind everyone of we committed a couple of years ago to 2 large pipe coming out in the area.
That still does ramp up.
We'll get the last bit of that production towards the end of this year going to early 2012.
And by the end of this year we'll have about between 2.2 to 2.4 Bcf a day of capacity that we can take out of Fayetteville Shale.
And it's not our intent we may not hit those numbers exactly but it's not our intent to pay for [ph] on stuff that are not producing.
So we'll keep working it up.
Our next question comes from Scott Wilmoth with Simmons &amp; Company.
You mentioned exiting next year potentially in the Marcellus with 5 rigs.
Is that predicated on external capital from the Midstream? Or if you get additional capital could that number go higher? Actually it's probably predicated on our best guess a number wells that we're going to ultimately drill and what's reasonable.
Again we've had to buy firm capacity in the Marcellus.
And today we've got on a firm roughly 100 million a day a little over 100 million a day.
That will ramp up to the end of 2013 is the last jump of what we purchased so far.
And we'll be up over 400 million closer to 450 million a day of capacity we have.
And then all this capacity you buy you have to hold for a certain period of time.
Whether it's Fayetteville Shale or Marcellus both of them are 10- to 15-year term firm that you're buying.
And so when we look at the Marcellus we know we need to drill at least 1 000 wells.
If you ramp up to 5 to 6 rigs and with what we're assuming we can drill today that let's you build up to those kinds of numbers and keep that capacity for 8 or 10 years.
So that's kind of the logic behind it.
So I don't think you'll see us say go to 10 or 12 or 13 rigs because then that would -- we don't have enough capacity for that whole 10-year period.
Yes.
I guess I should rephrase my question is that ramp dependent on the Midstream financing? Or is that going to be part of your...
No.
It's going to be dependent on how fast we can put equipment out and how fast pipelines are getting built so we can find [ph] in lines we don't want a bunch of wells waiting on pipelines.
Okay great.
And then you mentioned PDP bookings at 2.9 Bs.
What's the average lateral length of those PDPs? And how do you expect those to trend over time given your EUR chart that you guys put in your...
I think last year's average lateral length was about -- just under 3 500-foot lateral length.
That was the average for last year.
And how do you expect that PDPs to trend over time? Well I mean we talked about this in the past.
Lateral length is certainly going to average higher in the future and you should get --  as you're contacting more rock you should be able to get more out of the rock.
But the other part of it is we're going to drill more and more wells that have some interference ultimately with them.
And so if we drill up into that 4 500 foot range that I was talking about -- or 4 300 foot that I was talking about before and you put a 10% interference factor on there you'll get a little more upside on what you can book as reserve but there's not a whole lot to that.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver with Capital One.
Inc.</strong> A question on production guidance.
You had a good production beat in the second quarter and then had several stronger wells later in the quarter as you were just talking about earlier in the call.
Does this imply that your unchanged 3Q guidance is conservative? Or do you plan on putting fewer wells online? Or how should we think about that 3Q versus 2Q? We will have fewer wells that are coming online between now and the end of the year in the Marcellus as Steve mentioned before.
I mean I think at least what we're talking about is in the range of the vast majority of what will be drilled between now and end of the year will not be coming on until probably the end of the first quarter of 2012 or April 2012 when some of the that additional gathering that gets built.
We also had kind of a high well count in the Fayetteville Shale that came on this quarter too higher than normal.
So we had both of those things kind of working in our factor that we don't see the same kind of timing and it's that it's at the balance of year you can't see it right now.
Things could change in that.
And if our drilling days continue to go down that will also change that.
But we feel pretty -- we feel we're comfortable that our numbers right now are very reasonable in our range.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And a follow-up on the New Ventures plays do you think you can be spudding a well in another New Venture play later this year? Or is it just going to be the Brown Dense? Or you do not want to comment on that? The wells -- we'll get I'm hoping to get 2 wells drilled in Texas [ph] and Brown Dense.
I doubt whether we will have another well on another play.
But we are getting close on a couple.
So I would expect that sometime in 2012 we'll make some announcements about some other ones.
Our next question comes from Peter Kissel with Howard Weill.
Quick question.
In the past you'd mentioned that a 1.3 PVI was achievable in the Fayetteville at about $4 gas.
And in the Marcellus I believe it was about $3.25 on the gas side.
I was just curious to see if with some of the cost adjustments and whatnot if there's any change that would another quarter under your belt? There really isn't much change at all in those general numbers.
The Fayetteville is still right around $4.
And we're drilling the wells for about the same and for at same EURs so that's how we're working that way.
And the Marcellus we're still trying to figure out what the EUR is going to be of our wells.
They're certainly performing better than we had originally expected.
And so depending on what the ultimate EUR is if anything there's downward pressure on that numbers that are out there.
And I think a year ago when we only had one well in production it looked like a 4 Bcf of well and about $5 million to $5.5 million to drill it we were saying Marcellus is in the low $4.
If it happens to be a 5 Bcf well that drops down into the $3.60 $3.70 range to get 1.3 PVI.
If it's above 8 it drops down in the low 3s.
So we're just still trying to figure out what the EUR there is.
Well like I said if anything it down on whether [ph] it's 1.3s and up.
Got you Okay.
And then just one follow-up question on the Midstream.
Do you have an idea at this point as to what the Midstream EBITDA could look like in 2012? I don't know.
It's going to go up with the production pretty much follow production.
And this year to remind everyone we said it would be in $270 million range.
So whether it's $290 million $300 million something I don't know.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> Anyway hold my hand a little bit on one question.
You do have a frac crew dedicated to this first well it's not going to be a well where you drill it months go by and we have to wait for a frac crew to get in there.
Actually I'll kind of answer the frac crew and the rig question.
We're going to use one of our rigs.
And in that way we didn't have to worry about tipping a hand on it.
And then we move down here since we get a permit.
And from a frac-ing standpoint we've been working with [ph] for the last 8 or 9 months helping us to some of the science.
And they've promised us a frac crew will be ready whenever we need them so.
Inc.</strong> And on the frac it sounds like you might not use slickwater what are the other alternatives? Well if you go back and think about Fayetteville Shale we started to do cross link.
And we worked through various foams and other things.
I don't think you going to have to worry about foams overpressured here.
But I could see us trying some different kinds of cross-links.
I could see some acid-driven because there's a lot of carbonate here -- some acid-driven fracs as well as slickwater.
And I'm not saying that the first well is not going to have slickwater fracs on it.
But in the sequence of wells we will test other kinds of fracs and frac fluids.
Inc.</strong> Have there been any other horizontals by industry attempted yet? I mean are yours really the first? There's only 2 recent wells.
There is a well drilled about 2 years ago by EOG It's called EOG Hensley well it was drilled in I think it's Lafayette County Arkansas.
It was almost on the Arkansas Louisiana line close to Texas border.
And was in the deeper part of the play than what we're really targeting.
And we thought it would be in the gas win and it tested a million [ph] a day.
That was a vertical well.
Then recently earlier this year I said earlier this year late last year there was a well drilled in Columbia County it was drilled by Gramer [ph] Anderson.
And it did have a short horizontal.
And I don't know the exact link that horizontal.
I know they wanted to drill between 3 000 and 4 000 feet but had some mechanical problems with it.
They did get a frac off in the zone [ph] in that short horizontal.
They also had some problem on frac-ing.
So didn't go on all stages they wanted.
The well tested about 40 barrels a day.
And was reported to the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission with that 40-barrel day rate.
It didn't report any gas.
But there's reports that there were some small flares on location.
Those are the only recent wells and that's the only horizontal.
It's just a very short horizontal that was done.
There are a couple of wells permitted the Gramer [ph] Anderson group has permitted a well south of the one they drilled.
And there's a -- part of the company called J-W Operating that has permitted another well in the area.
So I think there's going to be some other companies that you get some drilling results on.
Our next question comes from Michael Bodino with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
Number one on the Brown Dense big big zone and you re-pooled some logs in there and we note that.
Now outside of some of the obvious issues with some of the shales embedded in this.
There are some zones that have a pretty nice porosity there's some zones that look like there may be more fractured.
You've got a big big section like this what's the process on how you decide where to lay the lateral? I think our first well we're going to lay it as low as we can.
And for those who looked at the logs there's kind of a hot streak down there in the lower part of it.
And consistently there's some pretty good porosity in the lowest part.
But as you said there's porosity streaks throughout it.
So we'll start low and with the thought that the fracs -- if anything will go up if they're not going to go down as much and so it might catch up into some of the other part of it.
And then part of those first 10 wells we'll have to decide how much not only what kind of frac we're doing but how much of the section is actually is actually getting tested.
And this is a large area.
So while we'll start in lower part and I'm sure it's like a lot of these places where a certain middle or upwards is going to look better and you're going to have to go into those zones at some point in time.
To start with we'll land low and then go from there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
The second question I have was up on the Marcellus.
Getting back to that whole concept of maybe moving toward 5 rigs next year with the -- the Cabot Oil [ph] &amp; Gas payouts are reasonably quick on these wells economics are attractive on a well-by-well basis.
There's kind of a natural governor here with infrastructure.
But if you move into a more accelerated pace in the Marcellus is it logical to think that as you move forward here this thing will -- you're going to kind of govern it towards it I hate to say self-funding but trying to get this thing toward more self funding? Or is this going to be a major capital need from the company to fund this for the foreseeable future? How fast do you want to go ultimately with this play? Yes.
To run a rig with Fayetteville or Marcellus is roughly $100 million to do a rig.
We will invest this year in infrastructure and drilling of about $250 million a little over $250 million in Marcellus.
If we ramp up that 3 or 4 rigs you're adding $300 million to $400 million to that.
We certainly can handle all of that.
It's not like the Fayetteville was where we had almost no cash flow as a company and they were trying to ramp this thing up and had to go from there.
We can add -- easily handle $300 million to $400 million more with our capacity we have as a company right now.
So I don't think you're going to see this as an issue where we have to worry about that part of it.
Our next question is from Brian Kuzma with George Weiss Associates.
When I look at your new Marcellus zero-time plots everything looks like it's basically just pushed out flat from 3 months ago in playing essentially those wells are constrained I guess? And I'm just curious what your flowing pressures look like today and when you think you'll have line pressure on those wells in terms of days of production.
I don't know what our average is.
But I would guess it's somewhere around 1 000 pounds.
We have that group of wells and compressors at 600 pounds.
We've got a lot of other wells are well above 1 000.
So I think probably on the average it's about 1 000 B.
We do have some compressions that's going to go in later this year that will get some of these other wells on compression.
And as we said we'll get a couple more wells on this year.
But really because of some pipeline that -- pipes [indiscernible] and some PUDs of the DT line most of the wells we'll drill in the second half of the year we'll get on early next year on the process.
And so you'll start seeing a little bit of help there just you'll start to get an actual decline in that pipe and that pressure start to go down from there.
But as you said those PUDs are a little bit different than most PUDs.
It's taking longer to get up to the highest peak.
And it's kind of what I was talking about on the Fayetteville we've had some issues with when we put a pad on it we didn't have enough compression and it take longer to get to the highest peak.
You'll see that consistently here for a while as we get it early backlog out of it.
And then when you look at that PUD we have you'll see there's a jump up in some of the end in some of those wells.
Well that's more for those compressions on those wells you're seeing it jump up.
All right.
And so like if you -- do you guys have models that would indicate like what type of IP rate it would be capable of if it was unconstrained? Yes we do.
And a model is a model.
There's all kind of variables to go into that.
But I think for those who followed Cabot I don't know if any of these would be $30 million a day wells.
But they would certainly much with Cabot's high teens low 20s on those if you just do 100 pounds 150 pounds pressure trend points.
Mr.
Mueller we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you Christine.
I guess the best way to sum this up is go back to the cover of our annual report where we talked about core values.
What this year and what we've been trying to do as a company is to bring value plus for all of our investors.
And when you look at the Fayetteville and Marcellus are certainly the right things.
It doesn't really matter what the gas price is those are making some good money all throughout.
You look at New Brunswick and the Brown Dense and then you look at the others the 375 000 acres and we've got exciting potential.
And then you look at our numbers and I don't know if we have all the right people but certainly we keep delivering on the numbers.
So we've got the people in place.
And so we're just going to keep working the formula as we work through it.
And will there be some bumps on the road and there will be some good days but we'll go through it.
But we're convinced if we keep working the formula we can deliver and continue doing good for our shareholders.
And with that I'd like to thank you for joining us and have a great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to Southwestern Energy Third Quarter Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller President and CEO.
Thank you Mr.
Mueller you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Greg Kerley our CFO; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our third quarter results you can find a copy on our website www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe these expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
To begin we posted outstanding results for third quarter.
Our earnings and cash flow were up primarily driven by our production growth which continues to exceed our expectations.
As a result we have increased our production guidance for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2011.
Total production growth was 23% during the quarter fueled by our Fayetteville Shale which grew 21% with production of 112 Bcf.
We also produced 7.4 Bcf from Marcellus Shale and 9.6 Bcf from our Ark-La-Tex division.
Now I'll talk about each of our operating areas.
We placed 132 operated wells on production in the Fayetteville Shale during the third quarter which resulted in gross operating production reaching approximately 1.9 Bcf per day earlier this week.
Overall our operated horizontal wells on average completed well cost of $2.8 million per well with an average lateral length of 4 847 feet and an average drilling time of 7.8 days during the third quarter.
We also placed 25 wells in production during the quarter that we drilled in 5 days or less.
In total we have drilled 80 wells to date in 5 days or less.
Our average initial producing rates were approximately 3.4 million cubic feet per day which is up 14% from the second quarter.
In the Northeast Pennsylvania we were very encouraged by what we have seen.
No new wells are placed on production in third quarter.
However we're excited that the same 17 Marcellus Shale horizontal wells in our Greenzweig area and Bradford County are currently producing approximately 110 million cubic feet of gross operated production per day compared to 104 million cubic feet per day when we spoke to you at the last teleconference.
Net production from the area was 7.4 Bcf in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 5.4 -- 5.1 Bcf in the second quarter.
As for activities for the rest of the year we are currently in the process of completing a 5-well pad in Bradford County and expect those wells to come online in November.
We have also moved in a second rig and started drilling in our Price area in Susquehanna County and we expect to have first production from this area in January.
We will be drilling in Greenzweig Price and Range Trust areas throughout the rest of the year but we will not put any new wells to sale until January due to state permitting delays and the constraints of firm transportation and gathering capacity.
We are planning to put -- be much more active in the Northeast Pennsylvania in 2012 and we recently signed a contract for 2 additional rigs to be delivered in midyear 2012.
These rigs will be new builds and designed specifically for our Marcellus Shale operations.
Switching to New Ventures.
In New Brunswick we completed the second phase of surface geochemical sampling and the acquisition phase of approximately 250 miles of 2D data.
Interpretation of both sets of data is currently underway.
The next step in 2012 is to shoot more 2D seismic to help better -- give us a better understanding of where to drill our first well.
Outside of New Brunswick we currently have approximately 948 000 net undeveloped acres in connection with other new venture prospects.
Of these 948 000 net acres we have approximately 487 000 net acres located in the Lower Smackover Brown Dense formation an unconventional oil reservoir find in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana.
We spud our first well in September the Roberson #1-15H located in Columbia County Arkansas and is currently drilling the lateral portion of the well.
This well has a vertical depth of approximately 9 200 feet and a planned horizontal lateral length of 4 000 feet and is planned to be completed next month.
We will spud our second well located in Claiborne Parish Louisiana as soon as the rig moves off the Roberson well.
This well has a planned total vertical depth of approximately 10 700 feet and a planned 7 900-foot horizontal lateral.
Our plan there is to drill up to 8 additional wells as we continue to test the concept in 2012.
If our drilling program yields positive results activity in the play could increase significantly over the next several years.
In addition to the projects mentioned we have 461 000 net acres on other ideas that we'll provide updates on in the future.
This acreage total is 86 000 acres up from the second quarter or 23%.
I will now turn it over to Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer who'll discuss our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
We reported earnings for the third quarter of $175 million or $0.50 a share up 9% from the prior year.
Our discretionary cash flow was $473 million which set a new record and was up 12% from the same period in 2010.
As Steve noted our earnings and cash flow were up primarily due to our strong production growth which combined with our low-cost structure more than offset the impact of lower gas prices.
Our production growth continues to exceed our expectations and as a result we've increased our production guidance for the full year to 496 to 500 Bcf equivalent representing an increase of approximately 23% over the prior year.
We realized an average gas price of $4.30 per Mcf in the third quarter down from $4.67 a year ago.
Our hedging activities helped increase our average gas price by $0.59 per Mcf during the third quarter.
And for the remainder of 2011 we currently have NYMEX price hedges in place on notional volumes of 80 Bcf which is over 60% of our expected fourth quarter gas production at a weighted average floor price of $5.21 per Mcf.
Operating income for E&amp;P segment was $229 million during the quarter compared to $217 million in the same period last year.
Our cost structure continues to be a key advantage for us.
And our all-in cash operating cost which includes lease operating expenses G&amp;A taxes of an income tax and net interest expense were $1.26% per Mcf in the third quarter down from $1.31 a year ago.
Our full cost pool amortization rate also declined to $1.28 per Mcf in the third quarter down from $1.31 of the prior year.
Operating income for our Midstream Services segment was $67 million in the third quarter up 25% from the prior year.
The increase in operating income was primarily due to the increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus Shale properties partially offset by increased operating costs and expenses.
Our favorable gathering system achieved a significant milestone during the third quarter as the system throughput exceeded 2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day up from 1.7 billion cubic feet a year ago.
As a reminder in the Marcellus we currently have firm transportation agreements in place on approximately 125 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Our firm transportation increases are roughly 155 million cubic feet per day in the first quarter of 2012 then increases of 215 million in the second quarter and a 300 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
At September 30 we had 600 million borrowed on our $1.5 billion credit facility at an average interest rate of around 2.2% and had total debt outstanding of $1.3 billion resulting in a debt-to-book capital ratio of 26% which is down from 27% at December 31 2010.
More importantly our cash flow in the third quarter exceeded our capital investments for the first time since announcing the Fayetteville Shale project 7 years ago.
We continue to borrow some funds at times to drill efficiently and test new ideas but this is yet another milestone in 2011 along with gathering over 2 billion cubic feet per day and almost 100% payout drilling in the Fayetteville.
In summary we are very pleased with our third quarter results and the progress we've made year-to-date.
Our strong operating and financial results continue to reflect the high quality of our assets and cost structure and we are well-positioned to provide profitable growth in production and reserves over the next several years.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to focus on the Marcellus Shale with some of the very strong well results that you had in your -- in the chart.
Can you just kind of talk to where you think these wells would be producing on an unconstrained basis were it not for any of the pipeline issues.
And how you think about how those wells and how the well results will start to move around as you start to drill more in Susquehanna County? There's really a couple of things to think about as far as the wells.
If you remember last quarter we talked that all the wells were flowing against about 1 100 pounds pressure.
We had not turned compression on.
Today we do have compression turned on for most of those wells and we're flowing basically against something in the mid 400-pound range.
Now that compares to say Fayetteville Shale we're flowing  against 100 pounds.
So it's still more than is ultimately typical but that does constrain to some degree.
The other part if you look at those curves that we have you see that our production has been brought up fairly slowly.
We have not and any of the wells brought them on quickly.
We kind of slowly ramped them up and we've kind of capped them.
I think the best we've ever done somewhere around 10 million a day.
Now what could be their ultimate? You could do some back-of-the-envelope calculations.
And on IP if you brought it on fairly quickly you went to compression immediately you might have between 25% and 30% to that quarter to 6 million a day well or 10 million a day well type number.
So that's the range.
Now as we go forward I think you'll see us do a couple of things.
The lateral lengths will get a little bit longer.
It looks like -- and we're still working on this but it looks like more stages of fracs are better than fewer stages.
And today we're I think averaging about 10 to 11 stages of fracs.
We'll see that go up a little but.
So at least in this Greenzweig area where we have information I would expect that the future wells would be the same kind or if not a little bit better as we go through.
Research Division</strong> And then a follow-up question would be just on the midstream side of the equation.
Can you just give us your latest thoughts on the strategic importance and various options you may or may not be considering? And I think you're talking about Fayetteville Shale there? Research Division</strong> Yes switching to the Fayetteville midstream.
I mentioned some of it for Marcellus also.
But really no change in what we're thinking before where you still are open to do something but it's probably not the right time right now.
And when I say it's not the right time we're working on 2012 budget to figure out how much capital we may need in 2012 that's not done yet.
And as we look at the market there's nothing that says you have to do it today versus maybe waiting a new quarter or something.
So we keep watching it.
There's value in our midstream.
There's value in keeping our midstream where it's at and there's possibly value down the road to doing something with it also.
Now I do want to mention something in the Marcellus and it's kind of related to how we look at our midstream.
Our midstream is a stand-alone group.
We signed contracts with our midstream in all the areas where they gather.
And we actually had them bid just like they were another company whenever we're working with them.
In the Marcellus the one deal we have now is a company called DTE.
They'll be putting in part of our gathering system because the bid frankly from our midstream wasn't as good.
So we've got some of the Greenzweig area that's been gathered by our midstream.
We'll have some of the other parts of it gathered by other companies and so that will be kind of a mix in Pennsylvania.
Research Division</strong> So your decision as to whether you would move ahead with it selling interest or moving to a different corporate structure with the midstream would be based on your -- having a specific plan of action on investing the cash? Or is there anything strategic that needs to kind of change in the states also? The Fayetteville capital is dropping this year versus last year.
And I think you'll see a drop in 2012.
And the reason for that is we do have the backbone in.
And we've always said that that was the biggest part of what we needed to do.
There are some things in the Fayetteville especially with some third-party gas that we'd like to get taken care off that might give some more upside to the midstream.
But by far the dominant thing is if you're going to bring in cash from any direction whether it's midstream or selling an asset or going to the market and raising it we want to have a good reason to put that cash to work that we can ensure all of our investors that it makes more sense putting cash work there than it is putting it in someplace else.
So that's going to be the key on any of it.
It doesn't matter if it's disposition or midstream.
Our next question is from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about multiyear plans in the Marcellus and kind of where your constraints are today on the pipeline systems and kind of where things go over the next several years can you walk us through an overall marketing plan both transportation on the pipelines to market as well as the midstream as you march up activity levels beyond '12 and just kind of how you're thinking about where those limits and governors come in? There's kind of 2 pieces of that.
Greg gave some guidance on what we've got firm for 2012.
When you look at 2013 as you exit '12 we've got about $300 million a day of firm capacity.
Through most of 2013 we have 300 million a day capacity.
And then right in the fourth quarter of 2013 that jumps up to somewhere around just a little bit short of 490 million a day and that's all firm that we've got in hand today.
We are working on other firm and there's some little gaps in there as we start looking at curves and we had to fill in some things between now and 2013.
And we think there is some small -- when I say small maybe 25 million to 50 million a day pieces that we can fill between now and 2013.
As you look beyond 2013 most of the projects that are on type that's currently in the Marcellus have been prescribed by the various companies that are out there and so there's not a lot of firm to get beyond little pieces.
And so what you have to do is have new pipe into the area.
And I don't -- except for knowing that we have that new pipe in the area talking to several different groups that have proposed where that pipe might go and how it might work that's where we're at in that kind of process.
But at 2013 we have just under 500 million a day.
The shortest contract we have for firm is 10 years most of these are 15 there's 120 in there.
So we've got at least that in 2013 and forward.
From a rig count standpoint that's really the way we design our rigs also.
We've got 2 rigs running right now.
We said we're going to add 2 next year.
Somewhere in 24 25 rigs get you in that range that we're talking about with what we have firm today.
So you won't see us ramp up much more than that without having some other firm at hand.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as you think about the evolution of the Marcellus in your overall portfolio and kind of in the gas market how does this change your thoughts around how you market or where Fayetteville gas goes? I mean do you think it has an impact just based in live not just Southwestern production? But what is this -- I mean the reservoir is remarkable so how do you think about that impact? I think we're like everyone else.
We're trying to figure out how fast it's going to grow and how big that impact truly is for the Northeastern and for the rest of the country.
You're starting to see some of these contracts they actually have back haul related back hauling and back towards Chicago or back hauling down to the Gulf Coast.
And until we get more built into the system the system will limit how much you've got and that will kind of put a moderator at least for the next few years on having any issues.
But as we start building out beyond 2013 as an industry we will have to go to some other place in the Northeast.
Now how does that factor into for instance Fayetteville Shale? We always set the Fayetteville Shale up knowing that we'd be there for a long time and that over time we had no idea where the best place to sell gas was.
So if you remember the way we designed it we have the ability to send about 2 Bcf a day either to the East Coast or to the Southeast and then we've got the ability to send -- probably pushing about 1 Bcf a day to the mid-continent whether that's to the Gulf Coast area or up to Chicago.
And our idea all along was that over the years at certain points in time you put gas one way or the other in the system.
And so that's our strategy really for any areas trying to get as much as you can to as many markets as you can so that as it evolves over time you can take advantage of that.
The Northeast is much harder because frankly you're in the Northeast.
You're not going to get that gas to the West Coast and it does cost quite a bit to get to the Gulf coast so it's something for the entire industry to look at.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve could you give us your view on sort of what you think of gas price at this point in time? And structurally what could that mean to Fayetteville? If you mean we've certainly been stuck on this $4 range for some time how do you think about that when you start to develop your plans on the Fayetteville going forward? I think internally $4.5 is the new $7 is the way we think about it.
There is a lot of gas out there.
Certainly you see indications on rig count.
When it drops below $4 and stays there for a few months that the rig count is affected.
But anything above $4 rig count seems to be holding in pretty much where it's at today.
So we're just assuming for the next 3 years at least that we're range-bound in that $4 to $5 range.
And I think that's reflected in our hedges.
As Greg kind of said we've got 60% of our production hedged at $5 this year just to guarantee that our realized price will be above $4.
And then as we look out in 2012 2013 we've got 266 Bcf hedged in 2012.
We're like $5.16 floors.
We've got 185 Bcf in 2013 with $5.06 floors.
That pretty much will guarantee unless gas gets in the low $3s that we'll be in the $4 price environment.
And as we mentioned in the past that our key project Fayetteville Shale as long as we get $4 flat we hit our 1.3 PVI hurdle and can stay close to cash flow and all those other neat things we need to do.
So we're planning to be in this environment and I think we've got hedges for the next couple of years that would already pretty much tell us that we can stand that environment.
We will get the opportunity put on more hedges we're not done there.
And we're hoping for some cold spots during some of the winters coming up so we can do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So activity in the Fayetteville Shale will be sort of steady-state here over the next couple of years in this environment? Yes I would say at least steady-state.
If everyone -- to kind of remind everyone the way we designed our Fayetteville Shale this year we designed it to basically attempt to live within cash flow.
And as its production grows as long as the price gas price stays in this environment it will continue to give us excess cash flow.
And you might see us seem to creep up a little bit in our drilling.
We've got a lot wells to do there.
So that's the other moderator we put on Fayetteville Shale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And for my follow-up on the Smackover play obviously you're still drilling the wells so you probably have not much to offer on what you're seeing.
But what should we expect in terms of information coming from Southwestern on that well result? It sounds like this could be a sort of December of type event.
And what should we sort of expect? Is that IP rate? There were some extended flow rate test.
Or what kind of things do you plan on talking about? As far as what we know today we did take about 360 feet of core.
We've got all but about 10 feet of core.
So we got a very good sampling of the entire interval with our cores.
That's all in labs [ph] being looked at in various ways.
But first indication and again to remind everyone we were offsetting the well about a mile away that had a test on it and was cored.
And we didn't have the core to look at but we had some core data.
And everything we're seeing in the core today looks like the core about a mile away so it's confirming what we thought.
Even at the point where you can sometimes get indication whether it's oil or gas and this looks oily from what we're seeing in the core.
So that's where we're at as far as new information.
Then as we look forward what we're thinking about today is a little bit different than what we're thinking in the second quarter.
Second quarter we thought we would complete the entire well do all the stages of fracs in mid-November and certainly by December or early January have enough production data we could talk about the entire well.
What we're talking -- thinking about doing today and it's not completely finalized but what we're setting for today is basically splitting the well in half completing part of it with one set of stages between first and now the first both the stages and the first will be different and then producing it for a while coming back and completing the second half.
If we do that then you'll get some information late in the year on part of the well and how it's produced but you won't get the whole well until after the first year.
And we haven't quite finalized that so I can't guarantee it.
But I think 2 things to say.
Once we get information you won't see us press release probably but the second we get a chance to get a new quarterly data or year-end data or have a conference call we'll talk about whatever we've got on any wells that are out there.
And under the rules especially in Arkansas we have to put that data quickly to the state if you want to sell anything that came out of that well.
So the state will also have the information fairly quickly.
So there's nothing confidential  necessarily about the well test data or what we're seeing in the wells.
LLC Research Division</strong> And could you give -- you said you're going to split the well.
Why would you do that? We did this in the -- early on in some of our wells in Marcellus where you don't know -- you don't know a lot of things.
You don't know what the right frac fluid is.
You don't know what the right spacing to put the fracs in the well is and you don't know what the right spacing to put the perforations in the well.
And so one of the ways we've got to speak quickly in Marcellus was in our first few wells in say the total we put the perforations at one space in and then in the heel of the well we put another space in and we tested 2 different parts.
And so we could basically get information that would normally take you 2 wells to get in 1 well.
And we're talking about doing that same thing in this well where the fluid will be the same the amount of sand we put in general for frac will be the same.
But we might change the spacing of the fracs.
But we might change the spacing in the perforations just to see if there's a difference in how it produced to help us set up to help us complete the next well.
So just accelerating our knowledge by trying to figure out some of the little tweaks early on.
Our next question is from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve the question was on your second Smackover well.
You're going to do an 8 000 for lateral almost doubling the lateral length at your first well.
So just curious is this related to what you were just talking about in terms of being able to test different things? Or is that the comfort level with going ahead and starting to do longer laterals in terms of the productive potential of the horizon? It's both.
We want to see what a longer lateral would do.
And certainly longer lateral gives you more ways to test it.
But the other thing is that there's a difference between Arkansas and Louisiana.
Arkansas in their current rules you need to keep your wells in a square mile 640-acre section.
So if you're drilling either north south or east west you can only have about a 4 000-foot lateral.
In Louisiana you can put up to a 1 280-acre unit together and then you can drill a lot longer lateral.
So one of the reasons we're doing Louisiana because we can drill a longer lateral to test some of these things.
But the other part is the state rule will let you do it there.
I expect that once we figure out what the right lateral length is if it's not correct in Arkansas we'll go back just like we did in the Fayetteville Shale and be able to change some rules to make it the right length.
But right now the maximum lateral length in Arkansas is somewhere around 4 500 feet.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a second question on the Fayetteville side.
Your total efficiencies keep getting better in terms of days to drill.
So as you look at your '12 budget are you thinking about keeping the similar number of rigs the 12 rigs running even if you're going to drill a lot more wells if you're drilling days dropped down? Or are you thinking of keeping a constant number of wells and maybe moving one of the rigs to Marcellus or somewhere else? That's a good question.
I don't have an answer.
We've got some meetings next week that can help us with that.
We just have to look at where the capital is going and how the overall capital looks to figure out rig counts wherever we're at.
But if I had my preference we'll probably just keep the rigs the same let the well count creep up a little bit.
But that decision is still to be made.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes and the detailed '12 guidance will that come out in December or January? Historically sometime towards the middle of December we do something that talks about end of the year and 2012 numbers.
And unless there's something just really unusual I would expect the same thing would happen this year.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Wilmoth with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> 15% of budget this year is going to Marcellus.
I know it's stepping up next year.
Do we have any early indications of what that allocation percentage might be next year for the Marcellus? And what are current well costs running in the Marcellus? I don't know about this percentage of budget.
I can tell you that whether it's Marcellus or Fayetteville it's a little bit more expensive around the rig in the Marcellus.
But it's around $100 million per rig per year to drill and complete wells.
So when we talk about adding 2 rigs in the middle of the year that's equivalent to one running all year.
It sets 100 -- below $100 million of additional budget over the 2 rigs that are running now so you're going to start factoring in some dollars on that side.
As far as our well costs go I don't know yet what the typical well is going to be.
But the average that we've done today is just under 10 fracs per well and just over 4 000-foot lateral lengths.
Those are running by about $5.5 million to drill.
The one well that we had the 19-stage frac on we talked about last conference call was almost $8 million well in that case.
So that's kind of the range that we're looking at.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of following-on on some Fayetteville efficiencies.
Obviously days to drill ticking down.
A large number of wells I think 25 wells under 5 days.
I think the limiting factor there is using the 1 bit.
What can we expect for that going into 2012? Are you guys seeing something that you think you're going to be able to do this more frequently? Well I did a quick calculation.
19% of our wells last quarter were under 5 days.
So that's significantly higher than spent for any other quarter.
It's creeping up it's along those learning curves.
And we're trying to figure out where that might end up as we go out into 2012.
Certainly all indications I have is this year we guided that we'd average 9 days.
We missed badly.
We're going to average in mid-8s or even low 8s this year.
Next year you'll see some kind of average number less than 8 days per well.
Our next question is from the line of Gil Yang of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on -- it looks like the number of wells you're putting on per quarter has been sort of dropping.
Is there anything in particular going on there? No just how many wells are drilled.
If you think about the third quarter versus the second quarter and you're talking about Fayetteville Shale we moved 2 rigs from the Fayetteville Shale one late first quarter one late second quarter and then one in the -- yes late second quarter and then one in the first quarter up to the Marcellus.
And then we had to pick up 2 outside rigs and so there's about 1.5 weeks 2 weeks worth of time where we weren't drilling with the same number of rigs and so we were down at little bit on well count.
We're actually on number of wells in inventory almost identical quarter-over-quarter.
We usually have about 50 wells that are in some kind of completion stage.
And I think at the end of this quarter we're almost exactly 50.
At the end of the second quarter I think we're 39 or 40.
So it went up a couple of wells but it's in that same range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we shouldn't expect any major change in the number of wells? Fayetteville wells per quarter going forward should be on the order [ph] of130-ish? It goes back to that how fast you drill the wells.
But at the pace we're drilling right now between 130 and 135 136 wells is what we'll drill in the quarter and that will be about what we complete a quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
in the Smackover you added 27 000 acres in the last quarter.
Can you comment on what kind of acreage you're adding? Are you sort of filling sewing in the holes in the existing 400 000 acres? Or are you sort of stepping out on the edges? And can you comment on what you think quality of the acreage is outside of the 487 000 acres that you own? Well the area that we're actually buying in has a lot more acreage of 487 000 acres and it's close to 800 000 it's actually a little over 800 000 acres that we think could be a potential.
Now in that there's some people who already own some acreage and some of that gets contracted [ph] back out.
The reason you're seeing the acreage go up little bit and you'll see it over the next several quarters actually is that when we announced the play last quarter what we announced for the acreage we actually have is the acreage that we've found the landowner.
We've made a deal with the landowner.
We've checked title on it to make sure he actually own it and he's cashed the check.
There's some acreage and really the acreage we have this quarter and the acreage we're going to have the next 3 or 4 quarters that we found the landowner we signed a contract with them but we're out there doing the title work before we hand them the check and then they cash it to have it come in and be able to put in the courthouse.
So you're going to see it continue to go up but it's not because necessarily we're pushing the boundaries of the play or anything.
It is nothing more than it takes time to get the title work done especially in some of the smaller tracks that are out there.
So expect the acreage to go up but some of that acreage is right in the heart of the play or most of it is in the heart of the play.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And then my last question is can you just -- you went through a nice sort of summary of what you thought is going to happen to gas prices.
Could you just give us an idea of the 900 000 acres in the Fayetteville? What proportion is economic at $3 $3.50 $4 $4.50 gas? Let's start at kind of the 900 000 acres.
To remind everybody the 900 000 acres is a little over 600 000 that we've drilled on.
There's 100 -- about 60 000 acres that's federal acreage that we now have 6 wells on.
They're all verticals in their core but there's no testing been done on those wells.
And over the next several months we'll drill another 5 wells on that acreage.
And that's in a longer time frame to test and do something with.
And then we have almost 150 000 acres that is in the older established part of the play that we've got held by production for a long time and we'll get to it when we get to it.
So when we usually talk about how many wells we have left to drill we're only talking about what we've tested to date on 600 000 acres.
Now as you start thinking about the economics when I said that we needed to have $4 flat going forward that goes with a number that we always talk about the 8 000 net wells that we have to drill or on a gross basis.
Because at that net remember -- you need to remember we have 75% working interest.
On a gross basis that's almost 12 000 gross wells.
That's where the $4 number comes in.
If you drop down to $3.50 that 8 000 net drops down in the 2 000 net range at $3.50 so you do drop considerably off of that.
And I can't tell you what happens at $3.
There's going to be some piece of that that works at $3.
But somewhere in the high $3s it starts dropping off pretty quick.
Research Division</strong> So if you go to $4.50 do you add a lot more wells or is it still -- it tops out around 8 000? Yes where you start seeing the real increase in wells is with the other acreage.
It's not really with the pricing.
Because we pretty much got the spacing we need in almost all of our acreage at 600 000 is economic and that's $4.
There's a little bit of fringe stuff and I won't even guess it's 10% 15% that even if you went to $5 that would add to the well count.
Mainly the north and some of the shallow areas right around the fringe of our acreage and the outside.
Gil remember that the well count that Steve was talking about is to hit our 1.3 PVI target.
First we're staking out that well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're talking about NYMEX price? Yes.
Yes.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Bodino with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-up most of my questions have been answered.
With the laser line now in service in Northeast Pennsylvania can you give us a sense of what you expect to get completed in terms of the well count on the balance of the year in the Marcellus? Yes.
Where the laser line helps us is that it sends some gas to a little bit different pipelines so we get a little bit different price.
It doesn't really help us towards the end of the year on any of our takeaways because we don't go into laser.
Right now we're going into Stagecoach.
And really the only difference between what we're doing today and the end of the year will be Stagecoach has had some issues in September and October and actually today has some compression issues.
They did a major addition of compression in September right when the flooding was going on.
We're completely down for about 5 or 6 days and they've had some problem sensing.
But there is probably for us another 10 million to 15 million a day that we can get Stagecoach lines out there work that we've got committed.
We just haven't been able to put in a new line.
And then I mentioned we've got some permitting issues.
There is a fifth compressor we need to put up on a certain side.
We thought we've had that permit by now.
It looks like that will be late in the year.
If it comes sooner than that we probably going to 15 million to 20 million a day that we could put on between now and the end year but that's the only thing between now and the end of the year.
And really the numbers Greg mentioned earlier we assume the compressor that bumped up right at the very beginning of the year that was the compressor coming on in January was our assumption there.
That's where it comes from.
So the next significant jump is when the DTE line comes in and we'll kind of work our way up to that.
But the DTE line is some time in the second quarter.
Our next question is from the line of Robert Christensen of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Steve on this Lower Smackover first well how was the trajectory of the lateral going right now? I think you wanted to stay fairly low.
Is the drilling up to your expectations as we're in this lateral leg? I'll kind of give you 2 comments there.
The actual formation we drilled it vertically and we did the scoring actual formation came within 10 feet of exactly where we had our maps.
So it was dead-on in that direction.
And one of the reasons we wanted to drill through besides taking the core was we want to land in the bottom basically 40 or 50 feet at the Brown Dense.
We're in that.
I don't know exactly how many feet we're at right now.
We're at a couple of thousand feet at this point not quite 2 000 feet at this point.
And so far we're right in the zone and haven't had any issues.
Inc.</strong> Can you speak to Exxon's interest in the play? And I think one time you had mentioned that they had proposed a joint 3D seismic survey in their lands and yours.
Any thoughts on what that client might be doing? I really don't have any thoughts.
We're still talking about 3Ds and resuming some seismic together but we really haven't got any indication in the drilling that they may do.
And for everyone Exxon has a position basically east of where we're drilling almost in Louisiana-Arkansas border.
Inc.</strong> Could you characterize what the 1 or 2 principal risks are in this exploratory well? I think there's 2 risks.
The one is well the one core we have in the area shows good porosity permeability all the things that you'd hope to see in the core.
You just don't know outside of that one core what the real characteristic of all the rock is.
You've done a lot of calculations but you need to get some cores you need to get some other wells with a lot of data.
And very well could be that there's parts of this play that don't have those characteristics and are too tight or have some issue you can't frac on them.
And so the play is smaller than you think it is.
That would be one issue.
I think the other issue you get the Brown Dense.
The Brown Dense that we're going for is 300- to 500-foot thick.
Right above the Brown Dense is the middle Smackover.
The middle Smackover is about 150-foot thick.
It is a very very tight bright white limestone and we're considering it to seal for the Brown Dense.
And then above that tight limestone is the conventional Smackover that all of these fields in Southern Arkansas and North Louisiana produce oil from for all these years.
That upper Smackover has very high porosity permeability and has water.
So somehow it is from a fault that would go from the porous [ph] Smackover all the way down into the Brown Dense or from -- it would be really strange to have a frac that high.
But if somehow you could fracture all the Brown Dense through 200 feet of tight rock and then get into that you can actually have water come from that up the interval.
So those are the 2 risks in the play.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Hsulin Peng of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up question.
The $5.5 million Marcellus well cost is that with pad drilling? And second question is are you -- can you talk about the service cost trends that you're seeing in Marcellus and also the availability? Okay.
Your first question had to do with the -- whether that was all-in cost? Research Division</strong> Right.
Also with that pad drilling if you're anticipating any sort of additional savings from that? Yes.
All of our wells to date have had basically pad drilling.
I think the fewest number of wells we put on a pad is 3.
And as I said we're about ready to do a 5-well pad.
So there's some if you want to call it cost savings efficiency something from drilling 2 or 3 to a pad.
Ultimately I think you're going to have less wells per pad in Pennsylvania than you do in Fayetteville Shale.
And the reason I say that it looks like it's going to be a wider spacing.
When we talk about 40- and 60-acre spacing in Fayetteville shale it looks like it's going to be over 100 acres spacing here.
So you won't have as much chance as pad efficiency because you're going to have more pads and fewer wells per pad.
But that's still all to be learned on that side of it.
Now as far as costs go I've got to frame this a little bit.
In the case of the Marcellus to drill an identical well in the Fayetteville Shale to that $5.5 million well in the Marcellus would probably be in the high 3s $3.6 million $3.7 million.
So there is significant cost differences between Fayetteville and Marcellus.
Some of those are terrain some of those are permitting some of those are water handling that you're -- they're just different and you're not going to get around them.
The other part of those are just your -- the fact that the rig count has gone up so quickly in Pennsylvania and the services have been difficult to find historically.
You're starting to see the services because the rig count stayed flat for the last 6 or 7 months the services are starting to be more available to you.
And I have said this in the past this time last year if you could find frac equipment you took whatever you had and it didn't matter how good the equipment was how bad the equipment was you just took it and went with it.
Today you can actually call in 30 days down the road talk to several vendors and get frac equipment out there.
Cost they're still about 20% higher than Fayetteville Shale but they're flat really from -- they've gone down a little bit from the beginning of the year but they've been flat the last couple of quarters.
Our next question is from Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> On the new business ventures group the other 0.5 million acres what will it take to have some more open discussion with us in terms of where it's located and what the plant would be? What are we waiting for Steve? Yes it's just like -- it was before we announced the Brown Dense play.
We need to get all the acreage we've kind of targeted for any one if those areas.
And once we get the acreage put together in any of those areas and we've controlled what we think we need to control then we'll start talking about it.
And I would expect that next year we'll talk about at least one more area with the pace we're going right now and some of the ones we're doing.
And again that acreage isn't just one area.
There is more than one area we're putting acreage together on.
So I would expect that next year third quarter conference call we've got some acreage and you're asking the same question.
But one we're going to know about this as well.
Inc.</strong> Okay okay.
Back to the Fayette really quick.
If I look at the decline curve for greater than 4 000- greater by 5 000-foot laterals towards the back end of the decline curve I see a kind of bounce back up in kind of productivity rates a couple of hundred days down the road.
Can you tell us kind of why? Is that a data aberration or associated gas coming out? Any thoughts on that front? No.
I don't think -- it's a good question.
I think it's more data aberration.
And one of the things we're do on our curves is we try and show you how many wells that go into that portion of the curve and we do it by color coding.
In the top blue curve when it starts bumping up especially -- I'd say you were 400 days on.
You can see that there's only about 36 wells and it dropped quickly down to one well versus the beginning of that curve is over 250 wells in it.
And so I think you're just seeing an aberration of those various wells just having only 30 versus 250.
Now I think the other part of what you are asking though is we do have a significant amount of what we call absorbed gas.
And absorbed gas comes out with a pressure drop.
In the flattening you see on all those curves it doesn't matter which lateral length is showing that absorbed gas.
And in our case about 40% of our gas that we have is what we call free gas.
It's in the fractures.
That's what gives you the IP that's what gives you your beginning first year 1.5 year production.
And we're probably in some of these now.
We've got an update on them.
And although the curves that flattening is you're actually starting to see some absorbed gas coming in the system.
Our next question is from the line of Michael McAllister with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> My question is from your comments I guess earlier in the Q&amp;A about the type of Marcellus wells that you want to drill with longer laterals and greater frac stages should we be using a something higher or something closer to $7 million per well as a cost going forward rather than the $5.5 million which is the 10-stage frac number? I don't know the answer to that.
If just -- and really I'm just guessing here.
And I'm guessing as much from our experience as well as just hearing anecdotally from some of the operators around us.
My guess is we're not going to end up with a 10- 11-stage average that it will probably 14- 15-stage.
14- to 15-stage well would be $6.5 million to $7 million dollars.
So I'm thinking it's going in that direction but we're still doing a lot of testing to make sure that really is right or not.
Research Division</strong> So you're still going to be like in a mix for the price? Yes.
For a while we're going to be in a mix.
And the other thing that everyone needs to keep in mind in Pennsylvania part of your lateral length is how you can put your units together.
And most of the units that we have are in the 500- to 700-acre size units which would be between 4 000 and maybe as high as 6 000-foot laterals.
We do have some that are bigger.
But that also does a little bit of limitation on lateral length which also -- and then factors back in a number of stages also.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And will Southwestern be leveraging William Way's international experience? We certainly had talked to various international operators that they -- we get called all the time if somebody wants to learn about what we're doing and how we're doing.
And if the right deal came along you might see us do something with someone.
But it's not the primary driver of what we're doing.
Our primary driver is work in North America and pick up this acreage and working on going in that direction.
So another way to answer that of that New Ventures acreage that we're not talking much about none of that at this point is in Canada and none of it's international or someplace else.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
I started today saying we're very excited and we're very excited for a lot of different reasons.
We continue to make very good money in today's price environment.
And as I talked about we think it's going to be around for a while and we believe we're one of few operators that can really do that.
We're excited about the Fayetteville Shale.
And in the case of Fayetteville Shale we're doing pad drilling.
The days are coming down.
We're getting more efficient there's more efficiency to take out.
So we're comfortable that over the next few years we can drill wells at the same cost we're doing today and continue to do what we're doing on the production and EUR side of that.
And I'm excited about Pennsylvania and we've shown the graphs in our presentation that we sent out.
And those wells are looking really good.
We do have the firm that we need to ramp up our production.
We're getting the rigs and so we're starting to get that going in our direction as well.
And then when you look at the New Ventures we're drilling that first well in the Brown Dense.
We're continuing to get more information in New Brunswick.
So things are working for us.
We're looking forward to a really good fourth quarter and a really exciting 2012.
And with that I thank you for listening on our call today and I wish you the best over the next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to Southwestern Energy's Fourth Quarter Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller President and CEO.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our fourth quarter and year end 2011 results you can find a copy on our website www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during the teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the Forward-Looking Statements sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe these expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Let's begin.
2011 was another record year for Southwestern Energy.
We set new records in production reserves and as a result of our 24% production growth we achieved the highest earnings and cash flow in our company's history.
We produced 500 Bcfe driven largely by our Fayetteville Shale play where our production grew 25% to 437 Bcf.
Our production from Marcellus Shale also grew from 1 Bcf in 2010 to 23 Bcf in 2011 while our Ark-La-Tex production declined from 54 Bcf in 2010 to 40 Bcf in 2011.
Our year-end proved reserves also increased by 19% to a record 5.9 trillion cubic feet of gas.
Approximately 100% of our reserves were natural gas and 45% were classified as proved undeveloped.
We replaced 299% of our 2011 production at a finding and development cost of $1.31 per Mcfe including revisions.
This along with our all-in cash cost of $1.27 per Mcfe give us one of the lowest cost structures in the industry.
The year -- this year has already started out to be a challenge but as I tell our employees our goal is not just to survive it's to thrive.
Now to talk about our operating areas.
In the Fayetteville Shale we added 1.2 Tcf of new reserves at a finding and development cost of $1.13 per Mcf.
Total proved reserves booked in the Fayetteville Shale play at year-end 2011 were 5.1 Tcf up 17% from the reserves booked at the end of 2010.
We spud 580 operated wells in the Fayetteville Shale during 2011 and placed a record 560 operated wells on production resulting in a gross production from our operated wells to increase from 1.6 Bcf a day at the first of the year to 1.9 Bcf per day at the end of the year.
We saw continued improvement in our drilling practice in the Fayetteville Shale in 2011 as our operated horizontal wells are at an average completed well cost of $2.8 million per well average horizontal length of 4 836 feet and average time to drill of 8 days from re-entry to re-entry.
This compared to approximately the same cost in 2010 with a shorter lateral.
We also placed 73 wells on production during 2011 that were drilled in 5 days or less.
In total we have drilled 104 wells to date in 5 days or less.
It is amazing that it has taken 7 years since first production to transition the Fayetteville Shale drilling program from establishing first wells in this section to drilling multiple wells from a pad.
Our average initial producing rates were approximately 3.3 million cubic foot per day compared to last year's 3.4 million cubic foot per day average rate.
And in the fourth quarter of 2011 this average rate was over 3.6 million cubic foot of gas per day.
Now switching to Pennsylvania.
We added 327 Bcf in new reserves at a finding and development cost of $1.02 per Mcf.
Total proved reserves booked at our Marcellus Shale area at year-end 2011 was 342 Bcf up from the 38 Bcf booked at the year-end 2010.
As of year-end 2011 we had spud 70 wells 23 of which were put on production and 67 of which were horizontals.
Total daily production from the area was approximately 133 Mcf (sic) [MMcf] per day at December 31 and limited by high line pressures.
Our operator horizontal wells had an average completed well cost of $6.4 million per well average horizontal lateral length of 4 007 feet and an average of 14 -- of 12 fracture stimulation stages.
The average gross proved reserves for the undeveloped wells included in our year-end reserves was approximately 7.5 Bcf per well and approximately 8.6 Bcf per well for our proved developed wells in 2011.
As for new ventures at December 31 2011 we had 3.6 million net undeveloped acres of which 2.5 million acres were located in New Brunswick Canada and the remaining approximately 1.1 million acres were located in the United States.
In New Brunswick we have invested approximately $24 million through December 31 2011 and have acquired 248 miles of 2D seismic.
In 2012 we intend to acquire approximately 130 additional miles of 2D and our current plan includes drilling 2 stratigraphic well tests in the fourth quarter of 2012.
In our Lower Smackover Brown Dense play in southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana we hold approximately 520 000 net acres at an average cost of $375 per acre.
Earlier this month weve began flowing back our first well in the area the Roberson 18-19 #1-15H located in Columbia County Arkansas.
This well had a vertical depth of approximately 9 369 feet and horizontal lateral length of approximately 3 600 feet and was completed in 11 stages.
The lateral was landed in the lower 1/3 of the zone and subsequent core analysis indicated this section had some of the lowest permeability in the entire interval.
The well has been producing from 8 of the 11 stages fracture stimulated.
It has produced for 20 days of the originally planned 20- to 30-day cleanup period.
Well production began on day 8 with the highest 24-hour rates to date of 103 barrels of oil per day 200 Mcf per day of gas and 1 009 barrels of load water per day.
45% of load has been recovered to date.
Our second well the Garrett 7-23-5H #1 located in Claiborne Parish Louisiana was drilled to a total depth in February 2012 of approximately 10 863 feet with a 6 536-foot horizontal lateral.
And fracture stimulations are planned to begin on March 1.
Knowledge gains from the first well allowed us to drill the second well with no troubles and allowed us to target the Brown Dense drilling in the lateral and -- at no problems allowed us to target the Brown Dense.
Drilling in the lateral was not only faster but oil shows in cuttings indicated better-quality rock.
We have also spud our third well located in Union Parish Louisiana and is drilling at 7 900 feet.
We're looking forward to learning more about this play and our activity could increase dramatically if it is successful.
We also discussed that we hold 238 000 net acres located in DJ Basin in Eastern Colorado where we will begin testing a new unconventional oil play targeting middle and late Permian to Pennsylvanian carbonates and shales.
The play ranges in vertical depth from 8 000 to 10 500 feet and are within the oil window.
Our primary Atoka-Marmaton objectives are alternating low-permeability 20- to 100-foot thick carbonates separated by 10- to 75-foot thick organic-rich carbonate mudstones with total organic carbon estimates ranging from 2% to 27%.
Total thickness of the objective section ranges from 300 feet to 750 feet.
This acreage was obtained for approximately $176 per acre and the company's leases currently have an 85% average net revenue interest and average primary lease term of 5 years which may be extended for an additional 3 years.
To date no production has been established in the immediate area.
However there have been mud log shows and gas shows oil-saturated cores and free oil and drill-stem tests in the objective section.
We have measured 36 degree API oil and fluid inclusions and have seen microporosity in both the limes and shale in the lime sections as well as microporosity in SCM analysis.
The closest oil production from the objective formations is the Great Plains field which is located 65 miles to the southeast in Lincoln County.
The field discovered in 2009 has 12 wells and has produced nearly 1 million barrels of 36 gravity API oil from conventional carbonate porosity zones.
Earlier this month we submitted a drilling plan to the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission for approval to spud our first well in Adams County in the second quarter of 2012.
This well is planned as a 9 500-foot vertical pilot well to the lower Pennsylvanian Morrow Formation.
The pilot well will be cored and then a 2 000-foot lateral will be drilled in the Marmaton objective.
A second 9 500-foot vertical test is planned to the south which will also drill to the Morrow Formation and will core the objective section.
Again if this drilling program yields positive results activity in this area could increase significantly over the next several years.
You've probably noticed that I haven't mentioned gas prices.
We are preparing for low gas prices throughout this year as well as possibly for all of 2013.
We will continue to be flexible with our capital investments and be sure that we are doing the right things with every dollar we invest.
As a result we have decreased the 2012 capital investment program from our previous guidance in December.
Currently we plan to invest approximately $2.1 billion in 2012 compared to the $2.3 billion plan we announced back in December.
The decrease is primarily from the Fayetteville Shale program and the associated decrease in production is approximately 10 Bcf or down 2% from the midpoint of our previous guidance.
Gas production is now expected to grow at 13%.
We will remain focused on keeping our costs as low as possible during this time and will remain vigilant in upholding our commitment to create value for every dollar we invest.
I will now turn this over to Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
As Steve noted our earnings and cash flow set new records in 2011 as our strong production growth combined with our low cost structure had more than offset the impact of lower gas prices.
For the calendar year we reported net income of $638 million or $1.82 per share up 6% from the prior year.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was up 12% to $1.8 billion.
Operating income for our Exploration and Production segment was $825 million compared to $829 million in 2010.
For the year we grew our production to 500 Bcf and realized an average gas price of $4.19 per Mcf which was down 10% from 2010.
We currently have 266 Bcf or approximately 47% of our 2012 projected natural gas production hedged through fixed price swaps and collars at a weighted average floor price of $5.16 per Mcf.
Our hedge position combined with the cash flow generated by our midstream gathering business provides protection on approximately 65% of our total expected cash flow for 2012.
Our detailed hedge position is included in our Form 10-K filed earlier this morning.
We continue to have one of the lowest cost structures in our industry with all-in cash operating costs of approximately $1.27 per Mcf in 2011.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A interest and taxes.
Our lease operating expenses per unit of production were $0.84 per Mcf in 2011 compared to $0.83 in 2010.
The slight increase was primarily due to increased gathering costs in our Fayetteville Shale play.
Our general and administrative expenses per unit of production declined to $0.27 per Mcf in 2011 down from $0.30 in 2010.
The decrease was primarily due to the effects of our increased production volumes.
Taxes other than income taxes were $0.11 per Mcf in both 2011 and 2010.
Our full cost pool amortization rate also declined during 2011 to $1.30 per Mcf down from $1.34 in the prior year.
The decline was due to a combination of our lower finding and development costs and the sale of natural gas and oil properties in East Texas.
Operating income for our Midstream Services segment rose 29% to $248 million in 2011 and EBITDA for the segment was $285 million.
The increase was primarily due to increased gathering revenues related to our Fayetteville and Marcellus Shale plays and an increase in the margin from our gas marketing activities.
At December 31 2011 our midstream segment was gathering approximately 2.1 Bcf of natural gas per day through approximately 1 800 miles of gathering lines in the Fayetteville Shale play compared to gathering 1.8 Bcf per day a year ago.
Our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio declined to 25% at the end of 2011 down from 27% at the end of 2010.
At December 31 2011 we had approximately $1.3 billion in long-term debt including $672 million borrowed on our revolving credit facility.
In summary our financial and operating results in 2011 were some of the best in the company's history.
We have the ability to weather the current low natural gas price environment and cannot only survive but thrive in these times due to our strong balance sheet the quality of our assets and one of the industry's lowest cost structures.
That concludes my comments and I will turn back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Steve can you talk a little bit about the well results in the Smackover play? You indicated that it had low permeability in the lowest most formation and you're looking to sit the next well up a little bit higher.
Can you talk about just on a relative basis what kind of perm you actually saw and how the upper members of that is compared? And maybe put it in reference to some other unconventional plays to help us out as well.
Sure.
We haven't got all of the information back on the cores for all the permeability.
So some of the statements I'm going to make here are generalities from just a little bit of information.
But to remind everyone as we looked at this play going into it we were looking at on the low side 0.1 microdarcies.
And then we had as high as 2  or 3 microdarcies-type rock that we were looking at.
The core had some very good permeability in the upper part of it.
And to put it in a kind of a relative sense the lower part was on that lower end of the microdarcy range.
The upper was almost 5x as good as the lower portion as you looked at it.
Now one of the questions you asked why did we land in the lower part of the well? If you remember going into this well we didn't know what the fractures were going to do and we were about 500 feet away from a wet zone that we didn't want to fracture into.
So we intentionally landed as low as we could in the zone drilled out the lateral.
And then the very first test we did if you remember we frac-ed 3 stages and just flowed those back to see if we were getting any unusual water.
We weren't.
We did microseismic on the 3 stages.
We went back did the other 8 stages for a total 11 stages microseismic on it.
And now that we've got the microseismic in we've seen that -- how we've only extended up our fracs somewhere around 100 to 150 feet above.
So we didn't even get into the better rock with the fracs that we did in the first well -- the first zone.
So we're excited about having 100 barrels a day coming out of the rock we have.
It's some of the lower permeability rock that's out there.
It would be the lower end of either the Bakken or Eagle Ford-type rock and we know that we've got some better rock up above us.
The second well in Louisiana you've got to remember you're roughly 30 miles away.
The actual porosity in it and permeability is thicker than in our first well and there's some geologic reasons we think that happened in that direction.
But we were able to land it in the top half and basically roughly the top 1/3.
And we drilled much much faster and looks much better overall to the point that in the first well where we had good shows when we were drilling it the shows we were seeing were just fluorescents.
In the second well we actually had a little bit of free oil on the pit.
So both of those have a little bit of difference to them as far as that goes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay that's good color.
And in terms of like -- I guess you had about 1 000 barrels of water load on this one.
Where do you expect I guess for that second one? Being higher up it doesn't sound like you're concerned about frac-ing into any kind of water.
But what would you expect -- I mean if you put a stronger frac on this do you anticipate a better flow rate from the oil? And is there any risk then being higher up that you're going to frac into the ocean above? I don't think there's any risk we're going to frac in the ocean because again that last frac only extended a couple of 150 feet at the most up.
And where we've landed right now if it extends 150 foot up it barely gets to the top of the zone.
So that's not an issue at all from a frac-ing standpoint.
You need to remember that second well is a 6 500-foot lateral.
We will frac it very similar to the first well as far as number of stages per so many feet of lateral.
Roughly 400 feet apart on the stages.
We will roughly do 3 to 4 perf [ph] intervals before each stage.
So we'll end up with over 20 stages of frac on the second well.
So even if it was the same quality rock I would expect to get much better rates.
Now the other part of your question was I think having to do with how much water should we expect when this is all done.
And we don't see from core analysis that much water in the formation itself.
But that's one of the things we're trying to learn.
We don't know what the amount of load water we ultimately have to get back before it's completely cleaned up.
We know we're 45% now on the first well.
We do know that as the load water has gone down it took to the 8th day to see the oil is lower continues to go down the well continues to go up.
So all of that's still progressing.
But there will be a point in here either on the first well or any of these other wells we drill where we'll determine how much load water gets left in the formation how much we can actually get out and what the ultimate oil versus -- either gas or oil versus water rate is.
LLC Research Division</strong> And are you going to press release the result of that well? Or are we going to wait to the I guess your next quarterly update? Or how is that news flow going to come out? We don't like press-releasing wells so my guess is we'll wait until the next time we have something to talk about something else whether it's end of the quarter or something else we have to talk about.
Our next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to continue along the Brown Dense can you talk about what you saw in terms of API and sell through for the oil in both -- in all 3 of the wells that you've seen information from so far? We're looking at mid-30 API 35 36 gravity API oil.
And that matches with the well tests that were in the area before.
If you remember there's some vertical wells that we had some tests on.
And so from that standpoint oil looks about the same as any of the other ones out there.
On the H2S side we're still trying to get a handle.
There are days we get little wisps of H2S.
And then other times we get almost no H2S.
But right now it doesn't look like H2S is significant in any of the wells that we've drilled or where we're at today in the 2 wells.
And then we do have a little bit of CO2 that we're seeing in this well.
And again because we haven't got all the water lifted off of it we don't know if that's going to stay in the well or not but there's a few parts per million of CO2 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Have you seen the CO2 in the vertical wells that you looked at? They didn't report any.
And again those tests went from 1946 to like 2 years ago.
The only real good information is the ones a couple of years ago and there weren't any on that.
CO2 if you have some kind of reaction at all with the carbonate that's in the formation CO2 is just one of those things that comes with that.
And so as we frac the well we could have easily had a little bit of CO2 just as a part of that frac process.
And once the well cleans up you may not see CO2.
On the other hand there may be just be a little bit of CO2 with the gas.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And can -- and just a sort of separate question is can you just talk about the negative revisions on performance in Fayetteville in particular but both for the 2 areas where you reported that? Well I think the easy answer on the whole thing is there's all kinds of things going to the various wells.
But the easy answer is it's mainly price but -- because we're about $0.12 difference from year-over-year.
I will say in the case of the Fayetteville Shale we took a little bit different approach to how we're doing our reserves this year and that fine-tuned the whole project for us.
And in fine tuning we had a bunch of wells that were a lot better and we had a bunch of wells that were a little bit less.
And it kind of averaged out to that.
So there isn't anything more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So what you're saying is that the negative revisions were to a large degree more -- they're really price revisions not performance revisions? Yes.
The biggest negative revisions anywhere was in Arkoma and it was one field called the Overton field.
And some wells fell out because of price and then there was just some production revisions there.
But like I say there's not much there one way or the other on the revision side.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions the first is continuing on the Brown Dense.
When you look at the lower portion that you did frac into what are your thoughts on both oil in place or more importantly recovery rate? And does the low permeability you saw there could kick them [ph] up to 1/3 of what you thought was theoretically possible previously? We're trying to figure that out Brian.
One of the things we do with our first well -- and really the first second and third well are all offsetting within 1 mile or so some of these vertical tests that we're doing.
And at this first well we offset about 1 mile 1.5 miles away from another well.
It was actually drilled on top of a structure and that original well was drilled on that structure as well.
It looks like that on the top of that structure geologically the rock did not -- at least the history of the rock wasn't the same as opposed to the rock that's off the structure.
So as you get over towards our well we drilled in Louisiana and some of the other wells around there that section that has good porosity actually gets thicker.
So in our second well almost 70% 75% of the section has that high porosity in it wherein our first well it was almost 50-50.
So as far as oil in place certainly the tighter the rock -- doesn't change so much the oil in place but your recovery will change on that.
And we're just going to need some more wells to figure out how variable that is and just to figure out what's going on from there.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is with regards to the Marcellus.
Can you just compare and contrast the well results that you're seeing recently in Bradford County versus Susquehanna County? Well we don't have any wells yet put on production in Susquehanna County.
When we talked about all those wells that we drilled -- we'll see our first Susquehanna wells come on production in sometime in the middle of March.
So I can't tell you much about those yet.
In Bradford we have a variance on those wells.
I think the best well we have is probably well over 15 Bcf.
And we talked about the averages but I think the lesser of the wells we have out there are probably about a 5 Bcf well in what we've seen.
And they're really -- as far as where is better and where is worse we haven't seen that pattern yet to know exactly that.
On the same pad where we drilled 3 wells it could vary from 6 to the 10 or 12 Bcf range.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I have a couple of questions on the Fayetteville.
You booked 2.4 Bs per well.
When I look at that type curve plot that you provide and you show the curve with the wells over 4 000-foot laterals and almost all the wells you're drilling are 4 000-foot plus it looks like your wells are tracking over a 3 Bcf type curve but you're only booking 2.4 and you didn't have many positive revisions.
So what should I think about the differences between the type curves you're providing and what you're booking? I think there's a few things to think about there.
First off when you think about reserves remember the definition of a proved undeveloped has to be you're 90% certain.
So you're going to take your distributions and take a median rather than an average to start with.
Secondly all of those curves that we have in our literature for the most part except for just a little bit of drilling last year were drilled on that mile-apart spacing as we were doing our first wells in the section.
And we've always said as we get to our PUD drilling what's going to happen is you're going to have 10% -- somewhere around 10% interference in ideal case.
So what you need to do is back off of that.
And again if you back off what would be a 3 Bcf well you get about a 2.7-Bcf well.
Now you say you want to be conservative you're down that 2.4 to 2.5 range as far as that goes.
The other thing to keep in mind is you book around where you drilled during the year.
And if you remember we spent a lot of time during the year proving up acreage on what I call the edges of the field.
And that's where we've booked our wells as we put the wells out there.
So there's a little bit of distribution of wells.
We only have around 1 600 wells total booked as far as PUDs.
And so there's a little bit of location this year versus some of the other years on it as well that goes into those PUD bookings.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up on the -- you all talked about the PV to I [ph] hurdle and not wanting to drill wells that are below the PV to I [ph] hurdle.
Is the Fayetteville -- with current gas prices is the Fayetteville below that hurdle now? And if so would you potentially reduce activity more if gas stays around $3? Or are you drilling better locations to make sure you hit the hurdle rate? What should we think about that? What we've done with our 2012 budget besides cutting back a little bit on the Fayetteville Shale from what we originally announced we're also changing to the point where we're going to drill the very best wells.
And again in about any of these plays and we just talked about Pennsylvania you've got distribution of reserves and you've got some very very good wells and you've got some lesser wells in there with some kind of average.
We've talked about in the past that to drill our average well we need around $4 price.
Well we have at least a couple of years' worth of wells that we can drill if it stayed $3 flat forever in the Fayetteville Shale and that's what we're doing.
We're drilling those very best wells.
May see a little bit of inefficiencies in what we're doing as -- rather than drilling all the wells from a pad at one time we'll go in and drill the best well off the pad and then move to another one.
You'll also see us widen out our spacing a little bit here to make sure that we get better wells.
And we'll come back later and put some more in-fill wells into that overall spacing.
So we're adjusting our program but certainly if it's $3 flat forever we've got wells to get us through this year and into next year and we're looking for other ones beyond that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Do you have a feel for the -- about how much better on average the wells would be that you're drilling this year versus last year in terms of EUR or IP? Yes.
We're going to need those 3 Bcf wells you're talking about.
So that's what we're shooting for to be plus 3 -- plus 3 going on plus 3.5.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Just noticed that the New Ventures budget has dropped meaningfully.
Just curious what the underlying drivers or revisions to that budget were.
Is that to account for less drilling or reduced expectations around new programs? Just a little more information would be helpful.
What we did was we had put in some dollars for some new plays in the budget and expanding some of the plays we're already working on.
And we backed off on that.
That's where most of the back-off is.
And then we're watching the Brown Dense close but we assume we would do one less Brown Dense well than we said to prove it up.
And we did that on the assumption the industry's going to drill wells around us and to be able to do that.
So it's at least one well less and then some acreage.
And we'll just look at that and play it out through the year.
If we come up with a really good idea we're not going to slow down picking up that acreage on a good idea especially if it's an oil idea.
But that's where it's at.
It's really not changing any of the drilling we want to do this year or the plays that we're getting close to finishing on.
It's not affecting those at all.
Okay.
And then in the new DJ Basin opportunity my understanding is that the wells that have been drilled in that Great Plains field were vertical wells.
Can you just I guess provide a little more information on how you decided to target horizontal in the Morrow section...
And the Marmaton? Those along with the Marmaton section and then just kind of what the overall geologic setting is that's being pursued here.
Right.
To kind of get everyone in perspective you hear about Niobrara play.
This is deeper than Niobrara.
It's in the Pennsylvanian H section.
There's Marmaton or Atoka interval roughly in that 8 000 to 10 000-foot depth range.
The field that we talked about the Great Plains field is quite a ways away.
It's almost 65 miles away from where we're drilling our first well.
And as you said it's drilled and is being developed vertically.
And the reason it's being developed vertically is there's over a 2 000-foot section of potential rock interval.
And there's in that anywhere from 300 to 700 feet of potential pay that's within the interval.
Their best well in that field has -- this was drilled back in 2009.
It's already produced 247 000 barrels in 20 months and it IP-ed at 1 500 barrels a day.
That's a 24-hour IP first 30 days of 634 barrels a day.
So there are some very good wells in that field.
There's also some other wells in that field that their 30-day rates were as low as 100 barrels a day.
So there's a lot of variability.
But therein lies the thought behind doing it vertically versus doing it horizontally.
We may end up ultimately having a vertical play here but we think we've identified a couple of fairly thick zones in our acreage that would lend itself well to horizontals.
And if there is a lot of variability in a lateral sense if we can do it the horizontals we might be able to streamline some of that range.
I've seen Great Plains where they have 100 barrel a day wells and then they have 1 000 barrel a day wells there.
So I don't know what the ultimate answer is going to be whether it's going to be horizontal or vertical but we'll start -- that first well will be drilled through the whole section.
We'll put a short lateral to see what happens and specifically in the Marmaton interval.
And then that second well is actually planned to be a vertical well.
So we're still playing with both of those as we go through.
The other thing just to note is that while Great Plains field is the closest field to what we're doing there is 96 wells in the immediate area in southeastern Colorado that have produced out of this section.
So it's well known by the industry.
It is only in the southern part of the state.
And the very north end of our acreage gets on the edge of what would be the Niobrara play.
But we really don't have a Niobrara section on our acreage.
This is that deeper Pennsylvanian section for anything we're doing.
So this is more like a sort of Texas Panhandle stack wash opportunity? Some of the sections are almost identical to what's going on in the Panhandle.
But yes that's exactly what it is.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question just thinking about the Lower Smackover Brown Dense.
Does the first well confirm or eliminate any acreage? Not at this point it doesn't.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And to be clear the frac -- the water that you're producing is from the frac load not the reservoir currently? Yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what percentage of frac load would you expect to be able to recover in kind of -- in that 30-day window? Or do you think it's going to take longer than 30 days now? Well it looks like it'll take longer.
I don't know.
I just don't have a good feel for that.
We're continuing -- as you saw we're still getting 1 000 of barrels a day of fluid back.
So it's not cleaned up yet and it's still giving us frac load back.
So I don't know.
Is this going to take 45 days or 60 days or 90 days? I just don't know.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess it'd be hard to predict what a stabilized oil rate would be as well given you...
I can't even start guessing yet.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Exactly.
Then thinking on another -- on the midstream do you have a thought around what the industry-wide gross exit rate would be for this year for your midstream business? I would say -- and what you're asking me to do is kind of predict what -- besides what we're going to do predict what the rest of the industry's going to do.
I think we're seeing a slowdown in the other industry partners as well.
But I haven't heard any exact announcements to know how much it's slowing down.
If you step back to October November time frame both the other major players BHP and XTO were going to actually add rigs.
And it looks like they're going to add rigs in areas where we were going to be gathering gas for them.
Today we're getting indications that if there is any rigs added they're not going to be drilled where we're gathering.
So I would guess that through the year we'll have a little bit of decline in our third-party gas.
Where today it's about 170 million to 180 million a day it will probably decline some maybe 150 million during the year.
And then we'll be growing our production in the Fayetteville Shale in a double-digit kind of rate.
So whatever that comes up is that 2.3 2.4 Bcf a day somewhere in that range 2.2? I don't know.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from the line of Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly with the adjustments to the capital budget that took place pretty rapidly here with the fall down in gas prices how quickly would you look at revising that back upward if gas prices were to start to improve in the second half of the year? And where would you direct your first dollars as you put capital back to work? I sure hope we come across that situation where it comes up in the second half of the year.
But I think -- we're expecting that we're in the price range we're going to be through this year and the next year.
The real key for adding anything back is what you think the long-term price is going to be.
And so even if it jumped up for a short period of time at the end of the year I don't know that that would make us change our mind.
But if we started seeing the fundamentals change so that we could generate something above that $4 range certainly then you'd see us add.
Of the things we have in hand we really would like to accelerate Pennsylvania no matter what the price range is.
But what's limiting us in Pennsylvania right now is our firm capacity and we're following that curve with the rigs we have.
We're working hard on adding more firm and so you may see us even redirect some more capital in that direction during the year.
Certainly on the New Ventures if any of those come in -- those are oil those are different price dependency you can see us do some things.
And in the Fayetteville we are doing things to get our costs down.
And one of the things we're doing is we're going to go into the pumping business and so we're going to further vertically integrate.
We'll have 2 units that we operate in operation by the end of the year.
And we should save ourselves about $140 000 per well on the wells that we're drilling with our own pumping equipment.
So in that case as we cut the costs down then we might be able to add some rigs back in.
And then the other thing we're watching closely is just how fast we're drilling.
In the December release we said that we were going to drill in basically mid-7-day time frame.
We're beating that right now.
So while we're dropping rigs the well count isn't dropping as fast.
So we have to watch that too.
But all of that we will watch as we go through the year.
And then we'll either add or subtract as the year plays out or as 2013 starts to unfold.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up a little while back you guys indicated that at $3 gas you figure you have about 1 200 well locations in the Fayetteville down from say 8 000 locations at $4 gas.
If we use sort of the same price mechanisms to think about maybe where year-end prices might end this year I wouldn't imagine it would be a 1:1 decrease in your proved reserves as a portion of it would be proved developed producing.
But what kind of a decline do you think you'd have on your reserve base under that sort of a scenario where it went from $4 to $3 and your identified locations dropped by 70% 75%? It will be challenging and I don't know the exact answer.
We have not gone through that calculation.
But everyone needs to think about the fact that now that you do reserves on a rolling 12 month average as we even go into second and third quarters you're going to start seeing higher numbers last year roll off and lower numbers this year going into that average.
So while year-over-year there was only something like a $0.15 or $0.16 difference in average price that is going to decrease significantly by the time we get to the summer just with the first 3 months this year as you go through.
So I think all of the industry's going to have some challenges on what they can book and not book.
But we haven't done enough analysis to be able to tell you what the issues are going to be.
I just know there are issues coming up.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research Associates.
Steve 2 questions.
The first is can you give us sort of your logic as to where you go in the Lower Smackover? I mean you started with Roberson you go to Garrett BML was chosen third.
And just the logic of going around sort of that triangle.
Why first? Why second? Why third? We picked Roberson where we did.
We thought it was a little bit -- wasn't quite in the center of the oil window but close to the center of the oil window.
It was offset by some of the best control that we had so we could land the lateral and we were going to hit the lateral.
Again we don't have 3D out here so -- but we had a lot of wells that are drilled because they're on top of the structure.
We've had a lot of wells that are drilled in Smackover that we could go off of.
And then the thought was we move into Louisiana stay in the oil window and just get a distance away near another well that had been tested before.
And that was what we did at the second well.
The third and the fourth wells are similar to that.
We'll be offsetting our near wells that have been drilled in the past but spacing ourselves out just to start seeing the rock characteristics but for the most part staying within what we think is the obvious oil window.
And then when we originally put the program together for a total of 10 wells the 6 wells after that the 2 things we were going to do is start driving costs down on the well themselves.
Those first 4 are going to be a lot of science but then we're going to lessen the science as went through the other ones.
And we're going to start pushing the boundaries of the oil window either up dip or down dip.
Up dip as you get towards immature oil and down dip as you get towards the gas part of it.
That's all going to change.
And really even our fourth well today is in limbo exactly where it's going to go.
And the reason it's changing is that the industry is also drilling wells.
So to the extent that one of those wells we were going to drill somewhere in our sequence are close to one of the industry wells we're busily making agreements with the industry to trade information.
So I can tell you the first 3 are still under that same logic that we had.
But from 4 on we're revising it as we see other information come in.
And how many wells do you think the company will now drill this year in the Lower Smackover Brown Dense? I think what we have in the budget right now is 5 wells.
5 wells drilled this year a total of 6 wells.
But we'll drill what we need to drill.
And so if the industry gets some more wells down and we could learn the answer without having to drill as many fine.
If we need to drill some more we'll do that.
And we'll just adjust our budget to where it goes.
But right now 6 total is what we're thinking about.
One follow-on if I may.
When you expressed that the oil shows in the second well was actually turning into oil in the pits how much better I guess is the porosity and permeability associated with that statement compared to the statement that we just saw fluorescents in the first well? Can we see quantity through that lens if you will that you've offered us? I think you can start getting indications of quality.
As you know shows have a lot of variables with them: what your mud weight was what the kind of muds you're using and how fast you're drilling.
So there's all kinds of things that go into that.
But the second well drilled much faster was basically the same mud in the first well.
That tells you that there was a different rock there and then probably had more porosity and permeability in it.
And we did see more oil.
So it tends to indicate more permeability.
And when I asked our guys that exact same question and pressed them on it they said "Well it looks about 5x better than that lower zone in the first well." Now that's all relative.
Is it 5x better 8x better or 3x better? It's just better.
You don't have enough information to know.
And we don't have the ability to get chips and -- like you do in conventional you'd be able to get some chips from downhole and you'd be able to look at it and compare it.
In our case with the way we're drilling it's very difficult to get chips.
But you have to send it to a lab to even look at the porosity or permeability that's in it.
So we've got a core.
The core is being analyzed right now and soon we'll know the difference.
But it's all relative at this point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Recognizing the data you're working with is limited and that it's early innings how does the Brown Dense rank versus the new DJ Basin venture and anything else in the New Ventures portfolio at least in terms of resource potential and what's economically recoverable? I can certainly compare the Colorado and Brown Dense.
In the case of Colorado you have had commercial production from that interval at least in the immediate vicinity of where you're at.
And it doesn't have as many tests in the area.
There's only 4 wells within the area we're buying acreage that have gone into that zone.
But it did have shows and those kinds of things on it.
But since you have commercial production I think the real issue in Colorado is the variability of the rock and can you get consistent commercial production? In the case of the Brown Dense Brown Dense is much bigger.
We've got 238 000 acres in Colorado and that will grow some but it will be in the 250 260 range.
In the case of Brown Dense you've got over 500 000 acres in roughly the same thickness objective interval.
They're spaced out differently but roughly the same.
So the Brown Dense has a lot more in place to go after but it's going to take a lot more to figure it out too because it's a bigger area.
So going into the Brown Dense we had really 3 big issues: How to drill.
When you frac will you get into the water that's above it? You don't have that problem in Colorado.
And then can we make it commercial? We know we can drill it now.
The second well drilled much much faster.
Third well we're blowing that one down.
We're getting the pace done.
We think we know where to land in the Brown Dense but we still have to figure out commercial there.
So that's kind of the differences.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on the Brown Dense itself and specifically the Union Parish well.
How does the rock change moving west to east? How does the risk profile change that is? And how will that well be completed? Will it be completed any differently than the first 2? We're still looking exactly on how the well is frac-ed.
But basically it will be completed the same.
It'll just have more fracture stages because it's a longer lateral.
And the third well by the way we're going to try and do that.
That's in Louisiana also.
That's going to be a 9 000-foot lateral so that's even going to have more stages in it.
But right now we'll frac them basically the same with just minor variations just to see the differences.
So we can really tell the difference in what's going on with the rock not the difference in how we're frac-ing them to start with here.
As far as the way it looks in the rock it's a little bit thicker as you go to the east.
So it's probably 75 to 100 foot thicker in general in our second well than in the first well.
And again that first well was over 350-foot thick.
So it's a very thick interval.
When you look at a log that's drilled through it there's distinct log characteristics that we're trying -- we think we figured now that shows the better-porosity rock versus the tighter rock.
And we're in the early stages of understanding this.
So I want to emphasize that we think we're getting to understand it.
But if we're understanding it right certainly the logs are about 2x as thick for the good interval in the second well than they are for the first one.
But again second well we've got a core in and analyzing right now.
First well we haven't got all the permeabilities back on it so we still got some things to look at before I can pound the table and say it's definitely getting better in one direction or another.
We do know if you go far west if you go over towards the Louisiana/Texas line you're getting deeper.
The rock is higher temperature more cooked and you get into gas.
So in general the oil window is going to swing around from the Arkansas down into the Louisiana in general.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up question from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Either -- Steve you mentioned about investing in some pressure pumping.
What are the plans there? I mean how much horsepower are you looking to add? And what's the CapEx on that spend this year? We will basically do 2 frac spreads.
And I don't know it off the top of my head the exact horsepower.
Total investment will be probably about $65 million for the 2 frac spreads.
And we'll have them operational hopefully in November time frame of this year.
So it's really a cost saving for next year.
As far as the capital budget in the original capital budget we had put $50 million in thinking the frac spreads would be done in early 2013.
We count it as capital.
In this one with reduction of the $200 million we've taken it completely out and we're going to finance that through leasing.
So it's not a capital item right now as the way the budget sits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so it's not on your budget.
It's a leaseback.
Correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk about the Fayetteville recovery now? So are you running 11 rigs now and there has been plans to drop one? And then is 2 others coming off? Can you kind of give us the timing of that? Or tell me if I got that right? We're working on that.
There's 11 today.
One will drop in the next week or 2.
Then what I think you'll see between now and sometime in July we'll drop 3 more at least and possibly 4 more rigs.
I say 3 more -- 3 more from the 10 going down to 7 4 total rigs from where we're at today.
And we're still trying to get the finals on that so we may run one rig a little bit longer as we look at it.
But that's roughly what we're going to do: exit the year running 7 big rigs in the Fayetteville Shale.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would production at Fayetteville grow at that point? Or would it be fairly flat? It will grow through this year.
If you continue running 7 rigs into the future it flattens out pretty fast.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research.
The fourth well I thought was back up in Arkansas.
Was that the case? Or...
That's the way it has been planned.
Yes.
And the follow-on would be if the...
And let me add one thing in there Bob.
On the fourth well originally it was planned to be very close to our Cabot just recently drilled well.
So as long as we can get information from Cabot if it's in Arkansas it won't be where we originally planned it.
I can tell you that.
So we're still looking at that.
All right.
And if the formation thickens up enough as you go further to the east would it ever make sense to maybe drill just a vertical well and fracture stimulate that first as opposed to going horizontal from the get-go? Yes we don't think that that will work.
But we need to get some confirmation back.
I won't say you'd never do it that way but when you just look at the advantages -- in that second well it took us about 14 days to drill that 6 600-foot lateral that's out there.
I know we can decrease that time.
And if you're down at 10 000 feet you might as well take the few days extra it takes to drill the lateral and then add the fracs and get the added advantage to that.
But we'll certainly look at it just like we'd look in Colorado which is the best way to do it vertical or horizontal? So the second well what was the total time to drill? Because you're in vertical for -- on that? Roughly 50 days give or take.
I don't remember if it's 50 53 something like that.
50 days all in for the second well.
And what's the rough cost on the difference between the first well and the second well would you estimate? I mean is it a big step up or about the same? The first -- all of these wells -- the first 4 that are going to do the core and all the science would be above $10 million.
The first well we actually got out -- I don't remember if it was quite 2 000 feet -- and wasn't where we wanted it to be.
It had some problems with the well and backed up and rigged it to sidetrack.
So that first well is probably $2 million -- $1.5 million to $2 million higher than the second well just on redrilling the lateral.
But ultimately we think we can get these down in the $7 million to $8 million range is what we're shooting for.
Do you think the second well is going to be more costly than the first well? No no.
So even some will be cheaper than the first well by about $2 million at least.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Gil Yang with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Steve you mentioned that you're going to drill I think a couple of stratigraphic vertical tests in New Brunswick.
Can you just comment on sort of what you're looking for in those kinds of wells what we should expect you to learn from those wells? Sure.
In New Brunswick we need to get this other seismic shot.
But if you think about the sequence we've done we think we've found a new basin.
We did a bunch of work to prove it was there.
We shot seismic -- maybe a little bit more seismic done to the east that we didn't get done in 2011.
And the whole idea was to identify where the basin deeps were where the -- if you spot any highs and then pick a couple of wells.
They could tell you actually what's in the basin.
At this point in time you've got rock that comes to the surface north of where the basin's at.
You've got a basin to the south that's got some wells in it.
But these basins have no wells whatsoever.
So at least one of those stratigraphic tests will be in one of the deepest parts in one of those basins.
You just drill right through the whole interval to try and figure out what's there.
Is the shale -- further [ph] scored shale there or not? Is there any conventional targets that are possibly there? So you just look at the section.
The second well depending on exactly where you're at may have some other target to it where you've seen something on the seismic that you want to investigate.
But both of them basically are just trying to figure out what the section looks like so you can tie in more data.
So later you can then come back and actually drill wells that would have hydrocarbons as the objectives.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's basically to provide the subsurface data that ties you to the different horizons you're seeing on the seismic? Right right.
And then just to give you an example while you see events on the seismic you're just guessing at what the velocity is or what the depth is because you haven't got any data to tie it to.
You're just -- and the nearest data is 60 70 miles away.
So that first well will just let you tie that in.
It will let you figure out how to redefine your gravity and magnetic situ work on the basin.
So you'll get that information redefine everything again and then you'll actually start drilling for true objectives.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And another follow-up.
I think in your previous budget you'd set it at $4 a gas and you were very good in giving sort of the guidance based on -- sensitivity based on different commodity price assumptions.
And it looks like the current budget based on that is -- announced spend of maybe $400 million $500 million based on $3 a gas.
Is that a fair assumption as to what you're pricing in in this budget? It's in that range.
I don't know if it's quite to the $500 million range but it's in that range.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But the base assumption is you're sort of assuming $3 gas? Yes.
Our next question is a follow-up question from Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Just one quick follow-up.
You mentioned that you had taken $65 million out of the budget for spending on the pressure pumping equipment.
Which bucket did that come out of? It doesn't look like there was an obvious drop in midstream or other.
Just curious where that might have shown up prior.
That was actually in the Fayetteville Shale.
And it was about $50 million.
Again we thought we weren't going to get the equipment till early next year.
Now we're much more comfortable we'll get the equipment this year.
So $60 million was -- total of $50 million was actually in our budget.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you.
We've had a lot of discussion today about the Brown Dense.
I had some discussion about Colorado.
But what I want to leave you with is we're very proud of what happened in 2011 and we especially want to thank all of our employees who have done a great job.
When you think about the Fayetteville and Marcellus I wouldn't want any other assets in today's price environment.
We know we can overcome the challenges of those assets as we look out into 2012 and even as we look out into 2013.
We know we can deliver for shareholders in those events.
And then we're really excited about 2012.
Brown Dense first well a lot of questions answered.
A lot of questions asked.
We're getting ready to drill in Colorado.
I'm sure that will be the exact same thing where those first few wells will be asking as many questions as we answer them.
But these are quality plays and they're the kind of things to expect from us as we look out into the future.
We've got New Brunswick coming up and then we're still working on some other projects.
There's still some other acreage we haven't talked about out there.
So we're really excited about 2012.
This is a year for us to thrive.
This is a year irrespective of what gas price is doing irrespective of what the oil price is doing irrespective to costs that we think we can deliver for shareholders and we're just looking forward to updating you in the future on that.
So thank you and this concludes the conference.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy First Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Steve Mueller President and CEO.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mueller you may begin.
Thank you.
And good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you've not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our first quarter 2012 results you can find a copy on our website at www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the risk factors and the forward-looking statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Let's begin.
We had a good quarter.
Production grew 16% costs remained low our balance sheet was strengthened and we have improving results in our Brown Dense play in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana.
Stopping at that summary -- stopping that summary at that point to acknowledge the elephant in the room: the gas price clouds casting dark shadows over our entire gas industry investments.
We continue to respond to the current prices.
Only the best economic wells are being drilled in the Fayetteville Shale project and we have continued to add firm capacity in the Marcellus to ensure getting the gas to the most liquid points of sales.
In addition we have revisited our capital budget again and are moving at least $50 million from our development activities in midstream to accelerate drilling and leasing in our New Ventures projects.
Our goal is to understand the potential for both the Brown Dense and Colorado plays by year end.
Our simple machine continues to perform and we're excited about how 2012 is unfolding.
Moving to our operating areas.
We placed 146 operated wells on production on the Fayetteville Shale during the first quarter.
After announcing these plays -- this play almost 8 years ago we surpassed the milestone of 2 Bcf a day gross operated production in April and on May 2 we surpassed the milestone of cumulative gross production from the play of 2 Tcf of natural gas.
My heartfelt thanks and admiration go out to many of the -- to the many employees of Southwestern Energy who over the years have made and continue to make this possible.
Our operated horizontal wells had an average initial production rate of 3.3 million cubic foot per day and average completed well costs of $2.8 million per well with an average drilling time of 7.3 days during the quarter.
We are -- we placed -- we also placed 26 wells on production during the quarter that were drilled in 5 days or less.
Looking ahead we will continue to target the best wells in the field and expect our initial producing rates will increase over the next several quarters as we continue to high-grade our drilling program in the Fayetteville Shale.
Also in April we placed the initial orders for 2 fracture stimulation spreads that will be operated by the new subsidiary called SWN Well Services.
Delivery date is expected in the fourth quarter and initially the equipment will work in the Fayetteville Shale.
Each crew will be able to frac between 100 and 120 wells per year and savings of approximately $200 000 per well are expected on the wells frac-ed with SWN's equipment.
In Pennsylvania we have 24 operated Marcellus Shale wells located in Bradford County that are producing and net production from the area was 9.3 Bcf in the first quarter of 2012 which is up from 2.8 Bcf in the first quarter of 2011.
Gross operated production was approximately 122 million cubic feet of gas per day at March 31.
We also began selling gas from our Price area in Susquehanna County earlier this week.
Our first well the North Price #5H was put to sale on Tuesday and everything looks very encouraging.
The rate yesterday was 3.9 million cubic foot per day on a 16/64" choke with 3 000 pounds flowing pressure and 3 300 pounds casing pressure.
The casing pressure is indicative of very little drawdown at these rates so we will proceed with opening the well up slowly over the next few weeks.
Now that this line is in place we will begin to see other wells in the area placed on production throughout the rest of the year.
In April we entered into a new 15-year firm transportation agreement on the Constitution Pipeline with a total capacity scaling up to 150 million cubic foot per day.
This project is expected to be in service by the second quarter of 2015.
With this announcement we currently have firm transportation and sales agreements in place for 325 million cubic foot per day at the end of this year 2012; 517 million cubic foot per day by the end of 2013; 557 million cubic foot per day by the end of 2014; and 770 million cubic foot by the end of 2015.
Finally the Bluestone pipeline is progressing well and we believe the north end of the line which will transport gas from our Range Trust area in Susquehanna County will now be in service no later than September of this year.
The southern end of the pipeline is on scale -- on schedule to transport gas from our Price area in November.
In our Ark-La-Tex division we produced 8.2 Bcfe during the first quarter and earlier this week we closed on the sale of the oil and natural gas leases wells and gathering equipment in our Overton Field in East Texas for approximately $175 million.
The proceeds from this sale will be used to facilitate potential like-kind exchange transactions pursuant to Section 1031 of the IRS code.
We incorporated the sale of Overton into our production guidance back in February so we continue to guide total SWN production of 560 to 570 Bcfe for 2012.
As for our New Ventures we hold approximately 3.6 million net undeveloped acres of which 2.5 million net acres are located in New Brunswick Canada.
In our Lower Smackover Brown Dense play in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana we hold leases on 540 000 net acres and have drilled 3 wells in the area.
Our first well the Roberson located in Columbia County Arkansas was placed on production in February and its highest producing rate was 103 barrels a day of 36-degree API gravity oil with 200 Mcf per day of gas.
The well has been shut in for pressure buildup testing in March and we continue to perform testing on the well which includes re-completing one stage in the heel of the well with acid last week.
Our second well the Garrett located in Claiborne Parish Louisiana was placed on production in late March and is the highest-producing -- and its highest producing rate was 301 barrels of 52 API gravity oil with 7 -- 1.7 million cubic foot per day of gas and 2 200 barrels of flowback water.
Approximately 55% of the frac's fluid has been recovered to date.
All the production to date has been through casing.
We finished running tubing in the well yesterday and we'll open the well back up this morning and believe that the production will continue to increase until fluid recovery reaches somewhere around 65% of total.
This should happen somewhere towards the end of May.
Our third well the BML located in Union Parish Louisiana was drilling down to the curve in late March when we received a pressure kick which resulted in sticking the pipe.
We then sidetracked the well and are currently drilling over 4 000 feet in the lateral.
In our first attempt we were drilling with 11.4 pounds per gallon mud and during the kick it increased the mud weight to 15.6 pounds per gallon.
Data indicates the kick was an oil kick.
The sidetrack is drilling with an average mud weight of 15.4 pounds per gallon.
Well fracture-stimulate this well with approximately 30 stages later this month.
As I mentioned earlier we want to accelerate testing the Brown Dense so we have decided to shift some capital away from our other operating areas.
And currently we are evaluating adding another rig to the area sometime in the third quarter of 2012.
We also hold 264 000 acres up from 238 000 at year end in the DJ Basin in Eastern Colorado where we began testing our new unconventional oil play targeting middle- and late-Permian to Pennsylvanian carbonates and shales.
In April we spud our first well in Adams County Colorado and has reached total depth of 9 543 feet in its current logging.
We have already taken 90 feet of core.
And once the vertical well is logged and evaluated we plan to drill a 2 000-foot lateral which will land in the Marmaton formation.
The rig will next move and drill the Staner 5-58 1-8 located in Arapahoe County to a total vertical depth of approximately 9 000 feet.
In closing we continue to invest in quality projects and innovate both in ways to develop new ways to drive down cost and find new opportunities to invest in.
We've done this in the past and we'll continue doing this in the future.
Our Brown Dense and Colorado plays are just additional steps in that innovation process.
I will now turn it over to Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Steve.
And good morning.
We reported earnings for the first quarter of $108 million or $0.31 a share down from $137 million or $0.39 a share in the first quarter of 2011 as lower gas prices offset the positive effects of our production growth.
Our discretionary cash flow was $371 million in the first quarter compared to $392 million for the same period in 2001 (sic) [2011] and reflected our strong hedge position in 2012.
Our average realized gas price of $3.49 per Mcf was down 15% from the same period last year while year-over-year spot gas prices were down approximately 39%.
Our realized gas price including gains from our commodity hedging activities which increased our average price of $1.25 per Mcf during the first quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we have 200 Bcf of our gas production hedged at a weighted average floor price of $5.16 per Mcf.
Our commodity hedge position along with cash flow generated by our Midstream Services business which is not dependent on gas price provides us the solid protection on approximately 2/3 of our expected cash flow for 2012.
Operating income for our E&amp;P segment was $116 million during the quarter compared to $178 million in the same period last year.
Our cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in the industry with all-in cash operating costs of $1.31 per Mcf in the first quarter which included approximately $0.04 per Mcf related to onetime catch-up expenses primarily related to the new Pennsylvania well impact fee.
Those costs include our LOE taxes G&amp;A and interest expense.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment continues its strong growth as it increased by 29% in the first quarter to $69 million.
The increase in operating income was primarily due to the increases in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus Shale plays.
And at March 31 our midstream segment was gathering approximately 2.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day through 1 800 miles of gathering lines in the Fayetteville Shale play compared to gathering approximately 1.9 billion cubic feet per day a year ago.
Our planned total capital investment program for 2012 of $2.1 billion is front-end loaded in the first 2 quarters.
So in the current price environment we would expect to decline our capital investments during the third and fourth quarters of the year along with a heavier weighting towards testing of our New Ventures oil plays.
In March we privately placed $1 billion of 10-year senior notes at an average interest rate of 4.1% further strengthening our balance sheet and our liquidity.
With this placement we currently have nothing drawn on our unsecured $1.5 billion credit facility and had cash on hands at the end of the quarter around $200 million.
And on May 1 we closed on the sale of our Overton properties for approximately $175 million further strengthening our liquidity.
Our capital structure continues to be in great shape with a net debt to booked capital ratio of 25% on par with where we were at the end of 2011.
And our net debt to market capitalization ratio is a low 13%.
Looking ahead we will continue to respond to current gas prices and are focused on reducing our costs even further and are keeping our balance sheet in good shape.
That concludes my comments.
And now we'll turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Brian Lively of Tudor Pickering and Holt (sic) [Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.].
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> The Fayetteville 30- and 60-day rates for the wells drilled in the first quarter seem to be a little bit lower than prior periods.
Was there any like surface reasons for that? Or do you think that that will be the trend that we see going forward? There weren't any surface issues.
You've got to remember that if you think about what we did up until mid-last year for the most part we're drilling 1 and 2 wells per section.
And then towards the second half of the year were doing all pad work.
And so I think what you're seeing is that -- the fact that you're drilling on much tighter spacing and a little bit of interference between wells.
We've talked about this in the past that all the curves we've shown -- as you look out in the future whatever lateral length we average you can take about 10% off of that.
And you won't see it so much in the IPs but you'll start seeing it in the 60 days.
So I think that's what you're seeing.
Now as you look out into 2012 it's going to be confusing.
And by that I mean because we've gone back almost to drilling only a few wells off a pad and drilling the very best and we've also gone to widening the spacing to make sure we've got the best wells that we can possibly drill you're going to see the IPs 30s and 60s potentially set records before the end of the year.
And what that is is nothing more than our strategy to drill the very best wells.
So I don't -- I think you're just seeing a little bit of what would have been the normal trend with the 30 and 60 days you're seeing now.
And it's going to get actually better but a little bit out of whack as we go through the rest of the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's understandable.
Then on the Brown Dense just kind of 2 general questions there.
One what are the current well costs? And what are you trying to get to? And then secondly from the pressure build-up work that you're doing just interested to see what kind of data you're trying to glean from that what kind of reservoir information do you think you can obtain from the well considering it had low rates and probably low cumulative production before you shut it in? And I'll hang up.
Thank you.
As far as the well costs go we've always talked about the first 4 wells for sure will be science wells.
And by science wells we're coring we're drilling the vertical we're doing a lot of extra logging.
And because of that there easily $2 million of excess capital that we don't think will be a run rate.
So a -- the first part of the question was what's the costs of the wells now? They're running somewhere in the mid-$10 million to $12 million depending on the exact depth and lateral length.
We think we can get that well under $10 million and we talked about in the past getting it down to $8 million.
I'm not 100% sure we can do that today.
And the reason I say that this most recent well we drilled has some higher mud weights in it which means you have to run another stream of pipes.
So if we have some higher mud weights in part of the play they'll have to be a little bit higher costs from that standpoint.
And on the pressure you'll see us do this on all of these science wells.
One of the keys to evaluating the reservoir is understanding what that initial bottom-hole pressure is.
And so this first well once we got it cleaned up reasonably we wanted to get the bottom-hole pressure on it.
You will probably see us on the second well at some point in time in the future shut-in and do bottom-hole pressure.
And that's just a key piece of information out -- there's all the [ph] other science.
There's nothing more to it than that.
Our next question is coming from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve can you give us some additional color on your thought process behind bringing in a second rig in Brown Dense? Is it because there's fewer third-party wells planned and you think there has to be more Southwestern wells to delineate this play within a reasonable time frame? Or is it really the data points that you're seeing giving you more encouragement? Well I don't know about the more encouragement part.
We are encouraged and we continue to be encouraged.
The -- there's a minor amount of -- and just you have to get a lot of information and depending on how much the industry gets you makes a difference on how you drill.
I think the major reason though if you think about what we did in the first 3 wells we started up in what we knew was going to be a heavier-gravity oil 30 36 gravity that would be good oil but then we went deeper and deeper with the second and third wells.
And new gas should be higher because you're getting higher temperatures and we wanted to see if the rock would stay the same and what the right gravity window would be to get the best production.
What's actually happened is second well you see a higher gravity you see a higher gas rate.
And the third well has surprised us in that it's much higher pressures than we expected.
And so as we look out it may not be as simple as just you've got this gradient going north south and picking the best spot within the gradient.
And so we decided we want to learn faster and to learn faster you're going to have to drill faster.
So that's the main reason for what we're doing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so with this higher-pressure area that you're seeing with the third well do you have information to know at this point if that's something isolated or if that covers a wider area? And can you give us some color on the additional leasing that you're doing now? Is that -- is the play moving to the east? As far as the pressure goes there's been now almost 35 or 36 wells total drilled into or through the Brown Dense over the years.
And that 15.6 that we saw or had to kill that well with -- it was the highest anyone has ever seen.
There has been 1 or 2 other wells that have been in a 13-pound-mud range but most of them we've been able to drill through with 12.
So I have no idea how big an area it is because we just -- from everything we saw we really didn't expect to see that.
I don't remember what your second part of your question was.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering where you were leasing...
I would say most of that leasing that we've done is clean-up work.
We're -- if you've followed us since the time we announced the play we've added about 20 000 acres a quarter.
And all that was was from 6 months before we had signed an agreement and someone finally got all title work done and handed them the check and then counted it as leases.
I would expect for the next couple of quarters you'll see that happen.
But I can tell you there's not any certain area we're concentrating on.
We're still picking up and cleaning up across the whole 540 000 acres.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
Did you get a Btu measurement on the last well on the gas? On the second well? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
It was roughly 1 250 BTU.
Our next question is coming from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Marcellus can you add some geographic color on your wells that you've completed so far with greater than 12 stages how you're thinking about where you're drilling within your acreage going forward and then how gas price dependent your overall rig count plans are for the Marcellus? I think -- I'll start with the gas price dependency.
As long as you look at the forward curves that we have out there we're happy with the plan that we've put together in the Marcellus where we were going to go from basically 2 rigs running today to later this year running 4 rigs.
Most of the drilling in the first quarter was in Susquehanna County.
And as I said in my remarks in the southern part of Susquehanna County that's what we call the Price area we've put our first well on production and that was a line that our midstream company laid down to the Tennessee gas line and it's going that direction to go out.
We have -- and I don't remember the exact number.
I believe we have 3 other wells in that area right now that are at TD and are in some stage of completion.
And then we have a rig drilling in the Range area which is the Northern Susquehanna block and that's in preparation for that BTU line.
It's later this year.
We have just in the last week or so frac-ed a well up there and begun a little bit of testing but you won't be seeing any sales out for a while.
So what we've been doing most of this quarter is getting ready for these pipelines to be put in the next couple of quarters.
You will see during the year some wells being drilled back in Bradshaw -- Bradford County in the -- what we call the Greenzweig area.
We still think for the year we'll drill about 75 total wells.
Susquehanna will end up with about 44.
Bradford County will have somewhere around 19.
And then you'll see the first rig that comes out this summer is that third rig moving to Lycoming County area and we're looking at 10 to 12 wells in Lycoming County.
So that will be the next place we move to that we'll start getting some information on.
In that area there is a Penn Virginia line that we have signed to get gas out of.
We have also signed with them to get water so it's just a matter of getting the rig there and starting to do the drilling.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly in your decision to add the second rig the Brown Dense where do you plan to position that geographically relative to where your first rig would have been drilling or is drilling? Well right now we're permitting at least 4 additional locations and we've got one location already permitted on the Arkansas side.
All 4 of the locations we're working on right now are in Louisiana.
I know some of them are barely in Louisiana.
But that rig if we decide we need to put it to work here it'd be something around September October time frame.
It would be whatever is next up on our list to drill.
Each well that we drill we try and learn from the one that's one before that and so right now we're permitting enough wells so we can test several different things.
Our next question is coming from Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On that third Smackover well just to needle into it a little bit more.
You said you had a surprising kick.
It seemed to be more of an oil kick.
And can you give us a little bit more color on that? I mean is it something you're -- geologically you're seeing as a little bit different or interesting that it could be encouraging? I don't know about the encouraging part.
Certainly having the oil and knowing you have some oil in there is encouraging.
And I can give you a little more color: We drilled the well vertically.
We did not take a hole core in this well.
We actually took some rotary cores and we've looked into rotary cores and it looks like there's some fairly good frosting [ph] and permeability at least comparable to some of the other good frosting [ph] and permeability seen in some of the hole cores.
When we were drilling this well as we're in the horizontal or just about to get to the horizontal portion we did take this kick.
The reason we think it's an oil kick is that while we were drilling with oil-based mud we saw some gas increase but our ratio of oil in our mud increased significantly.
And the way an oil kick acts -- or a liquid kick acts differently than a gas kick and it certainly worked out of the system like an oil kick.
So that's the evidence for having the oil portion.
We're drilling right now.
While we've been drilling roughly 15.4 pounds per gallon we have lightened the mud weight up one time to see if that was just a fluke or if there was in the sidetrack if we had the same thing.
And when we lightened the mud weight up a little bit it wanted to start flowing and so we went right back to that 15.4 pounds per gallon.
So how big an area it is what it means all I can say is higher pressure usually is better because you can lift more fluids faster.
And we think we've got some oil in it but we're just going to have to get the well to TD and then figure out if it's just a single fracture or a couple of fractures giving us the pressure or is it something different about the geology when we go down there.
Again from -- if you just look at logs or the little bit of core data we have it's thicker.
They're -- it has some good frosting [ph] and permeability in it but there's nothing that just grabs you and says this ought to be significantly different than anything else we've done in the past.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the second well why is it taking so much to get the water load off? 48 days to hit the peak.
Is there a reason for that? I mean can you -- is it a pressure issue? Is it -- can you give us some sense of why that is? Well we've been very careful with how we flow the oil back in both the first and second wells and so part of it has to do with just how we're doing it.
We're not opening the chokes up very fast as we're going through.
And we're just slowly letting it work its way up.
And part of that is to understand how it's going to produce.
Part of it is to understand something about the pressure characteristics on it.
When we do modeling in any of these horizontal wells the first oil the first gas you get back is the part of the lateral closest to the vertical and then the very toe-end of the wells is the last part you get back.
When we do the modeling as it sits today we think the last couple of stages aren't even contributing yet at all to the oil rates.
We haven't even got near enough water off them.
And that's why we said that we need to get more of the percent back.
But the reason it's taking a period of time is we're taking the time.
It's not necessarily we would -- probably could have opened it up and got back faster but we still think we need over 60% back.
Our next question is coming from Dave Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly back to the Fayetteville just for a second.
In the past you'd highlighted: at $4 you had about 8 000 locations; $3 kind of 1 100 to 1 200 locations.
Given the current price environment let's just use $2.50 how many locations would that represent at this point? If you said it was $2.50 flat forever not many.
And I don't know what it is.
It's maybe 200.
But if you think about how you make decisions on wells it's really the first 4 years to 5 years that count.
And when you look at the average for the next 3 to 4 years its a forward curve it certainly has a lot more wells than just the few hundred we're talking about.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe flipping over from that then to the rig count in the Fayetteville.
You've been bringing that down and obviously that's kind of what's influenced the change in CapEx.
But as you look forward how low can you take that at this point? And whats sort of the contract obligations that you have on any of those rigs? We really don't have any contract obligations on the rigs.
All the rigs that we're using are our rigs and so we can lay those down when we want to lay those down.
One of the rigs -- if you remember we started the year -- the first day of the year there were 12 rigs.
Soon after that first year we dropped down to 11.
Today we've got 8 and we'd always talked about exiting the year with 7.
We actually dropped down to 8 a little bit faster.
That's where part of this $50 million is coming from.
And some of that is that we're drilling a little faster than we thought we were going to be.
So we're getting -- we think we'll get still when it's all done the 400-plus wells but we may drop the rigs a little bit faster.
Kind of a side note: One of the rigs we dropped recently is actually working for the first time for a third party.
And so to the extent that we can put those to work in third party you may see some of that.
We'll -- we've got one rig that's moving up to Pennsylvania to do some work up there also.
So they'll continue to move around.
As far as any of the other services we supply our own sand so we can go at any pace we want to do there.
On the frac side on stimulation while we have one-year deals it's a percent of business.
It's not a guaranteed business there so whatever number of wells we drill and give to that -- whatever that group is that has it that's what happens.
So you can scale down as much as you want to.
Our next question is coming from Arun Jayaram of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes Steve I wanted to elaborate a little bit on the Marcellus.
I know your gross operating production was down sequentially but I think thats just a function of the fact that you're only able to put 2 wells under production.
It looks like your backlog of wells that haven't been tied in is up to 70.
Can you just maybe give us a roadmap given the infrastructure or pipelines that will be added how production in the Marcellus could shape up? Because you do have a lot of wells waiting on infrastructure.
Right.
And we've talked about this in the past that the first quarter we didn't have much activity that's going to happen that would add to our takeaway capacity.
Back in the say November-December time frame we were hoping to have an additional compressor put on in our Greenzweig area in the first quarter.
Those permits took a lot longer to get than we thought.
As a matter of fact it took us almost 18 months to get the permits.
And we haven't got the final final one yet.
But as you think about it we just tied in a pipeline today which is right up -- or it was last week it was within a week of being on schedule to tie us to 10C [ph] gas to help us with price.
You'll start seeing those wells be completed and put on.
That compressor I'm talking about is set to go in in June and that will allow us -- when you start talking about the 24 wells that are on production about 1/2 of those are flowing into basically the pipeline pressure of 1 100 pounds and the other 1/2 of that is on compressor at any point in time.
That will allow us to put more of those in compression and start getting some more gas out that direction.
And then the next big data point or big takeaway point is that early-September middle-of-September point on the Bluestone line where we can start taking gas out of the Range area -- and ultimately the takeaway on that Bluestone line is 200 million a day just on that line either going to Millennium or the Tennessee Gas.
You won't get that immediately.
It will take you 20 to 30 days to get the line smoothed out.
But you'll see us very rapidly start adding production going into the end of the year.
So we talked about in the past that we'd exit the year in the 300 million a day range and we're very comfortable that will happen.
And we're very comfortable that we can hit our guidance for a total company as well in production.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So you're just a slower start but you're still on track for the 300 million a day rate Yes yes.
We're on one schedule.
And like I said the first quarter wasn't going to have much.
We knew during the first quarter and we always talked about in the second quarter we could jump it up to about 150 million a day.
We're maybe a month behind on that but we'll catch it up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve just switching gears back to the Brown Dense.
The Cabot well I think your well was about 3.5 miles southwest of their well.
And I think their rate was just around 200 206 barrels.
Any learnings from that well that you could speak to if youre sharing data? Yes we have been sharing some data.
I don't have as much information on that well as we do on ours.
I think they landed it similar to us.
And of course it was a shorter lateral.
It was something less than 4 000 feet or right around 4 000 feet.
Our second well was about 6 500 feet.
And then when you get into the fracs I don't think they've put the frac stages quite the same -- or the perforation there was quite the same as us.
But in general I think they were similar in how they drilled and the rock they were drilled into.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question.
Steve on the last call you mentioned that the permeability between the lower and upper zones could be about 5x -- there could be a 5x difference there.
Any comments on the most recent wells? And any H2S you've seen in this -- the most recent well? We haven't seen hardly any H2S at all.
Actually we saw less H2S in this well than we did in the first well.
We saw a couple of days where it spiked a little bit and then didnt see any in the first well.
This one we haven't seen hardly at all.
There is a trace and when I say trace it's just a touch of CO2 at times in this well.
As far as permeability goes I haven't actually -- no one's actually seen it.
We haven't got the actual perms calculated from the lab yet on the core in the second well.
When we look at fluorescence the first well in the upper half actually had better fluorescence than the second well did in the upper half of that.
And sometimes fluorescence tie -- you can tie it to permeability.
Sometimes it just has to do with the fluids and what's in the rock as well.
But we're still trying to sort that out.
I really don't have a good answer for you.
When you look at logs in the second well the top half is better than the bottom half just like I described before.
But we've got to tie those logs into the core data and we just don't have that data in yet.
Our next question is coming from Amir Arif of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve can you just give us a sense of how many wells by year end will we have drilled and how many will you have tested in the Brown Dense as well as in the DJ? That's going to be fluid.
You can drill a well in either one of those the next well and decide there was some critical factor that didn't work and it's done.
But assuming that we continue to learn like we have for instance in Brown Dense where we see each well getting a little bit better I would guess that we're going to end up with about 6 to 7 wells this year.
And as I said our goal would be to have that complete understanding by the end of the year so we know if this thing is going to work or not.
Now that can -- that's the goal.
Whether we can get there or not it depends on if the rock is like we think it is and it depends if it flows like we think it's going to flow and those kind of things.
In Colorado the first well we're drilling we're going to land that in the Marmaton which is the very top of the objective section that we're looking at.
The second well we're certainly going to look at the Marmaton area but we think that a deeper interval in the Atoka section may get better there.
And if it gets better then we have to sit back and look at basically is it as good as a Marmaton or is it -- how do they compare and then how do you have to test the 2 or if it's not better the one zone as you go through.
So there are some decisions to be made after the second well in Colorado.
That's why we'll have a short gap.
And then we'll go back to drilling whatever we learn from those first 2 wells.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a second question is just in the Brown Dense.
As you went from the second to the third well your lateral's coming down quite a bit but you're doing a lot more frac stages.
Are you simply trying to get the economics in terms of production per frac stage to make the economics work? Or are you looking for some operational improvements by doing so many fracs? Yes the -- if you remember we originally targeted 9 000-foot lateral in that third well.
And when we took that kick without going into a lot of technical details the shoe that we had was set as fairly deep.
Our casing shoe was set fairly deep.
But it probably wasn't in good enough shape to allow us to drill a well at 15 pounds or higher mud weight so we actually set an extra string of pipe.
Since we hadn't planned for that string of pipe it caused us to drill with a smaller drill string.
And the physical limits of drilling we can't go 9 000 feet anymore.
We can only go about 4 000 feet.
So we're going out as far as we can with the way this well is set up.
Now that won't affect us in the future because we will just plan for it in this area in the future and well go get whatever lateral length we want.
As far as the number of stages we're trying to get some end member tests.
So in a -- as I've talked about it before those first 4 wells are science.
The first couple we frac-ed the exact same way just to see what lateral length would do.
Now this one we were planning to do a 9 000-foot lateral with a bunch of fracs on it.
We were doing 4 000-foot laterals with a bunch of fracs just to start understanding the -- how close you can put the fracs together and what the effect of that is.
So it's just part of the science we've planned.
Our next question is coming from Michael Schmitz of Ladenburg.
Research Division</strong> Steve you mentioned that you didn't think all of the frac stages are contributing yet in the second well.
Can you quantify how many frac stages you think are actually contributing? Well it's just modeling.
We don't have any way of going down at least easily and trying to figure out at this point in time what's contributing from each stage.
At some point we will do that once it's cleaned up.
But when you just look at the models and look at how much fluid you've taken out and the drawdown you've had across there it looks like out of the roughly 20 stages 19 stages that we have that the farthest one out isn't contributing hardly anything yet.
And then it grades but it would be 3 to 4 of those that are still cleaning up in some portion of it.
The fourth closest in probably starting to just start to contribute some oil.
And as I said the farthest one out isn't contributing.
Now the -- one of the things we have to learn as we talk about lateral length is can you actually clean up a well? And so you've got all these models but then is it actually going to clean up the way you think it's going to clean up? And certainly part of the whole design of lateral lengths are you want to have a well to complete a clean-up.
And so part of the 6 000 and part of the 9 000 we're talking about was just understanding with this rock and this environment if you drill the 9 000-foot lateral could you ever even get it cleaned up or if you have to drill 6 000 can you get it cleaned it up.
So that's something we're learning right now.
But 3 to 4 stages are still in some portion of clean-up stage.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up.
On the Fayetteville did you say the -- given the high-grading and drilling the wells wider spacing that you expect both the IPs and 30s and 60-day rates to set records this year in the Fayettevile? They could.
I am not going to go say "expected " but it certainly looks like they could.
Our next question is coming from Robert Christensen of Buckingham Research Group.
I'm curious on the second well as to the frac heights.
I mean on the first well I think they were 100 to 150.
Did you ever get some research on the frac heights on the second well? We really don't have any data on that right now to tell you the truth.
We did not do microseismic on that second well.
So it's really just indications from flowback.
That's all it is right now.
So as I've talked about in the past when we frac-ed it you've got some models that you use for pressures and things as you're frac-ing to see if it's growing the way you think it should grow.
And when we frac-ed it very consistently it worked like the model said it would.
But as far as understanding if you actually got across the entire zone we don't know.
And the reason that's important -- since this is about 400-foot thick in the second well to get 200 foot above and below a well is kind of the limits in most cases for fracs.
So whatever we're doing we're kind of pushing the limits and we'll have to in some future wells to better understand that part Bob.
Coming back to the first well curious as to why you're going to fracture-stimulate what one stage of it...
Yes we're isolating -- I don't know that we'll just do one when it's all done.
We're doing one right now.
But we've isolated some of the frac intervals that we had.
And what we've done -- the closest one to the vertical part of the well was also in the best part of the rock in the first well.
We started with that one.
We've gone into it isolated that put packers around it and then we've actually put some acid on it.
We haven't used any acid in any of the fracs we've done to date.
And we wanted to see 2 things: We wanted to see how that individual zone best-looking rock would flow and also wanted to see what the effect of acid would be on it to help us design our frac intervals.
And I could see -- after we do that depending on our results there you might see us do something else in that first well in some other frac zones.
But were using that first well as a test well to help us set up the other wells down the road.
That's all that's going on there.
And bringing in a second rig what does that hinge upon? Does it hinge upon this third well? Is that the decision point? Or is there another decision point? It hinges on really 2 things: how fast we think we can drill wells and then how much variation do we see.
The mud weight in that third well surprised us.
If we just took as I said the wells around there and the wells in the general vicinity you shouldn't have that higher pressure both from -- if we drill a well say offsetting this one and it's got a super low pressure you're going to have to drill more wells to figure it out.
If it ends up that there's some reason that you can come up with a wider side pressure in one area you can figure out where that is and then understand what the other part of the rock looks like fairly easily you'll get it done faster.
So it's really just depending on if it's acting the way we think it's going to act and it's giving us the things we think it's going to do or is it -- there are some differences that are much greater than we expect and then we need to drill more wells to figure out those differences.
Just one open-ended question Steve if I might.
What elements of encouragement should we have on the Lower Smackover Brown Dense with what knowledge you have today broadly speaking? I'm not sure that we have some points of encouragement at this juncture as a readership crowd.
What could you offer broadly speaking? We're -- if you think about tests that are out there there's 3 tests today.
We've got 2 of them.
You're seeing better production in each one of the tests and you can go into all kinds of reasons why it could or it couldn't be better.
And you're seeing things that don't quite match a model but they're not necessarily bad things yet.
You can find things that don't match the model and just say that it's not going to work at all.
But having higher pressure actually could help seeing that sure enough as you go deeper in the section you do have more gas that can help lift and now you can start worrying about where you'd find a window where you'd have the optimum production.
It gives you encouragement that you can do some other things.
So I think the biggest encouragement I have is we haven't run into anything that's making this thing go back the other direction.
It's still going forward.
And that doesn't mean we're going to get there.
It doesn't mean that it's going to work but we've got a lot of things we can do on it to make it work.
So we continue to be very excited about it.
And where we're at at our 2 wells and Cabot's well in the play right now is ahead of where I thought we'd be frankly.
I thought we'd have more issues and we'd have more question marks.
And we are going down a learning path.
So it just comes back to -- that's the fun of exploration: Every well is a little bit different in how you fracture that in and what you can do next on it.
Our next question is coming from Joe Allman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So Steve are not the production rates somewhat discouraging? I know you just said that you thought they might -- things are ahead of where you thought they'd be but are not the production rates discouraging? And is there anything else that you're seeing that might be discouraging? I'm not sure Id say the production rates are discouraging.
I -- you have to kind of think of where I came from: I wasn't expecting hardly anything out of the first well and the fact that we got something we could work with quickly was very encouraging to me.
And the fact that we added lateral length in a second well and got better rates when we did that and so we -- if nothing else we can continue to add lateral length to at least part of this until some of these other things I've talked about keeps you from getting there.
So I think that continues to have encouragement there.
I don't necessarily think that 300 barrels a day is a discouragement at all.
And we didn't talk about it in the press release but that 300 barrels a day wasn't a single-day rate.
For about 20 days we were very close to that number bouncing around that number.
So we know we can sustain that rate for a while.
Now its can we get a better rate by doing various things that were out there.
As far as discouragement goes and this really isn't discouragement but if there is an area that has higher pressure certainly a higher pressure could help lift fluids out but it will cost more.
So one of the things we have to do on this third well is figure out is it helping with whatever is going on? And then weve talked about in the past we thought in a play we needed about 500 barrels a day on a 30-day average rate to basically make all the economics work.
You may reset that a little bit it depends if there's an area that's pressured.
It may be a little more cost that you have to have and you're going to have to have a little bit more rate.
So it's not so much a discouragement it's just we're going to have to learn.
And this third well will tell us how much different it is than the first or second wells are.
Research Division</strong> Thats helpful.
And then the second well how much higher do you think that could go? Well I don't know.
Maybe 20% higher 10% higher.
I don't know.
60 barrels a day.
30 barrels a day Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just could you clarify the $50 million of more capital? Like what are the differences between the original plan and the new plan that adds $50 million of more capital? Well without going into a lot of details we're taking about $20 million out of the midstream and most of that's in the Fayetteville portion of the midstream.
And whats happened there is as we're high-grading to these very best wells most of those locations are already built.
Most of them have pipelines to them so we don't have to lay some of the pipe we thought we were going to do.
So it's just not doing some work by changing the game plan there.
The other part of that is we moved one rig out a little faster in the Fayetteville than we had planned.
And we'll probably move a second one out.
We'll probably go a little faster getting down to that 7 rigs that we talked about.
And that gets you most of the other.
There's a little bit of corporate capital that comes out of that too.
So we're taking it from areas that are not going to affect production this year.
And then what we're doing is we're applying it back to the New Ventures.
And it's really not -- it won't all go to Brown Dense.
A big chunk of it is going to Brown Dense but there's some things we're trying to pick up some acreage on that we'd want to accelerate a little bit.
And then we'll make some decisions about Colorado.
And really right now we have the 2 wells in Colorado and depending on what we see we'll have some more drilling after that thats not really counter [ph] to anything that we're doing right now.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So will you be drilling more wells in the Brown Dense than you originally planned? Yes.
Or we're assuming we will.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And that assumes bringing the second rig in.
Is that right? Yes.
Our next question is coming from Mike Kelly of Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Following up Steve on your comments earlier that you're being diligent in terms of flowing these Brown Dense wells back if somebody could give the choke size.
And really just kind of give your thoughts if it's even an appropriate exercise for us financial types here to really make a read-through on the ultimate success of one of these wells based on these initial rates.
Yes the -- we slowly opened the choke up.
So we started as low as 16 and I don't know where we're at now but we're probably in the 42-something range something like that on the choke size.
But it -- we just -- we'll go like 4 or 5 days 6 days and we'll kick it up a little bit 4 or 5 days kick it up and watch what happens with both your water and oil rates.
I think kind of your second part help the investors understand what we're doing.
As far as the well goes it's still making quite a bit of water but that water rate has been dropping very rapidly in the last couple of weeks.
And the oil rate as a ratio compared to the water rate has continued incline.
And I know some of our internal discussions have been will this have a lot of formation water? At this point we haven't seen formation water.
So we're still at the point where we're trying to determine what the final mix will be in the second well how much gas will be there and how much oil will be there and what that final water rate will be if there's any water rate.
And so that's all still working.
But just the fact that the water dropped off hard here recently oils in a ratio basis is going up as far as ratio basis says its still cleaning up and we still have more to learn about what the well can do and how it can work overall.
Now having said that the other parts you have to remember it really doesn't matter what choke you started with.
It doesn't matter what the peak rate is.
It's what's the sustained rate you can have to get the target EUR that you have to have.
And frankly we just don't have enough information to be able to understand whether we can or can't do that yet.
So we're just going to have to stay tuned and we're all going to have to watch and were going to probably need about 6 months production on 3 or 4 wells not just a 1.5 months production on one well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my follow-up.
I was hoping you could talk about the competitive environment pertaining to leasing as it stands now on both the Brown Dense and the DJ Basin and if you've seen a noticeable change in the amount of interest coming from operators now looking to get into the play.
You've seen a little bit of increase in the Brown Dense mainly by some fairly small operators that have come in and taken some small blocks.
But there's not been a big push.
And I think part of the reason for that big push is we've got the real big blocks.
So if you want to go put a big push in the Brown Dense you're going to have to kind of work at it hard.
And there may be somebody out there doing it but we just haven't seen it at this point or seen much of it.
On the Colorado play we continue to pick up acreage there really haven't seen much competition.
And I think if anything everyone's waiting for our wells to get down or they're off doing Niobrara and they're not worrying about this play.
So right now both places -- it may be up $25 an acre or something but it's nothing significant.
Our next question is coming from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Steve what -- how much of a decision -- impacted your decision the oil kick in the third well? And did that also made your decision easier to permit the 4 wells that you're talking about? And how close they are to this third well? Well the mud weight and the kick in that third well was a surprise.
So you then go back to the drawing board and try to figure out what you're going to do.
And so the -- certainly the wells we're permitting now were not under our original plan because it's like "Okay is this going to be a large area where there's pressure? Is this a unique thing where there's pressure?" And so you're starting to have to react to what you saw from a surprise basically.
Now how close they are? There are some fairly long step-outs.
They're not all just -- as a matter of fact theyre not right around this well.
I think the nearest one to this is probably 8 to 9 miles away as we look at it because the whole idea here is we don't know what we're going to get out of this well let alone what we'll see in the next wells as we go through.
So you'll kind of see us integrate what we're learning in the third well and some locations we may not have thought about in the past with locations we already had and we're already working on in the past.
So it just -- it evolves as you learn and that's what's happening right now.
Our next question is coming from David Snow of Energy Equities.
I'm just -- I had a couple of macro questions on shale.
You made a point a few years back about compressing the learning curve and getting 2 years in Fayetteville versus in total 18 years.
But I'm wondering what is the average -- what do you think your average time is to evaluate a play and bring it to commerciality? And secondly what odds do you put on the plays that you're looking at? Yes as far as how fast it takes to get something on it depends a lot on depth and how fast you can get information.
If you've got a shallow play you can get information a lot faster than you can on deep wells.
It also depends on how much the industry effort is in that play.
So if you think about Haynesville well was deep and took time for each individual well.
The industry could [ph] -- very quickly ramped up to like 180 rigs and basically could take that play from the first couple of wells just learning about it to producing 4 or 5 Bcf a day in 3.5 4 years.
So there's variables in there.
And you kind of see those variables.
When you look at the Utica play that they're working on those first Utica wells that people were talking about already are on -- probably almost 2 years old and you're just now starting to see that ramp up and that has to do with just the play and the area and how fast the industry jumps on it.
So I don't know if there's an answer to say how fast any average play would work.
I will say that we're learning from each other.
So the Fayetteville what we did in the Fayetteville when we first started doing Marcellus we learned from that.
What we did in the Marcellus we learned from and were using it in the Haynesville.
What we use in all these other plays we're learning and using in Brown Dense and in Colorado.
So we expect that because of what's been done in the past we'll be able to get up this curve very quickly.
That's why we think we can make decisions on whether its going to work or not by the end of the year.
And then you ramp up from there.
As far as...
When did you start the Brown Dense to give you a -- give us a benchmark on that one.
Yes.
We came up with the idea almost 3 years ago now.
We started leasing it about almost 2 years ago.
And then we spud our first well in I think it was September late September time frame last year.
So from a drilling standpoint we've only been working on it now 8 months 9 months somewhere in that range.
And then as far as the risks on these plays we're working on what we said from day one is that some plays are not going to work.
What we want to do is test 2 ideas a year over a 5-year period of time have 10 ideas that we've tested and 2 to 3 of those work.
And part of success comes to the size also not just the fact that it produces commercial quantities.
And we said that those 2 to 3 we want to be big enough to replace the Fayetteville Shale.
And I think we're on that track.
And when you take a look at Brown Dense and the Colorado and then we havent talked about New Brunswick what's going on in New Brunswick and other ones we'll talk about in the future that's our goal.
So any of these plays the implicit chance of them working are probably between 20% and 30%.
Now certainly as you drill those will change as you're drilling.
And as I talked about before in the Brown Dense I think we're getting closer but we're certainly not to a point where we can say yes it's going to work here.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
I started the conversation today saying I thought 2012 will be exciting.
It has been exciting.
We're learning things daily and it's not just on the gas price side that we're learning things.
We're learning things about what's going on in the field and how we're doing it.
If you think about the Fayetteville Shale we're drilling faster than we thought we were going to drill.
We're adjusting to that.
We've increased our vertical integration and you'll start seeing the effects of that next year on the cost-cutting side.
We've looked at and are drilling the best wells and can drill wells that work in this economic environment.
Marcellus we continue to get the takeaway we need to ramp up.
And if you think about last quarter we talked about a maximum takeaway of $500 million a day.
Today we're talking about $700 million a day in the Marcellus.
Midstream continues to grow and Greg talked about how that was working.
And then you've got the New Venture plays.
And what could be more exciting than having a well at TD in Colorado getting ready to sidetrack it; having a third well in the Brown Dense and seeing differences but also seeing progression as you go through the whole process? So we're excited about the year.
We're excited about the quarter.
And then the last thing I want to mention here is we want to give thanks.
And we want to give thanks to all of our investors.
I know a lot of you have followed us over the last 8 years.
And it truly is a milestone to hit 2 Bcf a day gross production and 2 Tcf produced out at Fayetteville Shale.
And who would've thought 7 8 years ago that we'd be selling Overton and that we would have produced 2 Tcf out of a play no one even heard about? So I want to thank you for following us all this time.
And I want to thank our employees one more time.
The amount of work and dedication to get to this point is tremendous and with the plays and ideas we have going forward and the many more years of Fayetteville and Marcellus I know we'll have a lot more milestones.
I'm looking for those milestones.
So thank you.
And well talk to you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller President and CEO of Southwestern Energy.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mueller you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you've not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our second quarter results you can find a copy on our website www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the risk factors and the forward-looking statement section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe that expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
Bill and Greg will talk about SWN second quarter performance and will compare several important numbers.
I want to take just 1 minute and talk about the one number that was foremost in our minds during the quarter.
The average second quarter NYMEX price of $2.22 per Mcf.
That is 26% reduction from the year end 2011 price.
The swift and rapid decrease in gas price has caused the 49% year-over-year decrease in total industry rigs drilling for gas in United States.
SWN has also rapidly adjusting to the price changes but rather than retrenching like the rig count our emphasis on Value+ allowed us to continue our strong progress in every investment area in the second quarter.
As we mentioned last quarter investing in the best wells in the Fayetteville Shale has increased the initial rates and more importantly the quality of the completed wells.
In addition we continue to decrease days to drill below our recent year end 2011 estimates.
The Marcellus production is ramping up and we're encouraged by what we're seeing in our New Ventures projects.
Record production faster times and lower costs are products of the culture of this focus on Value+.
I will now turn the call over to Bill for more details on the results of that focus in the second quarter.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
In the Fayetteville Shale we placed 131 operated wells on production in the second quarter resulting in net production of 121 Bcf which is up from 116 Bcf in the first quarter and 107 Bcf a year ago which was a new quarterly record for us.
Our operated horizontal wells had an average initial production rate of 3.5 million cubic feet of gas per day up from 3.3 million cubic feet of gas per day in the first quarter an average completed well cost of $2.8 million per well and an average drilling time of 6.9 days during the quarter which is the fastest quarterly drill time in the history of the play.
We also placed 30 wells on production during the quarter that were drilled in 5 days or less.
As you may recall we've optimized our portfolio in the Fayetteville and are targeting the highest return wells in the field.
Going forward we expect to see our average production on a per well basis improve over the next few quarters.
On the Midstream side our gas gathering business in the Fayetteville Shale continues its strong performance and at June 30 was gathering approximately 2.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day through 1 829 miles of gathering lines compared to gathering approximately 2 billion cubic feet a day a year ago.
Lately our production in the Fayetteville has been affected by recent extremely high temperatures in Central Arkansas and year-to-date we estimate that production from the field has been impacted by 0.5 to 1 Bcf due to the extreme heat.
However since June 30 our gross production rate has returned to approximately 2 Bcf per day.
However we are still managing the impact of extreme heat on our compressors and dehydration facilities.
In the Marcellus Shale in Bradford and Susquehanna Counties in Pennsylvania we had 41 operated Marcellus wells on production at the end of the quarter resulting in net production of 9.9 Bcf which is up from the 5.1 Bcf in the same quarter in 2011.
Gross operated production was approximately 166 million cubic feet per day of gas as of June 30.
Since that time our gross production rate from the area has surpassed 200 million cubic feet a day out of the area.
Our operations at Greenzweig continue to go very well with 39 producing wells online.
We also just placed additional compression on the line at Greenzweig which has already allowed us to increase our rate from the area.
We began selling gas from our price area in Susquehanna County in May and we had 2 wells producing at a combined rate of 10 million cubic feet of gas per day at June 30 without the aid of compression into TGP 300.
In our Range Trust area which is approximately 70 000 net acres in Susquehanna County we've completed and flow tested 3 wells to date before they were shut in waiting on pipelines.
The wells were only flowed for a short period of time to avoid flaring of gas and showed strong performance in the initial 5 days flowback period.
Productivity calculations for all 3 wells indicate that Greenzweig-type performance should be expected once the wells are turned to sales in the fourth quarter.
In New Ventures we hold approximately 3.8 million net undeveloped acres of which 2.5 million net acres are located in New Brunswick Canada.
In our Lower Smackover Brown Dense play in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana we have over 560 000 net acres leased we have drilled 4 wells in the play to date and we are currently drilling 2 additional wells.
Our first 2 wells were completed earlier this year and are currently shut-in for testing.
Our third well the BML located in Union Parish Louisiana was drilled to a vertical depth of approximately 10 400 feet with a 4 300-foot horizontal lateral and was completed with 19 successful fracture stimulation stages in June.
After 41 days of flowing up casing and after approximately 43% of the load was recovered the well's highest 24-hour producing rate to date was 421 barrels of 50-degree API oil per day 3.9 million cubic feet of gas per day and 836 barrels of water per day with a calculated flowing bottom hole pressure of 5 700 psi on a 24/64-inch choke.
The BML well also averaged 353 barrels of oil per day and 3.3 million cubic feet of gas per day for more than 30 days during the test period.
We've installed tubing and have shut in the well in order to perform a pressure buildup test and wait for pipeline connections.
Once pipeline connections can be completed we expect to begin flowing -- selling both oil and gas from the well in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The oil pricing we receive from this area is at a premium to WTI and analysis of the gas shows high Btu content of around 1 220 Btu so we should receive a premium to NYMEX due to the richer gas liquids.
We're encouraged by the BML results.
However we also know that we have more work to do and to learn in order to make the play economic.
Our fourth well the Johnson located in Union Parish Louisiana was drilled to a vertical depth of 10 507 feet in July.
Like the BML well this well also encountered unusually high pressure within the target formation.
We will complete this well vertically in order to test the effects of fracturing fluid and sand type on reservoir performance.
However it will be able to be reentered as a horizontal well in the future.
We also commenced drilling on the Dean well located in Union Parish Louisiana which is currently drilling at approximately 8 325 feet.
This well is planned to be drilled to approximately 10 450 feet and completed vertically.
And finally we are drilling the Doles well located in Union Parish Louisiana which is currently drilling at approximately 6 375 feet to a planned measure depth of approximately 17 300 feet with a 6 000-foot horizontal lateral.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin oil play in Eastern Colorado we leased approximately 290 000 net acres and completed our first well in July.
The Ewertz Farms located in Adams County.
This well was drilled to a total vertical depth of 8 550 feet with a 2 000-foot horizontal lateral targeting the Marmaton formation.
We're in the early days on this well with less than a quarter of the flowback having been recovered but we're encouraged as oil production began on day 3 after flowback commenced.
The highest 24-hour producing rate to date for the Ewertz well was 65 barrels of oil per day on a pump 40 000 cubic feet of gas and 740 barrels of oil --  I mean barrels of water excuse me per day.
We also going to drill the Staner 58 well located 20 miles away in Arapahoe County Colorado to a total vertical depth of 9 650 feet.
This well is planned to be completed in August and as a vertical completion.
We'll evaluate the production from these 2 wells over the next 90 days and additional drilling in the area is planned near the end of the year.
In New Brunswick Canada we've deferred our planned 2012 exploration program until 2013 to provide additional time for public engagement and completion of the permitting process.
The Department of Natural Resources and other key government officials support this decision and we will continue to work together with the appropriate parties to be able to accomplish the work we would like to do in 2013.
And finally we spud our Bedwell horizontal well in Sheridan County Montana on July 10 targeting the Bakken and Three Forks objectives.
This well drilled the objective section and reached total vertical depth of 8 619 feet.
We're currently drilling at the curve at approximately 7 600 feet TVD for the planned 3 200-foot horizontal lateral.
At this time this is all we're going to say about this particular area.
In closing we continue to do the right things which is focusing on PVI driving down our costs and continuing the innovation process across all of our existing assets and new plays.
We're also encouraged about our New Ventures ideas and have additional exciting ideas that will come to the surface at a later date.
I look forward to reporting back to you next quarter on our progress.
And I'll now turn it over to Greg Kerley our Chief Financial Officer who will discuss financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
We reported earnings for the second quarter of approximately $91 million or $0.26 a share excluding the noncash ceiling test impairment of the company's natural gas and oil properties which resulted from low gas prices.
Our discretionary cash flow was $355 million in the second quarter and $725 million for the first 6 months.
Despite significantly lower natural gas prices our year-to-date discretionary cash flow was down only 14% due to our production growth strong commodity hedge position and performance to our Midstream business and our low cost structure.
Our average realized gas price of $3.12 for the quarter was down 27% from the same period last year while NYMEX settlement prices for the second quarter were approximately half of what they were a year ago.
Our realized gas price included gains from our commodity hedging activities which increased our average gas price by $1.36 per Mcf during the quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we have 134 Bcf of our gas production hedged at a weighted average floor price of $5.16 per Mcf.
This strong commodity hedge position along with the cash flow generated by our Midstream Services business protects approximately 60% of our expected cash flow for 2012.
Operating income for our E&amp;P segment was $76 million during the quarter excluding the noncash impairment compared to $222 million in the same period last year.
Our cost structure continues to be one of the key drivers of our financial results and is one of the lowest in the industry with all-in cash operating cost of $1.20 per Mcf for the second quarter which includes our LOE taxes G&amp;A and interest.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment grew by 20% in the second quarter to approximately $72 million.
The increase in operating income was primarily due to the increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus Shale plays.
Our balance sheet continues to be in good shape with a net debt-to-book capital ratio of a little less than 30% and a total debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 1.
We currently have nothing drawn in our unsecured $1.5 billion credit facility and also had cash at the end of the quarter of around $41 million and a restricted cash from the sale of our Overton properties of approximately $144 million which further strengthens our liquidity position.
Year-to-date we've invested $1.2 billion including $1.1 billion in our exploration and production business.
Our planned total capital investment program for 2012 remains at $2.1 billion and was front-end loaded in the first 2 quarters by design.
So we expect the decline in our capital investing during the third and fourth quarters of the year.
And as a result we expect to end the year with no additional increase in our total debt level for where we are today and also expect to hit our production targets.
Looking ahead we are focused on keeping our balance sheet in good shape and will remain vigilant in reducing our cost even further and remain flexible in our decisions on capital investments.
That concludes my comments.
And now we'll turn it back to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Scott Hanold of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously I think Smackover is going to be an area of focus and so I guess my question is can you give us your view on what you think has gone on with the well? It's got lot more gas relative to some of the other ones and that bottom hole pressure seems incredibly high.
I mean what is your interpretation of what's going on and what does that portend potentially to like EUR and longer-term productivity? Scott we don't know exactly what the overall results is going to be here that's why we're drilling the 2 vertical wells and doing some testing on those.
But as we discussed last quarter that BML well did hit some pressure that's significantly higher than we've seen in the other wells.
And you're seeing that in the bottom hole pressure you're seeing that in the rates and it's given us a lot of encouragement.
As far as the gas and the oil when you go back and look at the second well the second well had similar ratios of gas to oil didn't have quite as high rates so this one looks a lot more like the second well than it does the first well.
But with the high pressures we're still trying to sort out exactly what the meaning of that is.
We won't know probably for another 45 to 60 days actually seeing the details and all the numbers from the core data.
But in looking at it through just visual inspection it looks like the zone that we have in the BML well and the 2 vertical wells -- one vertical well with TD to date and hopefully in the other well as we get down has more dolomite in it and actually has a little bit of silt in it as compared to the second and first wells had more carbonate in them.
But what that means across the permeability? What that means -- where it goes and how it works? We're still trying to figure that out.
LLC Research Division</strong> So will this be -- I mean obviously just broadly speaking kind of analogous to what you have in the Bakken where you've got like a dolomitic sandstone near a shale that tends to be more productive? Am I reading in a little bit too much into it? No.
There could be a little bit of that but basically it looks like more than half the zone somewhere in that range 40% to 60% of the zone has this different characteristic to it in the third and fourth wells that we didn't see in the first 2 wells.
And to remind everyone the total zones that we're looking at in this third and fourth well is about 450 foot thick.
So it's a fairly thick interval as opposed to the Bakken which is a fairly thin zone with shales on either side of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe moving to the Marcellus.
So it sounds like the infrastructures come online so we're going to see a pretty good step function now that you've got some of the firm.
And how many wells do you have I guess in backlog? I think you said 41 producing.
How many are in backlog and are expected to be brought on production in the second half of the year? I think in the second part of the year we're looking at between probably around 60 or so wells 60 plus wells that we'll have to put on production.
Let me also clarify while we are -- our production is increasing the key step jumps that you're talking about is the Bluestone line.
That Bluestone line is not operational yet and it looks like it will not be operational until sometime in the fourth quarter.
We will continue to have an increase in production but the Bluestone by itself should be almost 100 million a day production late in the year.
So that's still to come and we'll continue to put lines on.
As we talked about and as Bill talked about almost all the wells we have online to date are along the Stagecoach pipeline and Greenzweig area.
We only have those 2 wells down in Price in the Southern Susquehanna online.
And all the wells we're drilling in the Northern Susquehanna block that Bill mentioned we had 3 wells we tested.
Those will all come on right at the end of the year.
Our next question is from the line of David Kistler of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Kind of a bit big picture question here.
As we start thinking about 2013 and looking at your New Ventures program you've got a number of more visible efforts than you have in the past.
Looks like we're focusing on a period of continued weak gas prices.
Most of the Fayetteville was held by production.
How do we think about how spending looks for next year? Do you maybe shift down activity in the Fayetteville take up New Ventures more than you have in the past? Do you consider for New Ventures doing some acquisition-type activity? So very big picture but would love to get any color you can give us in that direction.
Well our first hope is we've got 3 discoveries and we really have an issue that we have to figure out how to fund all of them.
Now from a practical standpoint I don't know that we'll have that in 2013.
We just have to look at it.
We talked about in the past we're driven on present value index and if we find something in new venture and it's better than anything we have then anything is potentially on the table to fund that better project.
If for instance it's better than Fayetteville and not quite as good as the Marcellus then you have a different way to fund and you start moving dollars around.
And certainly we have capacity as Greg mentioned we've got our balance sheet is clean we've got our borrowing line that we can borrow on till we start any kind of new venture program and we've got other ways that we can access capital.
So I think the big key is find something that's good figure out how good it is.
And once you find that we will figure out a way to fund it and everyone I think will be happy with that.
Does that include though maybe looking at acquisitions a little different than in the past where things have been organically driven? We certainly have a group and Jeff Sherrick who is in the room is part of the -- heads up that group that is looking for ways both to supplement our New Ventures group where they come up with ideas or may be acres that have some kind of held-by production characteristics to it.
Or if we want to get into an area the best way to get into the area is acquisitions.
And I don't think that slows down or speeds up based on what we find in New Ventures.
I think if anything it's just part of the overall plan.
We really don't care how we do it.
It's just a matter of finding those good projects and going on down the road from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that color.
And then maybe one micro question.
Looking at the Fayetteville specifically and the 60-day IP rate it looks like over the last year certainly since 3Q '11 the 60-day rates have tended to trend down.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe what's happening there? Obviously we're seeing the initial IP start to go up as you are high grading your portfolio.
But looking at the 60 they seem to be slipping a little.
If you remember in 2010 and the first half of 2011 we drilled a significant number of wells.
It ended up to be almost 600 wells basically over those 2 years a little over 1 000 wells drilled.
There were tests down spacing.
And certainly as you get the wells closer together and start seeing interference from them some point in the out past the initial rate you'll start seeing the effects of that.
And then in the second half of 2011 we started actually doing the drilling picked our space that we thought will be appropriate for each of the areas and then started drilling pad drilling.
And so we always talked about expect in 2012 and beyond that you're going to start seeing interference and you could have see it in the 60-day numbers and then you'll certainly see it in the overall numbers when we talked about 10% to 15%-type interference.
What actually happened and what you're seeing in the IPs is at the beginning of this year with the drop in the gas prices there we went to drilling the best wells not worrying about drilling pad wells we widened up the spacing on those wells and we talked about last quarter expect that the IP will be better in the second half of the year.
You're just starting to see that it was our second quarter production.
And if you think about the 60-day rates the 60-day rates are reflecting the very beginning of this quarter with the numbers.
You don't have the June data in there.
You aren't going to see a June data for another 45 days or so.
And so you should see that whole curve move up as it goes in the future.
But again it's going to move up because we're drilling the very best wells.
Once we get back to pad drilling whenever that is that you're going to have the same interference issues and you'll start seeing those numbers work back down again.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Brian Lively of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups one on the Brown Dense well.
The fact that the well had 5 700 pounds of flow in bottom hole pressure and a 24-inch choke that suggested there was a lot more productive capacity in this well at least that's my assumption.
I'm just wondering maybe you guys can provide some color on what you think the well could have flown at at maybe more normalized conditions? I don't know if we want to make a guess at that.
Let me tell you generally what we do with the well.
We put the well on with the 16 choke 16/64 choke and basically floated through the entire period with 16/64 choke.
That 24 choke was only for 2 days and total of 7 days of total flow period was something different than 16 choke.
What we're trying to do is a step change to see what would happen with water rates see what happen with gas rates see what happen with oil rates.
And while we got our best oil rate during that period of time I can tell you that the water rate also increased.
Right before we went from the step up from the 16 to 24 we had water rates -- oil rates in the mid-300 range and water rates in a couple hundred barrels a day range.
And as we stepped up you start seeing some higher water rates.
The whole idea here is to see what would happen.
And really I think that's what you need to think about the entire well.
We put it on a 16 we're going to keep it on low rates even when we first put it on production later or on low chokes because we don't want to damage the reservoir anyway.
We want to see what the reservoir can do.
And then once we understand what the reservoir can do how the frac is working later wells we'll worry about what the right or best rates could have been on them.
So again just like the first couple of wells we're trying to learn as much as we can with this well.
And you'll see in the 2 verticals we're drilling we will be trying some different kinds of fracs to learn what we can.
And that 6 500-foot lateral we talked about that'll be drilled basically off the pad that BML well is on that well will actually frac a little bit different.
We'll have a whole different set of learning.
So we're continuing down that learning path and at the same time being very encouraged with what we're seeing.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
It sounds like the rates could have been better if you had opened the well up a little more but that would be on the kind of total fluid basis.
My follow-up is more...
Well you can see we are moving a lot of fluid.
That formation has given up a lot of fluid between the water and the oil.
And I just mentioned the water that we're getting at this point in time we still believe it's flowback water.
We're not seeing anything that hints that it's formation water.
Certainly that's one of the risks as we go down the road.
There could be some formation water there and we won't know that until we get longer tests which on this well will be later in the year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's okay.
Just a follow-up is kind of on the actual stream itself.
Assuming the gas is pretty high Btu gas can you break out what you think the NGL volume would be for that gas stream? The kind of stabilized Btu for that gas is about 1 200 Btu gas so there's significant NGL in it.
And then we talked about on the oil that we should get a premium price.
We did sell some oil at WTI plus $10 off of the lease and the reason for that is there's  4 refineries in the area about 135 000 barrels a day of refining capacity 1 is in Arkansas and 3 in Northern Louisiana.
And they really would like to have the oil condensate that comes off of this.
So both the gas is going to be rich and we'll have some NGLs with it and the oil has a premium price to it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's not unreasonable then to assume a couple hundred barrels a day of NGL volume barrels from the stream then right? Yes we're still working on the analysis to figure out.
It's a couple hundred or 150 or what that number is.
Our next question is from Hsulin Peng of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question to Brown Dense.
Can you comment on the current well cost? And also what you're targeting for the wells to be commercial in terms of well cost the oil volume gas volume IP rates on new wells [ph] that sort of thing.
We talked about in the past that we thought we could drill roughly $8 million wells here assuming 4 000-foot laterals.
That was at the assumption of the lower pressures.
Today -- this may not stay this way but today we're thinking we have to run at least one other string of pipe for the higher pressures and probably have a little longer laterals.
So if I have to guess today the number we're shooting for in the high pressure is somewhere between $10 million and $12 million from a well cost standpoint.
When we start looking at how that works out in the economics I think still that that 500 barrel a day range on the oil only side still makes that work.
It may be 550 versus 475 before on the other but it's still in that general range especially when you start talking about the Btu that's on that gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 500 barrels for oil does that include or exclude the gas the NGL component? That excludes the gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And second question just one macro related.
I just wanted to get your take on the gas production in the U.S.
overall because we have seen that production has been holding fairly steady not really -- hasn't really gone down.
What is your -- what do you think when the gas production could turnover potentially? Yes that's one of those I wish I knew the exact answer to that.
We could do a lot of things with it.
But we expect that the gas is going to be slow in turning over.
I think it's flattened out right and will stay fairly flat for the next several months.
The reason we believe it's going to stay flat for the next several months is that every area while rigs are dropping everyone is doing the same thing we're doing in the Fayetteville shale.
They're drilling their best wells.
And so I think it's going to follow not the same shape but the same general concept that happened to Barnett where as the rigs dropped off the Barnett production held fairly stubborn flat for a while and now started to turn over.
And predicting where the core areas are in each one of these areas and what the best wells are it's difficult to do.
And that's why I say we're comfortable for the next several months that you're not going to see a strong turnover in production.
But when and how that's the real question.
Our next question is from Marshall Carver of Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Brown Dense.
The second well that Garrett 7-23-5H well that you've discussed on the last call you talked about rates likely increasing as more load was recovered.
Did that actually happen into May and potentially in the June or did you shut it in before that -- it continue to ramp up? If you could just give me any color there I'd appreciate it.
We shut that well in a few days after last conference call have done an extended period trying to figure out the pressure on it and this kind of ties in -- I'm trying to understand the BML well as well and trying to tie core data pressures and everything together.
And again it had a fairly high gas rate.
The next time you'll see anything from that well is if we hook that well up and put it online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did...
We might do some work in the well but you're not going to see much production from it for a while.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What were the pressures on those first couple of wells versus this much higher pressure third well? What were -- do you know those pressures...
Roberson well had 2 750 bottom hole pressure to Garrett was up to 4 100 bottom hole pressure and then the BML as we said before was at 5 700 flowing bottom hole pressure.
Our next question is from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Marcellus your exhibit showing your rate history and lack of decline especially in some of the recent wells makes it look like the wells could be producing more and then you highlighted the lack of compression on some of your recent wells.
In the absence of compression and midstream constraints what do you think the Greenzweig range and Price wells could be producing at and what's the implication from the data that you're seeing on what the right EURs are from those wells? Well we certainly have some large EURs and you can see that from the graph that we put in our investor's data and put in the press release.
I don't think you'll ever see a high rate from us high being -- I've seen some numbers in the general area 20 million to 30 million a day numbers.
And the reason for that is we're keeping the drawdown across the perforation at a certain level.
And that will limit the total rate of the wells and will make them look flat.
And then as you said we've also got the other part of it that some of these wells are so strong either we haven't had to put compression out there yet or we haven't turned the compression on because everything goes straight into the line which acts like a choke and let's it stay fairly flat.
So I think the other way to kind of answer the question is we certainly have some wells in that Greenzweig area and Bradford County that match up with anyone else's wells that are out there from a productivity standpoint.
It's just the way we're producing them maybe a little different than some of these operators are doing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then as a follow-up have you seen anything in the portfolio that makes you want to reconsider monetizing some or all of your Midstream business? Not yet.
The Midstream business is there it's continuing to grow it's performing better than we had budgeted and kind of guided the beginning of the year.
And as you look in the future to monetize it we're going to have to have some projects to put the dollars into.
And those are probably more likely being New Ventures-type projects.
Now we've got the capital we need to do the Fayetteville and the Marcellus.
So at this point in time we're excited about having the Midstream.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Back to the Brown Dense I know you guys have fielded a lot of questions on that this morning.
You need to ask me about Colorado.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry to follow on this well worn path but maybe I'll ask something just a little bit different.
Relative to the earlier things about the flowing pressures isn't really bottom hole -- shut in bottom holes is really we should be most interested in? I think you want to be interested in both probably.
You want the initial -- you always like to have an initial bottom hole pressure where you can see we've started from and that's something greater than 8 000 pounds.
And then basically part of the science that we're doing is trying to understand how that pressure changes with certain rates as you go through.
And one of the reasons we left it on a 16/64 choke for that whole period so we can see how that pressure responded.
And that tells you something about permeability it tells you a little bit about the produce-ability of the formation.
So you really need to know both.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You kind of need all of them because any one in isolation is really the relationship between them that tells the story.
On the -- when I look at your wells the Doles and the Dean and the BML and I put them on the map they're all really close together and it really looks like -- it gives the impression I think you guys certainly followed through on that this morning that you guys think you're onto something here.
But my question is how kind of aerial extent -- in terms of aerial extent how large do you think this high-pressure area of the Smackover is? I mean how large -- how many kind of -- because it's all within a couple of sections right now at least is what I see and where your permits are.
Yes we're trying to understand that.
And since it was completely unexpected.
And just to remind everyone there have been over 30 wells drilled previously to us going out and drilling had gone into or drilled through the Brown Dense they haven't seen the high pressure.
None of those wells have seen the high pressure.
We drilled our BML well.
The first vertical part of the BML well did not see the high pressure.
And then in the lateral about 300 feet out in that horizontals where we actually saw the high pressure took a kick.
And so now we're trying to figure out what that means what the rock looks like.
So as you said we'd stake the next few wells around the BML so we've got something to compare back to.
And so the first vertical well is only about 2 miles north.
The 6 500-foot lateral we're drilling is being drilled right next to that original BML well and just a different direction to learn something is going on that way.
The other well the Dean well that we talked about is a vertical.
That's about 6 miles due east.
And then if you look at the press release we had and you'll see in our investor data we have permitted some other wells and those other wells started stepping out.
Some of those wells could very well be high-pressured and there's probably some of those permitted wells that are back trying to test what we saw in the first 2 wells.
But we're just stepping out from what we know and trying to learn just because it's kind of caught us off guard in our general overall thought process out there.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess the follow-up to that step out it looks to me like one of your competitors at least under their name has permitted a couple of these 1 280 units just the northwest of you guys.
Are you guys going to be in that well -- or in those wells or are you familiar with those? Yes I know there's been some wells permitted around us.
I do not -- I personally don't know if we have any interest in those wells.
Our next question is from the line of Amir Arif of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I had is just curious why you're doing -- I mean on initial vertical I understand is to step out to see if the overpressure zone but why the second vertical beyond that instead of just going ahead and testing horizontally? I guess the second one the easiest way to explain that is we just don't have enough information at this point.
And when you think about having a 450-foot thick zone it's hard in a horizontal to make sure that you frac completely across the zone.
It's hard to figure out if you've -- what the productivity is as various parts of that.
So we have a program worked out between the 2 verticals to test the things that we want to test and that's the whole story there.
I wouldn't be surprised at all once we get the testing of both wells done like Bill said we will turn around and drill some horizontals from those locations.
But we think it takes 2 wells to get all the things we want to learn.
If there is a slim chance that that first well vertical we could learn almost everything we wanted and we turn around and drill that second one as a horizontal without testing it But right now as it sits today I think we have to test both of them.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up question I apologize I jumped in late so I apologize if you answer this the 385 000 disclosed acres in New Ventures do you know how much of that is in Montana or how many different plays that is spread over in terms of the remaining...
It is more than one and that's all we'll say.
And certainly there's some Montana acreage in there because we haven't talked about Montana.
Our next question is from the line of Kevin Kaiser of Hedgeye Risk Management.
How do you think about picking up more natural gas acreage given the commodity price environment? And maybe it's a bit of a buyer market there are you interested in acquiring more acreage either in the Marcellus or Fayetteville or in the New Venture? There's not a lot of acreage in the Fayetteville at least not available right now.
Certainly in the Marcellus you see that each quarter we have a little bit of acreage in the numbers maybe only 2 000 or 3 000 acreage but we keep shipping away there.
And if the right opportunity came along we'd certainly like to continue building our position in Marcellus.
Gas in general if there was an idea that economics were as good as the gas economics on the various areas we're drilling today and look like they'd work with what we thought the forward curve was at we'd certainly look at gas.
We're not disposed to look for oil or look for gas.
Today with the oil price is a lot easier to find good oil projects.
But ultimately we just want good 1.3 present value index projects.
So that's what drives us not the product.
Our next question is from Mike Kelly of Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First I'm hoping you could talk about the status of the first 2 Brown Dense wells.
And really I'm just curious the rationale for shutting them in versus keeping them on production.
Well first well from what we saw on it is not economic and really at some point in time might be hooked up that would need some other encouragement in the area to lay the gas line and do all the things to hook that well up.
So the first well just consider it an experimental well.
Second well may get hooked up and we're looking at that right now.
But again the idea wasn't necessarily to make money off of any of the first 5 or 6 wells that we had out there.
The idea was to learn as much as we could.
So like in case of the second well when we saw the high pressures in the third and saw similar type gas and oil again the first well had 38-degree gravity the second and third had 50 and 52 gravity.
Now what we wanted to do is figure out the characteristics that made the third different from the second.
So we start figuring out how to -- both predict where it could be and predict what its productivity would be.
So that was driving us on the second well.
It's not hooking it up for producing longer and those other things.
We're just trying to do the most we can to learn as fast as we can so we can figure out the play will work or will not work.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think you took a number of us by surprise to learn last quarter that you were drilling a well in the Bakken.
And I'm wondering if this was a prospect that was generated under the New Ventures group or this was really an idea that was generated by the group.
You mentioned here on the call that was formed to complement or supplement the New Ventures group.
I think I've heard it called the strategic exploration group and if we could see that -- their influence have you guys drilling wells in some of these other new oil basins like maybe a Tuscaloosa Marine Shale well the Utica any color that you can provide there will be great.
Sure.
When you think about our company and step back say 4 years ago or 5 years ago we were concentrating completely on the Fayetteville Shale.
We were picking out some acreage in the Marcellus but did not have a concentrated effort on looking for new projects.
So we started New Ventures group got it up and running.
And then about a year ago said you've got New Ventures you've got Fayetteville and Marcellus but their slings had fallen between the cracks of those various groups.
And that's when Jeff's group came together.
And Jeffs' group I would put more as a M&amp;A type group.
They're out there looking at something that may have production on it that may have upside to it and it can supplement what the New Ventures is doing.
And then you talked about our strategic exploration side of it.
That's the group we just formed about 6 months ago 7 months ago.
So we kind of stepped on New Ventures then a year ago the M&amp;A effort and then 6 months ago the strategic and the Bakken play was developed in that group.
So I think now we've got the full contingency out there from being able to do development and do it very well all the way to look for rank exploration.
And that was our plan that we put together a few years ago.
We've kind of been putting pieces in place and I think all the pieces are there now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just real quickly just what are the big initiatives of that group the strategic exploration? They're doing the in between things kind of what you described I won't go into which areas are going into.
But there were there's more data there are places where the way you get in may not be just go out and lease a bunch of acreage or maybe some other ways you get into the play and they certainly work with Jeff's group on M&amp;A part of it too.
So they're the geological geophysical and kind of engineering spot the transitions between those pure M&amp;A and the joint ventures group.
Ladies and gentlemen at this time we have come to the end of our Q&amp;A session.
I will now turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Yes I really did hope someone was going to ask about Colorado and let me make a comment about Colorado before I make my closing comments.
We've had several people calling and say "Why in the world would you put those test rigs in the well in Colorado?" And we're -- I can tell you we're excited about Colorado.
One of the issues that could come up in the zone we're in is it may end up having a lot of water in it.
To date we've only seen water come back from -- that is flowback water.
When we think about the total fluids coming back very quickly in a 2 000-foot lateral only has 7 frac stages in it.
We're very encouraged by that.
It looks like the Marmaton there has got a lot of natural fracturing it's definitely got oil in it.
And with a little more production who knows what might happen there.
Now the other thing I'll just mention about Colorado and both the first and second wells we did see other zones and so you will see us test a little bit different zones in the second well.
But even in the first well down the road either that well or some offset to it you'll see us testing some other things.
So Colorado right now we're encouraged that even though those rates may not impress people out there we're very excited to have the total volume of fluids moving the way they are and to get a little bit of oil after the first little bit there.
And hopefully when we get down to a point where we can get a well completed in the Bakken we'll have similar excitement when we got to the Bakken as well.
So let me kind of just close quickly.
I started the call today talking about second quarter pricing and said this several times who would've imagined just 1 year 6 8 months ago that today we'd be excited about having $3 gas environment.
We were above $4 and we were hoping we're go higher at that time.
And that just confirms to us what we already knew.
The unconventional gas discoveries that we have in North America that created the short-term natural gas volatility the price drop because of convergence of rapidly increasing supply and a winter that was the warmest we've had in many many years.
What they have on here is 80 and I'm not sure that's right but certainly over 40 years.
The recent increases in the natural gas price are response of flattening production and we talked about that a little bit in the call and a very hot summer.
That's helped the supply and demand the balance have decreased more than 350 Bcf but we still need to decrease another almost 500 Bcf to be in balance.
And there's a lot of us trying to guess what's going to happen with that as we look into the future.
But there's 2 things we know as a company.
First near-term gas price is going to remain volatile; and second the current natural gas price has not created an economic returns from most of the plays in North America.
We think that's important.
We think knowing both those uncertainties are enough to us -- let us SWN navigate a successful course of action for this year and many more years.
We'll continue drilling the wells to meet our 1.3 PVI hurdle and we'll maintain a strong balance sheet.
Our relentless drive to lower costs in all projects will continue.
Some of those reductions will come from old-fashioned hard work and I want to thank all the employees for their old-fashioned hard work and you seeing that in our second quarter numbers.
They're down over what we've guided and they're down for the most part of the first quarter.
And then some of them are going to come from creative ideas like our further vertical integration in our pumping services.
We're also going to build on our future by continuing to search for and then economically testing new ideas.
And that's not just in our New Ventures group but especially out of New Ventures group but it's in every corner of the company.
The one thing I want to emphasize is these are not long-term hopes.
Expect short-term results from SWN.
Better and faster wells drilled in the Fayetteville Shale our year end extra rate of more than 300 million cubic foot feet per day at the Marcellus and significantly more information about our New Ventures plays by the end of the year.
Our expectations are based on the belief that we're the right people doing the right things and that combination will create tremendous value for us and for our shareholders in any price environment.
When we think about the right person doing the right thing certainly Greg Kerley must come to mind and be near the top of that list.
He's been an integral part of SWN's success for more than 20 years and he just announced his retirement as CFO effective October 1.
We'll miss him and I personally will miss him as we attack our everyday challenges.
But we're confident Craig Owen is ready to step in and fill in his shoes.
The other thing we know is we still have his wisdom since he'll remain on the Board of Southwestern Energy.
Thank you again Greg for your friendship your leadership and your passion.
And I also want to thank all of you for listening today and have a great weekend.
That ends our call.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller President and CEO Southwestern Energy.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mueller you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding the third quarter 2012 results you can find a copy at our website at www.swn.com.
Also I would like to point out that many of the comments during the teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the Forward-looking Statement section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
To begin I'd like to say that our thoughts and prayers are with our friends families and employees on the East Coast.
A storm like this puts everything in perspective and we are hoping that you are able to find higher ground and can be as comfortable as possible during this very uncomfortable time.
With that being said I want to take a moment to express how proud I am of the third quarter results.
We continue to make meaningful progress in lowering our costs.
This along with our growing production growing cash flow from our midstream and our hedge position continue to help our earnings and cash flow move higher.
Our wells in Fayetteville Shale have improved and our Marcellus production is growing and is expected to ramp up dramatically later in the fourth quarter.
We've also -- we also have several debenture prospects underway that I personally am excited about and especially knowing more with the Brown Dense later this year and added results from our Colorado and Montana plays in the first quarter of 2013.
Plus we have some other ideas we're working on we hope to unveil soon.
Let me take a few moments to talk about the macro picture regarding gas price.
U.S.
demand and production data for August are scheduled to be released today and everyone who follows those numbers knows how difficult it is to predict individual monthly data points.
The trends though are obvious.
Rig gas -- gas rig count is less than 1/2 of what it was a year ago and the U.S.
Lower 48 gas production has been nearly flat since the beginning of the year and that only reflects part of that decrease in rig count.
The lower gas price this year has increased demand the past 3 months almost 11% over 2011 and a combination of flat supply and increasing demand has averted that potential overfull storage problem so as the foregoing conclusion for many just a few months ago.
What does this mean about the future? As this week has shown weather still remains variable with the continuing narrowing of the supply demand and balance gives cause to be more constructive about 2013 gas prices and a strong case to be made for 2014 yearly average gas price above $4 as the many new gas power plant projects start coming online to help maintain healthy demand.
As shown this past year demand does change with change in price.
And as price rises both the possibility of some rig count returning and less coal to gas fuel switching is very real.
This will have the tendency to keep average yearly prices below $5 for the foreseeable future.
At SWN we use these tendencies to help plan but what if is always in the back of our mind.
What if the general economy drops? What if it begins to expand? What if oil rig count increases along with higher associated gas or what if weather is different than expected? Our job is to deliver in whatever the case of what if.
And as you will hear today SWN continues on the path of delivering and improving on the projects in our portfolio.
I will now turn the call over to Bill Way for more details on the operations and then to Craig for a recap of our financials.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
In the Fayetteville Shale we placed 105 operated wells on production in the third quarter resulting in net production of 123.6 Bcf which is up 10% from a year ago.
Our operated horizontal wells achieved a record quarterly average initial production rate of 3.8 million cubic feet a day up from 3.5 million cubic feet per day in the second quarter.
Our average completed well cost was $2.6 million per well with an average drilling time of 6.8 days during the quarter.
We also set new company record for drilling time of a well that reached total depth in late September.
This well had a total vertical depth of approximately 3 800 feet with a drilled lateral length of 3 625 feet and was drilled in just under 3 days.
As a result of our optimization efforts on our drilling portfolio we expect to see our average production on a per well basis continue at or around these levels over the next few quarters.
Supporting our success for vertical integration strategy we took delivery on the first of 2 fracture stimulation fleets in September.
Our newest team of employees have already put this equipment to work in the Fayetteville having successfully fracture stimulated 2 wells.
On the Midstream side our gas gathering businesses in the Fayetteville Shale continued to perform well and at September 30 was gathering approximately 2.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day through 1 837 miles of gathering lines compared to gathering 2 Bcf per day a year ago.
Before I speak about our Marcellus business as Steve said our thoughts and prayers go out to the people in the Northeast U.S.
who are dealing with the impacts of Hurricane Sandy.
And I want to take a moment to give special thanks to all of our employees in Pennsylvania for their terrific planning and preparation for this storm.
Because of their efforts we have fared very well so far with no damage or injuries to report.
Our Tunkhannock office was fully operational throughout the storm and we did not shut in any of our production.
We'll continue to monitor the situation closely and remain focused on the safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate.
During the third quarter we put 9 wells on production.
Our total well count stood at 50 operated producing wells including 44 wells in Bradford County and 6 wells in our Price area in Susquehanna County.
Net production from our Marcellus properties was 15.1 Bcf which is up 50% over the second quarter and more than double from a year ago.
During the quarter we commissioned the remaining Greenzweig compression and Bluestone compression enabling the full field to access SWN compression.
All wells can now deliver into Stagecoach with access to both Millennium and TGP transport lines.
In our Range Trust area in Northern Susquehanna County we have 25 wells currently either waiting on fracture stimulation or on the completion of the Bluestone pipeline the southern portion of which is estimated to be placed in service into TGP 300 around the end of November.
We expect our production to increase dramatically from our Marcellus properties over the next 14 months.
From today's current gross operated rate of over 200 million cubic feet per day we expect our year-end rate to be approximately 300 million cubic feet per day and our year-end rate at the end of 2013 to be over 500 million cubic feet per day.
Moving on to New Ventures.
We've drilled and completed 6 wells in our Lower Smackover Brown Dense play in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana.
And as a reminder from our second quarter call we drilled Wells 4 and 5 as vertical tests to see if we would encounter the same high pressure that we saw in our third well the BML.
Both vertical tests did encounter this high pressure.
In our fourth well we tried several different fracture stimulation recipes primarily involving different combinations of linear gel.
And in our fifth well we completed 3 vertical stages totaling 12 feet of preparations with white sand and slick water in the sand stages.
Production from this well has stabilized at approximately 200 barrels a day and 1.2 million cubic feet of gas for the last 10 days.
We're now using these wells to obtain additional log data and core samples over the formation and study the effectiveness of different fracture stimulation treatments on the contact area and to learn more about the fracture height growth.
At a later date we'll reenter these wells and turn them into horizontal wells some time in 2013.
Our sixth well the Doles located in Union Parish Louisiana was drilled in September to a vertical depth of 10 673 feet with a 4 700 foot completed horizontal lateral.
This well is being completed now and will begin flowing back shortly.
We expect to begin selling both oil and gas from the Doles well and the BML well around the end of November with the expectation of learning more about the decline characteristics of both wells before year end.
And I can tell you we remain highly encouraged and looking forward to learning more on our path to commerciality.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin oil play in Eastern Colorado we have leased approximately 300 000 net acres and have drilled and completed 2 wells and are permitting additional wells in the area.
We're testing multiple intervals in these 2 wells and evaluation will continue over the next 90 days.
We are encouraged by what we have seen so far and hope to have more information about this area in the first quarter of 2013.
And finally we drilled and completed a well in Sheridan County Montana targeting the Bakken/Three Forks subjective.
This well has been pumping for over 60 days and we are encouraged and are continuing to lease acreage.
However this is all we're going to say about this area at this time.
So in closing while we have enjoyed the recent gas price run up we are not standing still.
We're very proud of the efforts of our more than 2 300 people and excited about our positions in 2 of the best natural gas plays in the country.
And as Steve mentioned we'll continue to drive down our costs and continue to innovate to increase production performance in both areas.
Our New Venture ideas have some potential to impact our margins and our company in a very meaningful way if successful and we look forward to learning more about their commerciality over the next few months.
I look forward to reporting back to you in February on our progress.
Now let me turn the call over to Craig Owen who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
We reported earnings in third quarter of approximately $132 million or $0.38 per share excluding a noncash ceiling test impairment of our natural gas and oil properties resulting from low gas prices.
Our discretionary cash flow was $417 million in third quarter which continues to be resilient as Steve pointed out and nearly offset our entire capital investment level for the third quarter.
Our average realized gas price was $3.40 per Mcf for the quarter down 21% from the same period last year.
While NYMEX settlement prices for the third quarter were 33% lower than they were a year ago we continue to benefit from our hedging activities which increased our average gas price by $1.05 during the quarter.
For the remainder of 2012 we have 67 Bcf of gas production hedged at a weighted average floor price of $5.16 per Mcf and for 2013 186 Bcf hedged at $5.06.
We continue to monitor the gas markets and we'll be looking for opportunities to add to our hedge position over the next several months.
Operating income for our EMP segment was $145 million for the quarter excluding the ceiling test impairment compared to $228 million in the same period last year.
To echo Steve's comments we continue to see cost moving in the right direction and our cost structure continues to be a key competitive advantage for us with our all-in cash operating cost of $1.14 per Mcfe for the third quarter which includes our LOE G&amp;A taxes and interest.
Operating income from our Midstream services segment grew 13% in third quarter to approximately $75 million primarily due to the increasing gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus shale plays.
The cash flow generated by our Midstream services segment combined with our strong hedged position protects approximately 60% of our total expected cash flow in 2012.
Our balance sheet continues to be in good shape with a net debt to book capitalization ratio of 32% and total debt to trailing EBITDA ratio of about 1x.
To remind everyone we have a $1.5 billion credit facility which had very little drawn on it at the end of the quarter and had cash and restricted cash at the end of the quarter of $146 million.
So our liquidity continues to be very strong.
With our planned total capital investment program for 2012 of $2.1 billion we expect to end the year with nothing borrowed on our credit facility.
Looking ahead we remain focused on keeping our costs as low as possible maintaining a strong balance sheet and being good stewards of our capital investments.
That concludes my comments.
So we'll now turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company International.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly as we look at kind of a multitude of new venture opportunities and getting more color on those in I guess the fourth quarter call can you give us maybe some color with respect to spending on those plays between here and there and maybe with respect to '13? As you guys are gathering information are you considering or pursuing bringing in a partner into any of the plays? Maybe -- probably the one you have the more information on would be the Brown Dense at this point.
As far as '13 goes and really as you look out into the future I would just assume that not much more than about 10% to 12% of our capital budget will be going towards New Ventures on average.
Now I think the individual year might be a little bit higher so that's going to be a relatively constant number just to kind of whats our total capital budget is in any given year.
For the rest of this year from a pure capital investment while we're picking up some acreage in some areas there's not a significant amount of drilling to do between now and the end of the year so most of our capitals invested at this point in time.
And then your other comment about bringing in a partner.
We'll look at each of our plays.
And weve talked about this in the past New Brunswick we definitely ultimately will need a partner.
It's just a matter of when to bring them in.
Some of the other plays may end up needing to have partners for various reasons whether it's to look at the risk standpoint or whether it's just total capital invested and we'll just look at that as we go along.
So I think that we'll just put a normal course of business and we'll just figure out when and if we want to do it in any of those places.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate that.
And then as a follow-up IPs -- initial IPs in the Fayetteville based on kind of picking your best quality wells off the charts kind of record number for you guys but the 30th and 60th day are kind of lagging that same kind of change.
Can you walk us through when we would expect to see that reflected into the 30th and 60th day? I'll let Bill handle that one.
The 30 60 day lags are in fact lags.
Some of our best wells came on in September in our optimization program and they're now just moving into those averages.
Youll recall we had a little bit of weather impact in July that we reported last quarter but the main reason is really just the lag effect of rolling them into the averages and we expect those averages will come up as we move in through the fourth quarter.
And I think if you look at that table there's like 43 wells is all that's in that 60 day number.
Once we get all 100-plus wells into it it'll come back up.
Our next question is coming from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if I just missed it but can you give some color how you're thinking about 2013? I know there's not -- they're not fairly specific here but just from a CapEx perspective relative to cash flow relative to this year's budget and how you're thinking about balancing between the Fayetteville and the Marcellus and New Ventures.
We really haven't given much guidance on 2013.
We're still working on that.
And typically towards the end of the year we normally put out a press release that talks about our 2013.
So I'd expect something later this year or early next year on actual 2013.
Obviously we talked about in the past that we're increasing rig count in the Marcellus and we'll exit the year with 4 rigs doing basically the horizontal work there.
That will increase the capital budget on the Marcellus side so I could see a weighting that's more Marcellus-oriented next year versus the dominant last few years where the Fayetteville has been 75% to 80% of the capital.
You'll see that more balanced may not be balanced but more balanced.
And then Midstream in general a lot of the work's been done on the Fayetteville Shale.
And in the Marcellus we've got another year in the same category we had now where it's $80 million $90 million.
So I'd say Midstream is flat or a little bit down is really towards the future.
And then as I said before on the New Ventures expect 10% to 12% of our capital budget to go to New Ventures.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then a couple of questions on the Marcellus.
I think you highlighted the backlog or the wells that are uncompleted in your release.
Can you just talk to a couple things? One it really looks like your Ewertz are at or above the 10 Bcf-type group.
Would you agree with that? And does that translate into bookings when it comes to the end of this year? And then second how do you expect to meet the  to get up to the 300 million a day? Do your existing wells have a lot of additional production potential or does some of that backlog come on to meet the Midstream constraints at East? Our expectations on wells are meeting or exceeding what we thought they would be.
So we have no change really in that.
It's looking very good so far.
The majority of our production obviously comes out of the Greenzweig area and so we've seen some very solid strong performance in that area.
That will translate through to reserves bookings.
The bigger feature is the commencement of production out of the range area.
The Bluestone pipeline is well under construction.
We expect to have that pipeline in service and operating around the end of November.
There was no setback except for just days waiting for rain to stop.
We didn't lose any forward progress on that from the storm.
So we expect to get that on and once we can get some production history associated with those wells we will be able to move forward.
We are seeing an improvement from compression out of the Greenzweig area about 25 million to 30 million a day.
That combined with some wells waiting to be completed this quarter and the startup of the Bluestone and the Lycoming area of production also around the end of November is the formula for getting us to 300 million a day out of -- exit rate out of Marcellus in total.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And lastly...
Let me add some to that.
Our puds that we booked this last year in the Marcellus were about 7.5 Bcf puds.
Those were all in the Bradford area I think what we call the Greenzweig area.
I expect that we will see some puds revisions on those.
When you start looking at that range area that we just now are beginning to hook wells up into a lot of what you can book depends on what you see in those wells.
So what could happen to us at year end we may not get as many puds booked as you would normally expect us because we haven't seen much production from the range area.
But I fully expect from all the tests that we've seen that will be a good area and that will grow as we go out onto the future.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And what are your current drilling completion costs in the Marcellus? The wells are averaging between 6.4 and 6.8 depending on location.
The newest Lycoming wells are obviously deeper and longer but we're in that range.
Our next question is coming from Scott Hanold from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Talk about the Marcellus a little bit.
Obviously your infrastructure is constrained right now but you do have plans to get some more online.
And it seems going forward I mean that's still really the governor on your growth there.
Is -- what other things can you do or you got other things you're doing to continually expand that? And is there always the opportunity to pay for other people's firm that they're not using? Well there's pipeline infrastructure constraints that are near term and that's represented in the Bluestone discussion and we are working very closely with the contractor and owner of that pipeline to get that on as quickly as possible.
But beyond that we have been building a portfolio of transportation capacity out of the Marcellus for some time.
And our production growth over time is matched to that transportation capacity.
And the numbers 300 500 and then growing beyond that are matched with firm and long-term and short-term firm transport and we are -- our team continuously looks at adding.
We added some additional capacity this last quarter.
I think it was 140 million a day through 3 different transactions.
And so we believe that we're solidly covered and we're continuing to look at opportunities to expand that.
And let me just add I know those who follow u closely we've given out in the past a little spreadsheet that showed our firm and there's a little step jump in 2013.
That has been smooth and if you want a new spreadsheet just shoot Brad an e-mail and he'll shoot you that spreadsheet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And my follow-up looking at your gas price outlook Steve obviously sub-$5 with constraints on even the potential for more activity as prices go up and the power generation switchback.
I mean how do you look at the Fayetteville in sort of that light if -- I don't know what your sort of near-term look is the next say 3 years? Where do you see activity there at the 400 450? Do you kind of maintain your activity that you're doing right now on the Fayetteville or would you increase that at a certain price point? I think from just a strategic standpoint we really started in 2011 trying to keep the Fayetteville Shale within its cash flow with a thought that in the not too distant future it could generate excess cash flow to apply to some other things.
And we do have a large backlog of wells to kind of what price we have out there.
So I think as you look into the future we will increase or decrease well count based on basically how much cash flow comes out of the Fayetteville Shale.
This year we're drilling about 400 wells.
We're not quite balanced.
As we look into the next year I can tell you we'll start the year running 7 rigs.
And if you ran 7 rigs all year that would be in the 350-type number well range again depending on how fast you're drilling those kinds of things.
So we will adjust it.
As price gets higher and there's more cash flow we'll drill more wells on the other side but I don't know how much lower we'll go from where we're at right now.
That's something we're talking about in our 2013 capital plans.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it looks like your Fayetteville Shale costs have come down nicely this quarter.
I mean do you anticipate more of that's going to happen with your more focused effort or wheres sort of the bottom on that cost in the basin? Well our wells have come down in the quarter a lot due to reduced vendor.
We've gone and consolidated vendors and we're seeing some reductions in cost there.
Our completion efficiency is up and we're really improving our work around that.
A big change that happened in the quarter was SWN sand.
We were using about between 80% and 90% of SWN sand across the Fayetteville.
We've now done some work and are able to use 100% of our SWN sand across the fields.
So there's some rather dramatic reductions associated with that.
The next tranche of savings comes from our pumping company that I mentioned earlier.
We'll pump a large number of wells next year.
The savings is somewhere between 150 000 160 000 per well that we pump.
And so you'll see further reductions there and then we'll continue to chase further optimization.
So I don't know -- I wouldn't speculate how far down it can go.
We've made some rather dramatic strides in this area and we'll continue to take those down.
And then let me just add one point.
Part of that $2.6 million was cost decreases on the server side and we have locked in our cost for 2013.
So we know what the base is and now we're working down from that base.
Our next question is coming from Hsulin Peng from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So regarding -- just kind of wanted to understand your capital allocation.
So one of the things I was trying to understand is the -- for your midstream assets would you -- how do you think about monetizing that midstream assets to find your New Ventures play going forward or would you rather bring an outside partner if needed? You know each plays going to be different.
Certainly we have besides our current balance sheet and the fact that we haven't borrowed in our borrowing line we have some other assets that we could monetize in some way and midstream some of those other assets.
And then you certainly have whatever you have a discovery on whatever you're doing something on you can sell part of it or bring a partner in part of that in.
It just depends on how big how fast you're ramping up and what generally you found.
So I can't really say what we do with midstream or what would be first.
I think the big key is whatever the cheapest funding is that's the one we'll look at doing first and then we'll go from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And second question is G&amp;A this quarter was really good.
And I'm just wondering if you would think if this quarter run rate a good indication for future G&amp;A expenses or if there's something unusual this quarter that made it much lower.
Hi this is Craig Owen.
Ill take that.
The G&amp;A we did have a good quarter for G&amp;A.
I wouldn't expect that would be the go-forward run rate.
I'd probably look at the year-to-date G&amp;A $0.25 $0.26 or a little bit higher.
We had some benefits in the quarter and some nonrecurring items nothing too substantial but the $0.21 we experienced in the quarter probably not a good go-forward rate more around $0.25 $0.26.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then last question the Brown Dense acreage went down a little bit this quarter and I'm just wondering if you can help us understand why the acreage number went down.
Sure and what she's referring to I think we reported a little over 500 000 acres this quarter versus what I think was 540 000 or 550 000 last quarter.
The main difference there is on the far northwest corner of the play there is some acreage that we'd actually acquire from EOG that we let expire and then we do have some acreage we double counted but the biggest thing is we dropped some acreage on the far northwest corner.
Our next question is coming from Charles Meade from Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on one of the wells that you talked about in your prepared remarks.
I think it was the Dean well in the Brown Dense that you said.
Did I get these numbers right? 200 barrels a day and 1.2 million out of 12 feet of perfs? That's correct.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious is -- did you complete that in a different part of the formation? Is there something -- or did you have a different frac design? I know you talked about using linear gels.
But the question is is there something different you did there because that looks like a really encouraging rate.
There are some things we did different.
As Bill mentioned in his comments the 2 vertical wells we drilled the first thing we want to do is determine if there was extent to the high pressure area; there was.
But the other thing we found in -- and if you remember back to our very first well one of the issues we had was trying to get enough vertical to extend our fracs.
We found as we evaluated the BML well that we still weren't getting the growth and height on our fracs that we were looking for.
So we tried several different kinds of fracs on both the Johnson and the Dean wells.
And in some cases they worked; in some they didn't.
In the Johnson well I can tell you 2 of the 5 I think we've done so far we screened out early because the frac that we're trying didn't work but as we got towards the end of frac-ing in the Johnson well we came to what I'll call a new formula.
There's nothing magic about it; just kept tweaking.
And it looks like we're getting better vertical height.
We tried that on the Dean well and well there's 3 intervals we frac-ed -- on that well 3 separate fracs and the perforations as we said weren't much perforation.
There's about a 200-foot interval.
It wasn't anything unusual over any of the other wells in the area.
But when you look at the fracture area that it looks like it's contacted versus in the BML well that has over 4 000 feet it's got almost 60% of the same fracture area.
So it looks like we're starting to learn something on the fracture stimulations.
And that well has held up very well.
The numbers he quoted were on a 10/64 choke and we still have high 6 000 pounds bottom-well floating tubing pressure -- of bottom-hole pressure.
So that well gives us encouragement and we're using a variation of that.
For the most part we're trying some things on the horizontal we're frac-ing right now.
But we're using a slight variation of what we did on the Dean on this horizontal that we're working on now.
So I can't say it's the answer but I can say that we're getting closer just by working on the fracture simulation.
And it looks like we're getting a little better height than we were in any of the other fracs we've done today.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's all very helpful Steve.
It sounds like -- am I right in guessing that this is just a kind of a combination of sand load and pump rate and some chemistry that you...
It's just mix.
And when you put the sand in and how much water you put there's nothing magical about the fluids themselves.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then it also looks to me like you guys have set up a unit for the Johnson and Dean to be 1 280.
Is that -- are you guys committed to doing long laterals there? Or is that just an option for you at this point? Just count that as an option right now.
I don't know what the ultimate lateral lengths will be.
Certainly if you remember our general game plan was from the first to the later wells we're going to go from relatively short 3 000-foot and work our ways up to 9 000 feet -- or 12 000 feet.
That's somewhere in the game plan but if we get some of the encouragement in some other wells like we're seeing in the Dean it may not need that long a lateral.
So we're just going to have to work our way through that.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just to make sure I understand this right it's that Doles that you're going to complete with this kind of -- with your new frac recipe? Yes Doles is the ones thats completing right now is almost done.
There's a total -- originally went in wanted to do about 26 stages of frac.
I think we'll get 22 done and we're almost done with.
In the next couple of days we'll be done.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And that's using what you've learned from the Dean wells? Yes what weve learned regard from Dean and Johnson and any other wells before.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> But the BML is the older version of that frac? The BML is the first well; has fracs much more like we did in the first 2 before it and there is a significant difference yes.
Our next question is coming from Brian Lively from Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve just on the Marcellus you talked about having a smoother I guess infrastructure profile for 2013? On the call though could you maybe talk about when do you think you could actually get to 300 million a day? Is that still slated for the end of the year or do you have an opportunity to pull that forward maybe towards the midyear? We should get to 300 million a day exit rate by the end of this year.
We've got the wells in production behind pipe and the primary drivers waiting on the Bluestone pipeline to be complete.
We have the transportation the long-haul transportation arranged and committed.
So the restriction really is waiting on this piece of pipe.
And the segment we're waiting on is 9 miles long and it's got to connect us -- our business to TGP 300 and they're making some very solid progress.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then how will that build into 2013? Into 2013 we should reach -- we expect to reach 500 million a day by the end of '13 and so it will stair-step up in kind of a relatively smooth curve.
There's some front end sort of weather-related questions but those are just normal for any kind of development in this part of the country.
But really it's expected to be just a pretty steady ramp-up.
We'll drill -- we expect to drill probably about 100 103 wells across the field in 2013 based off of the comment Steve made earlier on 4 rigs and we've built that and their completions into that profile.
And we can -- like Steve said we've got a takeaway capacity graphic that we can send you.
And if you look at that graphic you have -- the ramp pretty much follows that graphic.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was confused.
I had thought that you guys were going to be at 300 -- that you were going to be kind of more contained through 2013 but it sounds like you're actually going to be...
Let me jump in.
Again if you look at our previous spreadsheet that we gave everyone there was a step where early in 2013 we jumped about 320 million -- a little over 320 million a day.
And then we had a flat period all the way until November where thats re-jumped up to 500 million.
Today that number at the end of third quarter 380 million.
At the end of the second quarter it's 435 million and that's 542 million at the end of the year.
So we smoothed that out.
So Brad will be happy to send you that and you can see how that looks.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
I'll follow up with him because it sounds like there's some bias upside to the numbers.
And just for me the last question on the Fayetteville.
The commentary about the Fayetteville being flat for the next couple of quarters just wonder if you guys could put some more context around that in the vein of what 2013 might look like.
Are you talking about flat through 2013? Are you talking about just flat maybe for the first half of the year? I'm not sure about the flat comment.
I think what I said was rig count.
Right now were running 7 rigs and we'll go into the year with running 7 rigs.
And if you ran 7 rigs for the entire year you'd have about 350 wells.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve I wanted to ask you a little bit about obviously you managed the business to the 1.3 kind of PVI target.
Obviously you've had a very big hedging tailwind so to speak where you've had some very attractive hedges.
But if you look on a year-over-year basis the level of hedging gains -- decreases relative to NYMEX and I think that's a $300 million $400 million kind of swing factor.
You do have obviously lower cost in the Fayetteville today $2.6 million a well plus you're drilling perhaps at prime locations.
So just trying to get a sense of how all that factors in to -- you've talked about maybe 350 wells but what youre thinking about the Fayetteville given the fact that you won't have as much hedging gains as in  in '12.
I think a couple of things there.
First off we are hedged as we talked about.
If we had flat production year-over-year it would be a little over 30% hedged and those are $5 hedges.
I wouldn't assume that those are the only hedges that we have for the year.
We're still looking and I think you may see some other hedges go on.
But really your question is 2013 budget and what's going to happen in 2013 budget and we're still working on that all the way to the point -- I'm not ready to say what we think the price will be in 2013 yet.
We have to sort that out.
So all of that obviously works into cash flow.
Cash flow obviously is partially driven by how much capital you have and you have to marry the 2 of those together and we're not quite there yet to say how many wells we're going to drill in each area.
The only thing that we've certainly committed to is because of the 2 new rigs we're adding.
Ones added already one will be added in the Marcellus that have long-term contracts on them.
We know the activity will go up in the Marcellus.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And Steve I wanted to maybe elaborate on the Marcellus.
You guys have commented on the growth on a gross basis.
Can you help us walk us through net of royalties what  where you expect your production to be because I think you have different working interest thinking about Susquehanna Counties versus Bradford County and just maybe give us a sense of where you expect to be on a net basis.
I think if you just think about it in general the Susquehanna Bradford area for the foreseeable future will almost be 100% working interest well.
I think were averaging this year 98% or something.
Later on there will be some -- and when I say later on a few years out there'll be some other wells that have some lower interest.
I think our average working interest if you look across all of our acreage is probably in the low 80% average working interest.
But for next year plus youre at almost 100% on the wells you're drilling.
And then in your nets you're about 82% to 83% nets.
So as you look out into 2013 I'd use an 82% number.
Research Division</strong> And final question Steve what are your thoughts obviously very tight infrastructure in the Marcellus about basis differentials in that marketplace.
So what are you seeing today? Well because we have firm capacity today we're seeing NYMEX pretty much flat.
Some months it's a couple cents above; some months a little bit low.
We have not seen anything we've had to do much as a blowout that you might have seen or heard earlier in the year in some of the other areas.
As we look out in the future we think that the Marcellus will pull away on the basis a little bit.
So our long-term planning is actually it widens and it's going to be a NYMEX minus some kind of a number but near term NYMEX flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I have to ask to be able to get that capacity to smooth out that what was the consideration that you had to do to get that firm transportation smooth out that  the pipeline capacity? It's the same we're paying for all of our transportation actually in some cases a little bit less.
What this is we buy firm.
Typically on a pipeline you're buying long-term firm.
In this case there were operators who can't supply their firm.
And for short periods of time some of these contracts we have are 6-month type contracts.
And all we're doing is buying from operators who couldn't use it.
So we're buying at their rate or lower than their rate because they were going to have to pay it one way or the other.
Our next question is coming from Dan McSpirit from BMO Capital Markets.
Turning back to the Brown Dense you speak to a path to commerciality.
If you could share with us the determining factors involved and the expected timing maybe in more definitive answer or color on a go or no-go decision in the Brown Dense.
And in answering that if you could share with us the current drilling complete cost for the latest batch of wells and what's expected going forward.
As you look out into the future there's -- I would put 2 things that we have to understand.
I think both of those we'll know a lot about in the next 3 months.
The first one and we talked about this in the past we haven't got a long production line on any of these wells.
And so we need to understand the shape of that production curve.
We do all of our economics based on an average Eagle Ford because of depth and pressure considerations but we haven't got ourselves an average production curve here yet.
And we'll put the 2 wells that Bill talked about on production this month.
We'll have by January 2.5 months of production on those or 2-plus months of production.
And when we add that to the testing we had earlier we'll be able to figure the shape of those curves.
The other thing we've already talked about you want to contact as much of the rock as you can and you're going to have to have vertical height on your fracs because you're looking at 350 foot to 400 foot interval.
And frankly on our first well we got about 25 foot to 30 foot height growth.
And even in this most recent one I talk about we're looking about 90 foot to 100 foot growth.
So we still need to do some things in the frac-ing side to get across more of the zone and contact more of the reservoir.
So we'll continue to work on the frac-ing.
Whatever we learn in this horizontal we're doing now we'll apply that and go out in the future.
So those are the 2 main things there.
As far as cost rather than go into the various costs in each well we do something internally where -- we call it the pacesetter.
We take the wells that we've drilled and whatever the best piece of that well was whether its the vertical part up whole or whether it's the horizontal or building the curve and we put that together and say we know we can do that.
And all we have to do is do it consistently and here's whats going to be.
And then from there we improve and we go from there.
On a pacesetter well let me just put it on days to drill this most recent well Doles well took us about 55 days to drill a pacesetter well.
Like I said one where we just did everything the way we've done and had success in the past on each of individual portion would be about a 35-day well for that same well.
And when you start talking about a 35- to 40-day well going back to my comments on the second quarter conference call you're talking about $10 million to $12 million-type wells.
The well we're on today on the Doles is above $12 million but it's not significantly above $12 million.
So we're in the range and we can see a way to get our costs down.
Let me also add on the economic side historically we've talked about the fact that we needed a certain rate and we threw out any gas.
We didn't worry about any of those kinds of things.
But if we can do a $12 million well -- to reach our 1.3 PVI that's our economic hurdle we need about 425 barrels a day of oil and about 4.2 million a day of gas when you count that in.
That's $80 oil LLS price and it is a little over $3 NYMEX price.
And you put the BTUs on that and the oil and that's the economics for that.
We have reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Thank you.
To wrap up things again I want to say how proud we are of the results of the quarter.
And I want to thank all of our employees for the hard work they've done to achieve these results.
Now we will continue to keep doing the everyday things that will add value and I talk about it on all the presentations.
I talk about it with our employees.
Our goal is never just to add value it's to add value-plus and give you something more.
And I think we've done that in the third quarter.
I also want you to know we're not comfortable.
We have several ideas on how to improve what we're doing in Fayetteville and Marcellus plays which will translate to better faster cheaper and ultimately more wells to drill over the life of the field.
It also means that we're going to keep that focus we talked about on the -- and discipline on doing everything with a 1.3 PVI economic objective.
And then when we look finally at our New Ventures team we're now generating tangible and new ideas that are needed to significantly impact our company.
We're going to have some more and expect some more ideas in 2013 but at the same time we're learning at a rapid rate about what makes each of our current plays work and we're very encouraged that in 2013 we'll provide at least one new development project for SWN so we can apply all those things we've learned in the Fayetteville Shale and Marcellus.
And with that I thank you again for listening today and have a wonderful weekend.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller President and CEO.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mueller you may now begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer;  Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our fourth quarter and year-end 2012 results you can find a copy of all this on our website www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control that are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the Forward-looking Statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Let's begin.
Our goal every year is to deliver more to our investors than our competition.
Internally we call this Value+ or V+.
2012 was another in a long string of years where we set new records developed new efficiencies and expanded both our producing areas and our New Ventures footprint.
Almost every day brought new challenges and I'm proud to say many of those challenges were converted to opportunities through the innovation and hard work of SWN staff.
Our production grew by 13% as a result from our wells in the Fayetteville Shale as they improved and our Marcellus production has begun to ramp dramatically.
We also recorded our second highest cash flow ever as we have made meaningful progress in lowering our cash costs during 2012 and the cash flow growth from our Midstream business continues its strong performance.
We began testing ideas in the Bakken in Montana and in Marmaton in Colorado and we reached a new milestone in the Brown Dense.
During the past 12 months it has contributed to some of those daily challenges but we're beginning to see a glimpse of how the Brown Dense might be successful and we're in the final stages of signing up a partner to help us to reach commerciality.
All indications are that 2013 will continue the string of adding Value+.
We'll drive down days and costs and ramp up production.
But we'll also continue to add more value to new exploration ideas new ways to approach how we work and new ways we enhance the communities where we work.
I will now turn the call over to Bill for more details on some of the Value+ in our operations and then to Craig for a recap of our strong financial position.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
To echo Steve's comments and reflecting on the extraordinary efforts of our outstanding team of industry professionals the company achieved several major milestones and accomplishments during the year which I want to share with you this morning.
Among these we expanded and advanced the company's prospective New Ventures opportunities including acquiring new acreage and commencing testing in several new plays in addition to the nearly 495 000 net acres of undisclosed ventures in our portfolio.
We grew our production to a new record of 565 Bcf equivalent in 2012 which is up 13% compared to 2011 results.
Our growth was driven by our 2 core operating areas.
In the Fayetteville Shale play we grew our production by 11% to 485 Bcf versus 2011 results.
From our efforts to grow our Marcellus business we more than doubled our production from 23 Bcf in 2011 to 54 Bcf in 2012 as we expanded our development in the play to all 4 acreage areas.
This growth more than offset the decline in our Ark-La-Tex production which included a reduction due to the sale of our Overton Field last year.
We continued to expand our Midstream business and we entered -- as we entered new producing areas.
We also reduced our production expenses and general and administrative expenses by $0.05 per Mcf equivalent across the company.
We booked 919 Bcf equivalent of reserves in 2012 and invested $1.9 billion.
The 33% year-over-year decrease in natural gas price decreased our proved reserves to approximately 4 Tcf equivalent from 5.9 Tcf equivalent in 2011.
As gas prices rise from the $2.76 per Mcf price that was used in 2012 we know that many of these reserves that are written off at that price will naturally come back on our books over time.
Our strong focus on health safety and the environment resulted in continued improvement in HSE performance as well.
Let me speak a bit about the Fayetteville Shale.
In the Fayetteville Shale we placed 493 operated horizontal wells on production in 2012 resulting in gross operated production increasing from 1.9 Bcf of gas per day at the beginning of the year to 2.1 Bcf per day of gas at the end of the year.
Total proved reserves booked in the Fayetteville were approximately 3 Tcf down from 5.1 Tcf at the end of 2011.
Again downward price revisions were the main driver of our decline in reserves.
Our average PUD well in -- is 2.8 Bcf in 2012 compared to 2.4 Bcf in 2011.
Our operating efficiencies driven in part by our vertical services integration continues to improve in the Fayetteville Shale as our operated horizontal wells had an average completed well cost of $2.5 million per well an average horizontal lateral length of 4 833 feet and an average time to drill-to-total depth of just 6.7 days from reentry to reentry.
This compares to a well cost of $2.8 million with approximately the same lateral length that was drilled in about 8 days in 2011.
Of our total 493 wells placed on production during 2012 139 of those wells were drilled in less than 5 days.
In total we now have drilled 243 wells to date in 5 days or less.
We will continue to work to drive our costs lower and expect that our vertical integration and our 2 newly activated SWN frac crews will make another noticeable positive impact to our well cost in 2013.
We also saw higher average production on a per-well basis during 2012 as a result of the optimization efforts on our drilling portfolio.
Our average initial producing rates set new records at approximately 3.6 million cubic feet per day compared to last year's 3.3 million cubic feet average rate.
In the fourth quarter of 2012 we set a new record as our average rate approached 4 million cubic feet per -- of gas per day.
On the Midstream side our gas gathering business in the Fayetteville Shale continued to perform well and at December 31 was gathering approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day from 1 852 miles of gathering lines in the field compared to the gathering of approximately 2.1 Bcf per day just a year ago.
And switching over to the Marcellus our operation -- in our operation in Pennsylvania we more than doubled our total proved reserves in 2012 to 816 Bcf up from 340 Bcf booked at the end of 2011.
Our average PUD well is 7.6 Bcf in '12 compared to 7.5 Bcf in 2011.
And at December 31 we had a total of 72 wells on production including the initial wells in our Range in Lycoming producing areas which were first brought on production in the fourth quarter.
And as I've mentioned before we are now producing from all 4 of our core producing areas in the Marcellus.
We also have an additional 84 wells in progress in the Marcellus.
Our producing wells include 48 wells located in Bradford County 4 wells in Lycoming County and 20 in Susquehanna County.
Of the 84 wells in progress at year-end 33 were either waiting on completion or waiting to be placed to sales including 5 in Bradford County 4  in Lycoming County and 24 in Susquehanna County.
Wells in our Range area where we're waiting on a -- on pipeline infrastructure are performing as expected.
Our latest 4 wells on the Lycoming County area had IPs ranging from 9 to 12 million cubic feet a day of gas.
Our operated horizontal wells had an average completed well cost of $6.1 million per well an average horizontal lateral length of 4 070 feet and an average of 12 fracture stimulation stages in 2012.
And this compares to an average completed well cost of $7 million per well an average horizontal lateral length of 4 223 feet and an average of 14 fracture stimulation stages in 2011.
In Susquehanna County the southern portion of the Bluestone Pipeline was placed in service into TGP 300 on November 28.
And the northern portion of the pipeline is expected to be placed in service into the Millennium line in late first quarter.
We also expect compression in our Range Trust area to be operating by midyear as currently we continue to produce against pipeline pressures in excess of 1 000 psi.
We're continuing to ramp our Marcellus business in line with available cash -- gas transportation infrastructure and we expect our gross operated production to increase dramatically from our Marcellus properties throughout 2013 from approximately 300 million cubic feet per day at December 31 to over 500 million cubic feet per day by the end of the year.
Moving on to New Ventures at December 31 we held 3.8 million net undeveloped acres of which 2.5 million net acres were located in New Brunswick Canada and the remaining approximately 1.3 million net acres were located in the U.S.
In New Brunswick we received 2 one-year extensions to our exploration license agreements in December which extended our license to search until March 31 2015.
We've also applied for an additional 1-year extension that would extend our exploration license agreements until March 31 2016 if granted by the province.
In 2013 we intend to acquire approximately 130 additional miles of 2D seismic data in New Brunswick with first drilling scheduled for sometime in 2014.
In February we reached a tentative agreement for a joint venture in our Lower Smackover Brown Dense play in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana that includes cash upfront as well as a 3-year term carry on accelerated investment activity.
Our plan includes more active drilling program in the Brown Dense in 2013.
To date in the Brown Dense we have drilled and completed 6 wells and each successive well has shown an increase in initial flow rate.
Our latest well the Doles well located in Union Parish Louisiana had an initial flow rate of 435 barrels per day of 55- to 57-degree condensate and more than 2.5 million cubic feet per day of 1 250 Btu gas.
After flowing more than 90 days the Doles well exhibits producing behavior similar to the BML well.
We've now spudded our seventh well the Dean horizontal well located in Union Parish Louisiana.
We believe to -- we plan to drill and complete a 3 000-foot horizontal lateral with initial results expected from this well in the second quarter.
This well will advance our further understanding of frac geometry and appropriate landing point as well as cost performance.
We're learning more about the play with each successive well and we are focused on analyzing various methods to optimize our fracture stimulation with a focus on increasing reservoir contact area.
Our results along our path to commerciality continue to progress and we continue to believe the size of the prize is significant.
We remain encouraged about this play and I look forward to updating you on our efforts to bring this idea to commerciality in the coming months.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin oil play in Eastern Colorado we've leased approximately 302 000 net acres and have tested 2 wells in the area.
Our first well encountered an oil cut of around 5% which was lower than we expected and is currently shut in.
However our second well the Staner tested 7 different intervals and we encountered an oil cut of over 40% in the vertical portion of the Marmaton.
We've reentered the Staner and are currently drilling a 3 400-foot lateral in the Marmaton.
We plan to complete this well during the second quarter of this year.
In 2012 we began production of our first test well targeting the Bakken formation in Sheridan County Montana.
This well achieved a peak rate of 171 barrels of oil per day and has been producing for over 4.5 months.
We continue to monitor the production decline in this well in addition to watching the activity around us as there will be several more well results from other operators in the area over the next 6 months.
We plan to spud our second well in Sheridan County in late second quarter targeting the Three Forks objective.
Finally among the several new plays we entered in 2012 we began accumulating acreage in the Paradox Basin in Utah.
We continue to lease in this area and this is all we plan to say about this idea at this time.
We remain sharply focused on adding value for each dollar we invest and we are very excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for us in 2013 and beyond.
I will now turn it over to Craig Owen who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
As Steve has mentioned our production growth and low-cost structure were strong in 2012 but did not fully overcome the impact of low natural gas prices on our earnings and cash flow.
Excluding the noncash ceiling test impairments and the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts we reported net income of $485 million or $1.39 per share for the calendar year compared to $638 million or $1.82 per share in the prior year.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was approximately $1.6 billion the second highest level in our history but down 9% to 2011 due to lower gas prices.
Operating income for our E&amp;P segment was $528 million excluding the noncash items compared to $825 million in 2011.
For the year we realized an average gas price of $3.44 per Mcf which was down 18% from $4.19 per Mcf in 2011.
We currently have 185 Bcf or approximately 29% of our 2013 projected natural gas production hedged through fixed-price swaps at a weighted average price of $5.06 per MMBtu.
We also have added 55 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2014 at an average price of $4.43.
Our hedged position combined with the cash flow generated by our Midstream gathering business provides protection on approximately 50% of our total expected cash flow in 2013.
Our detailed hedge position is included in our Form 10-K filed yesterday and we continue to monitor gas markets and will be looking for opportunities to add to our hedge position.
We are proud that we were able to keep our cash costs very low in 2012 and our cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in our industry with all-in cash operating costs of approximately $1.20 per Mcfe in 2012 compared to $1.24 in 2011.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net interest expense and taxes.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.80 per Mcfe in 2012 down from $0.84 in 2011 primarily due to lower compression and saltwater disposal costs associated with the Fayetteville Shale play.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.26 per Mcfe for the year down from $0.27 in 2011 and were lower due to decreased personnel costs per unit of production.
Taxes other than income taxes were $0.10 per Mcfe in 2012 down from $0.11 in 2011.
And the full cost full amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment increased to $1.31 per Mcfe compared to $1.30 last year.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment rose 19% to $294 million in 2012 and EBITDA for the segment was $339 million also up 19%.
The increase was primarily due to the increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus Shale plays.
We invested approximately $2.1 billion in 2012 and currently plan to invest about $2 billion in 2013.
At year-end 2012 our debt-to-total booked capitalization ratio was 35% up from 25% at the end of 2011 and that was driven by our noncash ceiling test impairments.
Additionally our total debt-to-trailing EBITDA ratio was about 1x.
Our liquidity continues to be in excellent shape as we had nothing drawn on our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility at year-end 2012 and we also had $62 million of cash and restricted cash on our books.
We currently expect our debt-to-booked capitalization ratio at the end of 2013 to be approximately 34% to 36%.
In summary while we were not able to entirely avoid the impact of the 30% drop in NYMEX gas prices we generated strong cash flow.
We were able to keep our cost extremely low and exit the year in great shape with regards to our balance sheet and liquidity.
To echo Steve's comments we look forward to 2013 and believe the combination of our Fayetteville and Marcellus assets along with New Ventures ideas will provide Southwestern with the ability to add significant value for many years to come.
That concludes my comments.
And now we'll turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the Marcellus looking at the chart that you had in your press release it would appear that your 12-stage wells are trending around your 10 Bcf type curve but I think you highlighted here that you booked those locations at 7.6 Bcf actually a lower number for Susquehanna County.
Could you just talk to where you are and your reserve engineers are in your level of confidence in what the ultimate EURs would be and where they're heading in the Marcellus and how that could change if at all over the year? I'll try and tackle that a little bit.
We talked -- and I'll just talk in broad terms then we get more specific.
We talked at our -- throughout the year that especially the Susquehanna acreage we needed to have some production on it to even book the wells that we drilled in Susquehanna let alone the PUD wells that were out there.
We only had about 1 month total of production.
So whether you call it engineering or not engineering we just didn't have much data to be able to do much with that.
And so when we had that average for our various wells out there of 7.6 Bcf certainly Susquehanna and I can say the same thing about Lycoming with only 3 wells in it and a little less than 2 months of production fall in that category.
So the -- what basically happened on the PUDs we had we had about 73 total PUDs.
52 of those were on our Bradford County area that we've been drilling in in the last couple of years.
And the average on that is above the 7.6.
We have wells over 15 Bcf but that's where the high average part of it is.
There were 15 wells in -- actually in Susquehanna County there's about 18 wells total that are PUDs.
And there were 3 wells in Lycoming PUDs.
The range on those wells were as low as 5 and never got much above 6.
So when you put that whole mix together is where you get to that 7.6 Bcf.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then separately can you talk strategically with regards to any interest if at all in acquisitions how many fill us in [ph] -- if at all that could be and then where you stand on Midstream monetization? The acquisition question goes into 2 categories.
We're not actively looking for corporate deals buying producing assets those types of things.
But there's certainly that new area that maybe the New Ventures group spotted that you really can't get into by leasing and you might be able to acquire something to get into it.
There is expanding potentially in areas we have.
For instance if something would come up near something we're doing in Marcellus.
So we do have an acquisition effort but it would be very very targeted and would be specifically to our talents and to us trying to expand our value and to expand our footprint in certain areas.
As far as Midstream monetization I think Craig mentioned Midstream this year along with the hedges we have basically hedge our cash flow 50%.
We like that.
We like that -- almost any price environment.
We certainly like it in the price environment we've had in 2012 and starting 2013.
So I wouldn't expect us at this point in time to do much as far as a monetization standpoint.
We like where it's at.
It's producing well and it's got great economics.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly looking at the Brown Dense wells on the production from -- in the first 100 to 120 days does that give you guys enough data to get close to deeming them commercial? And if not what would well cost need to be versus current costs or IPs need to be to be able to deem that commercial at this point? So we're progressing as we noted in our -- my comments.
We're progressing each well forward in terms of additional production coming online and productivity coming out of these wells.
We're also working toward -- to drive down the costs and we've made some very good progress on the completion and drilling side to bring those costs down.
Our target range was to really get -- try to get CapEx in these wells to about $10 million plus or minus and about 400 barrels a day of condensate to achieve the level of production and the new level of economics that we're after.
As we look through the different wells -- portfolio that we have we're making steady progress towards that.
We have another horizontal well that has just been spud that we've designed and are setting up to be able to try to achieve that level of cost.
We still have some science in our wells that are allowing us to study this but when you net the science out of the -- of those net well program and really look at development well program I think that we're making some solid progress.
How many more wells we'll need to be able to do that I think is one of our uncertainties.
But I can tell you that the team is pretty optimistic that we're beginning to crack the code on some of those.
Fracture height continues to be the major -- or an issue that we're working on and so we're putting a lot of energy into that at this point.
And let me just add to that.
We think we can see a path that can get us to commerciality but we're not there yet.
And the reason we think we can see that path is in the 6 well the fractures themselves frac-ed easier than the previous wells that we had out there.
We got all the fractures away.
But as Bill said we didn't get the fractures across the entire zone and yet have got some decent production out of it.
So we're starting to be able to see a path that if we can get fractures extended across the zone and we've got some ideas on how to do that it will take us several wells to figure that out but if we get fractures across the zone that we'll certainly have the ability to be commercial.
So it'll take us some wells but we're excited still about the project.
Our next question is coming from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could push a little bit more on the Smackover Brown Dense.
Steve when you step back and look at the play do you sense there's more work to be done to bring down costs or work the geology? So where do you think you've progressed the most? And where do you see the upside your optionality to get you to that economical level? Well the push is everywhere.
The -- if you think about 6 to 9 months ago we had just run into the high pressure that we had.
Since then we've done a lot of reprocessing.
We think we can see the general outline of that on our seismic.
But we need some wells to prove that we actually tied the seismic in and that the geology looks like it's the way we think it's going to be.
And then on the cost side as Bill said we're working our way down.
If you take individual intervals of the wells we've drilled to date and say we do the best that we've done already that's where you get to hit something just over $10 million number.
So we think it's accomplished -- able to accomplish that we haven't done it yet in a well and I don't think we're going to do it in the next couple.
It'll take us a little bit of time to get down there.
So it's going to be a combination of several things: how we frac it learning more about the geology and the -- keep driving down the cost.
But those are all things we've done in the past on our plays so it's just a matter of working our way through that.
Our next question is from the line of Gil Yang of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Could you comment on the nature of the downward performance revisions that you talked about in the year? We can.
Most of those downward revisions as you see in some of the tables were in the Fayetteville Shale.
And they're basically for the same reason.
We if you remember in the last 1.5 year or so spent a lot of time working with downspaced wells trying to figure out what the right spacing were.
We continue to integrate that work together.
And as we integrated that work together we actually changed a little bit of the shape of the curve in the long life end of it at the very end of it where you're starting to see a pressure interference between wells.
And we've done a lot of modeling to understand that.
In layman's term what we basically did was take a well shape that had 2 components to it that had a initial hyperbolic with some kind of terminal rate on it.
We made it into a 3-segmented curve.
And as we did that it changed some of our far end reserves on that curve.
On the PDP portion of that there's about 225 Bcf that was part of that change because of that.
And then on the PUD side it gets a little bit tenuous and whether you call it price revisions or if you call it revisions that are -- or performance revisions.
But on the PUD side we made that revision to that based on what we assume the pressure per grade is going to be out long life.
And then we applied the price to it.
And when we did that the wells fell uneconomic.
And we had -- internally we talked about "Is that a price revision or is that a performance revision?" We wanted to stick with what we've done historically.
Historically we've called that a performance revision.
So there's about 135 Bcf of that that falls in that.
There's a performance revision there but then the price drove it underneath the curve.
And I'd add on the first 2 of those categories that since they are such late life revisions that the PV impact is minimal on those.
Inc</strong> Sure I appreciate that detail.
The 2.8 B that you booked for the PUDs then -- for the new PUDs includes that new type? Yes.
Inc</strong> Right.
Yes.
Okay every well we'll book and every well we'll do analysis on will have that kind of analysis on it.
And we'll keep refining that analysis too.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Actually in -- I was going to ask how you picked that -- the Marmaton and your DJ well but I think you guys answered that in your prepared comments when you said it had the 40% oil cut.
But I'm curious can you maybe give some more detail on what kind of rate you got out of the Marmaton in that vertical completion and if you put a frac on it? And what would be a successful rate for you in that 3 400-foot lateral? I'll jump in and just mention a couple of broad things and Bill can go into some more detail.
On all of the zones that we test in that vertical they were just perf-ed and put a little bit of acid on it.
So there weren't any fracture simulations.
And we only opened those zones up for a few days.
Saw oil in some of the other zones but obviously the Marmaton was better.
And Bill can go into more in the Marmaton.
When we looked in the Marmaton in the -- well in the second -- in the first well we actually frac-ed and -- or completed into 2 areas.
And we got some Virgil [ph] water in that well as well.
So the oil cut in the first well was very low really below 20%.
We anticipated 40%.
When we moved to the second well in the Staner vertical is where we did not get into the Virgil [ph] and managed to pick up the higher oil saturation from both the cores and from swabbing the well.
Peak rate in the first well as you asked was 171 barrels a day but we had 600 barrels of water.
So that well just really didn't -- it gave us some test data but not much else.
As we go forward now trying to complete this lateral in reentering the Staner I don't have off the top of my head the economic numbers for that.
But certainly we're pretty encouraged by what we saw in the vertical section.
I think a nice assumption here is we need about double that rate to get there and that -- so we really could get a 40% oil cut.
Now just to the east of us there are commercial wells and there's been several wells that are in the progress of drilling now or have been drilled recently that have those kinds of rates on them.
The highest one was 1 000 barrels a day but there's now 3 or 4 over there with 300- to 400-barrel-a-day rates.
And so that's the starting point for us then we can see we'll go from there.
Your next question comes from the line of Abhishek Sinha of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just have a quick question on Fayetteville.
I was wondering like how do you see Fayetteville wells performing from here? Do you see any room for improvement in lateral lengths going forward? Going forward right now in 2013 we're testing a number of -- our testing pattern is much more broad than -- on a comparative basis in 2012.
So we have a -- since we are in some relatively untested areas the lateral length opportunities are greater.
And so we -- you can expect to see depending on the geography and the well mix lateral lengths stretching out a bit.
Coming with that is some -- the fact that we're going to be testing in some new areas that we really haven't had a lot of production history in.
So the IPs will vary.
And it -- and they do vary by geography.
So if you'll recall back in the fourth quarter we were very very focused on a very specific set of core best wells.
And as you -- as we predicted and as you saw the IPs came up.
The lateral lengths on those were up a bit but they are -- they are limited by the units and the previous drilling.
In the going forward path we're -- results are early in our kind of new program but we do have and we are seeing wells to be a bit longer.
That's a pretty broad mix.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett [ph] of Bernstein Research.
Question on the New Ventures spend for 2013.
It's down to $200 million from about $300 million.
Is that a shift in strategy? Is that a sufficient level to find the acreage you want? Some comments? The easy answer to that is from a land standpoint it's almost identical year-over-year from -- in leasing.
The well count -- not necessarily well count.
The well capital is down a little bit but that's because we had assumed when we put our capital budget together that we were going to have a partner in the Brown Dense.
And that -- we'll talk more about details later but that's where the other capital is at.
Okay.
And then in the Paradox Basin are you chasing a shale play? Or is it a more conventional play? It is a -- I'd call a dirty rock play.
I don't know if you'll call it conventional or unconventional but it's not the classic conventional reservoirs that are out there.
And we're still leasing in that area so we've really kind of held off on talking much more about that until we -- we're finished.
Our next question is from the line of Biju Perincheril of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Steve question regarding the Fayetteville.
In the past you've given some well count information at different price stack.
Any update to that given the lower well costs and some of the interference that you had alluded to earlier in the call? There's not really any update to the well count.
If you think about our reserve report this year it's about 860 wells less than it was last year and last year you had $4 price on it.
So we've always talked about the fact that you've got a curve that increases from $3 to $4.
Once you get to $4 our average works at that point in time.
And it really hasn't changed anything on that portion of it.
As far as the interference I don't want to leave anyone with the impression that we're worried about the near-term interference or even worried about the interference.
So all we've done is now we've got some longer life.
We've got some of our wells up to 2 years' length of time on them that we've been able to pressure-model large areas of the field.
And as we pressure-model those fields it -- the curve doesn't just make the nice smooth curves that you normally think about in the overall prices.
And we had to break it up in a little more segments to make that model work out there.
And so as the pressure gradients hit later in life it has a little bit different shape to the curve and that's what happened.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And in the Marcellus can you talk about what you have in the pipeline as far as increasing your takeaway capacity there? I know in the past you've talked about this is an asset that you might get to what half a B a day or so.
But it sounds like you can get there by the end of this year if not early '14.
But can you talk about what's the capacity that you have there to ramp up production even higher? Well today in the Marcellus we -- I'll separate Lycoming out because it's kind of under a separate arrangement.
Today we've got about 300 million a day of firm capacity that we can use and some interruptible that we are using to move gas out.
And by this time next year we will have 500 million a day of firm capacity.
In fact we've already secured it in place and ready to go.
I think I commented earlier but -- that we picked up a number -- quite a large amount of capacity in the fourth quarter.
We got some additional capacity coming on in the '14 '15 time period.
And we'll be -- we're expecting and have agreements in place to get to 770 million a day of capacity by 2016.
There is additional interruptible capacity and our guys have been able to work that as we've ramped up.
And so for now we've got that transportation capacity covered.
And we'll ramp -- and we'll drill and ramp up the asset accordingly.
Our next question is coming from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
You guys did a great job disclosing well results by quarter as the Fayetteville moves forward.
Do you have any plans or can you provide the same format for the Marcellus? And are there areas that move into development mode? We've been talking about that.
We're not quite -- the thing [ph] about the Marcellus last year all we've really had was Bradford County.
But I think you'll start seeing us do something different at the end of this quarter with a little different presentation.
I don't know exactly how that's going to look but we'll try to get either by area within the Marcellus or just like we did in the Fayetteville where we say "Here's what we did each quarter" and start that same chart we had in the Fayetteville.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool that'll be great.
And then Bill you mentioned the Staner well and I just wanted to understand.
You tested several intervals.
What was the test rate for the zone that you elected to drill horizontally? Or was it the one that had the -- did it have a higher oil cut than the 40%? Well in the -- it tested 10 to 20 barrels of oil a day and that was the 40% cut.
And that was in the Marmaton part of that well.
We saw some oil odor in the core because we had that.
There was some fluorescence.
So it encouraged us enough to go in and do it and reenter the well which we've already started and drill a 3 400-foot lateral to really better define that productivity in the Marmaton.
And again I'll just remind you that was a -- all the tests were perforations with a little bit of acid.
No frac.
So all we were trying to do was just see really does it have oil in it and if you could get a little bit of feel for what the oil cut would be.
Your next question is coming from the line of Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research.
On this joint venture can you articulate some of the benefits that we might anticipate? And when might a formal agreement be reached? The -- we're hoping within the next 60 days.
But we can talk about it in more detail.
And I think the benefit is like any other joint venture you get to help share some of the risks and you get someone to help with some of the capital part of it.
So that's the major benefits.
We'll go into more detail once we can talk about who it is and what the shape of the overall agreement is.
Would you say it would lead to a lot more wells in '13 and '14 than what sort of you had roughly indicated in your preliminary guidance for the New Ventures effort this year? We really can't talk about that right now.
As I say we're just -- we need to get that final agreement then we can talk about it.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Turning to Fayetteville Shale you did a pretty good job of whittling down well costs.
How low can you all go as you walk through 2013? And when you step back and look at your well economics relative to sort of that cost curve you talked about between $3 and $4 how much improvement could you see that if you can bring costs down another tier? Well first of all entering into -- or ending 2012 we added our own fractionation fleet actually 2 of them to do pumping services for our Fayetteville wells.
So half of our wells that will be frac-ed in the coming -- in this year will be frac-ed by our own pumping company.
That brings about $150 000 per well that is frac-ed by our services company to the table.
We're looking at additional time-to-drill improvement.
We're already drilling faster with our drilling company than even what we finished the year with and what we thought we were even starting this year with.
So you'll see some -- you can see some improvements in time certainly improvements in performance.
We're using 100% of our own sand for a full year now so that brings some additional -- across all of the acreage that we're drilling.
Last year we had a bit of a third-party sand in that mix.
And so we're expecting our savings per well to come up quite a bit from last year.
I really don't have an exact number that we're -- we've got to put out there but I think there is room for improvement.
And I say that in the context of a great team of people who are chasing this.
And that's their goal is to improve it.
So there's room for improvement and we'll be showing you some of that examples as we go through this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
And so that's incremental improvement from the $2.3 million you all saw in the first -- fourth quarter? So I mean could you start working down to -- I mean is $2 million per well something theoretically you guys could get to in say a year or so? Well the market -- for the wells that are frac-ed by others until we expand -- until we look at whether we want to expand that and the market rates for the outside services that's difficult to say.
I think some of our contracts are tied to commodity prices.
And as those commodity prices move back up you may see some pressure on the other side.
So can we reach $2 million a well? We've gotten this far.
There are certainly opportunities there.
Can I commit to that at this point? Probably not.
And then I think just to remind you in 2013 we've guided to actually a high number.
We've actually guided to over $2.6 million because we are drilling some longer laterals and will have higher stage -- stages of fracs on average.
This year we had about 12 I think it was total stages and it'll go 13 to 14 next year.
A year ago I got asked that question.
And my comment was I don't know if we can get much below a low 6 number.
And we've had a couple of months here where we've been below 6.
So I haven't been a really good predictor of how low we can go.
I can tell you that when you're drilling less than 5 days there is no room for slipup at all.
So I'm kind of in the back of my mind saying "Well somewhere around 5 days is probably the limit." But as Bill said they keep taking days down and keep taking costs down.
So I just look forward to next year to see if my predictions are wrong and they've taken more out of it.
And we test quality as well.
And certainly the team is producing quality wells while they're driving these days down.
So we're getting them on both sides.
Our next question is from the line of Marshall Carver with Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes on the Marcellus it seemed like your PUD bookings there are pretty conservative.
If the wells end up being bigger than what you're modeling would -- and you start to bob against takeaway with fewer wells what would you all do there? Would you just build the number of wells that are drilled but not on production? Would you produce at restricted rates? Would you slow spending? Or would -- do you think you'd be able to find some additional capacity? How would that play out over this year? There's 2 pieces to that.
The -- we have kind of designed our program to follow the curves that Bill talked about earlier.
Certainly you can sell into the daily market and that all goes with what your perception of the price is and what kind of basis issues you might have.
So that's a decision we just have to watch on a regular basis.
But your basic question was if the wells are much better than we had projected what do we do? At least short term we back off on capital and don't drill as many wells.
And then if there's a significant amount of overage on the production side of it we go find some more capacity.
And right now the reason I say you back off in the short term right now there's no obvious large amount of capacity you can buy.
So you'd have to build something and that's a 2-year process.
So I think as you think about 2013 if we're better wells we'll just do a little bit less capital in 2013.
And we'll make a decision later in the year that we have to get more pipeline and accelerate in 2014 and 2015.
And now that all of our areas are connected up to various pipelines we do have some portfolio mix opportunities as well shifting drilling from one of the areas to another.
And some of our fields are dual-connected to 2 major pipelines so you get more optionality in that place as well.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Robert Christensen Buckingham Research.
I think the bigger question that you've articulated on the Lower Smackover Brown Dense Steve has been decline rates.
Are they going to be exponential or hyperbolic? And how many days of production do you think is needed to envision the shape of the curve so to speak? You have a well out there the Dean which has been on for 110 days and we get to a point where we may look at that.
What do you think? Certainly every day you're getting a little bit more information.
We've always said that the low side of that is 3 to 4 months and we need at least 6 6-plus months.
So we're definitely on the low side of understanding that now.
But we're not discouraged by what we've seen to date.
I can't pound the table with -- when I say we're not discouraged by the shape of the curve.
We're not discouraged by the shape of the curve.
The real key to us is learn a little bit more whether it takes another 3 months or 4 months to figure out the shape better and then we know we're not contacting the entire reservoir.
So how do you contact the entire reservoir? Is there a difference in your mind or your knowledge of frac-ing a well in the Dean and getting the vertical sense good frac height versus a horizontal well? What does -- what might be the differences? There -- a lot of things could be happening.
We don't know what is happening though.
And that's this well we're drilling right now that we just moved a rig on to is on the same pad with the Dean will land at the same interval that the Dean vertical well frac-ed in and we'll be able to compare the differences between there.
But when you're  frac-ing a vertical well the force fields are different than a horizontal well so that there's -- there will be differences.
We just don't know what those are and that's part of what this -- we're going to be doing with the next well.
Coming back to the exponential hyperbolic can we read into the Dean if -- as we get more data over the next several months? We've got it plotted here in our offices and not comfortable about talking about it until more data.
But is that potentially the one well that could answer this question first? I don't know.
I don't know that one well answers the question.
So certainly the -- it helps us with all of the various things we're doing to get to the answer.
But I can't say that it's the key.
It certainly has some different characteristics and we need to learn about it.
And really each of the wells has some things we've done in them that's a little bit different than we're learning from.
So if I knew which was -- the key was to unlock we'd be there.
So we're just trying to figure out how to do that.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Thank you.
To wrap things up I want to thank all of our employees for the truly innovative and hard work they've done to meet this year's challenges.
Early on I mentioned Value+.
And you've heard a lot about Value+ from both Bill and Craig and in our discussion on the Q&amp;A today.
One of the things I want to remind you is that the portfolio of projects give you value.
It's our employees that really give the + part of that.
And that + part is both for our shareholders or the environment and the communities we work in.
As we look out into 2013 there's going to be a lot of other things that's going to happen this year.
And for the first time in many years we've got another project the Marcellus which will share the spotlight with the Fayetteville Shale.
And it's not because the shale -- Fayetteville Shale is either getting old or slowing down it's simply that we've been able to add Value+ by adding the Marcellus into the system.
We'll continue to march forward trying to make the Brown Dense commercial.
But that's only a small part of our exploration program.
Again there is much more.
2013 will be the first year of many many years to come.
We'll be testing about 1 million acres per year of new ideas as we go through.
There's Colorado Montana we mentioned the Paradox Basin all part of that 490 000 other acres.
And then don't forget New Brunswick where we have 2.5 million acres with [ph] seismic this year and look forward to drill something in 2014.
And then finally from a Value+ standpoint I want to remind everyone that we're going to continue doing things right.
And that means being safe reduce our operational footprint and reduce the water we use and keep the air we breathe clean.
Now with that I thank you for listening today.
That concludes our teleconference.
Thank you.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy First Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller.
Thank you.
Mr.
Mueller you may begin.
Thank you and good morning to all of you and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick our Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you've not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding the first quarter 2013 results you can find a copy on our website www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the Forward-Looking Statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's get on with the call.
It was a very good quarter.
Our production grew year-over-year 11% and our costs continued to decrease resulting in the strongest cash flow in a first quarter of our company's history.
Since the end of the first quarter gas prices have improved and our production in Marcellus has started to grow dramatically.
As a result we have raised our production guidance in the latter half of the year.
Earlier this week we announced the acquisition of 162 000 additional acres in the Marcellus.
Because it will take time to fully understand all the infrastructure needs our acquisition analysis assumed little activity on the acreage in 2013.
Be assured we will quickly analyze how best to integrate this acreage into our current program and we'll update you later in the year regarding how we'll make changes to our Marcellus because of this acquisition.
Many have asked over the past several weeks if due to the recent run-up in gas prices we will increase our capital program.
We certainly are encouraged by the increasing better gas fundamentals.
But except for this acquisition we do not currently plan to accelerate our activity levels.
So while we're enjoying the recent increase in gas prices and the growing production we will continue to be disciplined in our capital investments focused on lowering our cost focused on delivering more throughout the rest of the year.
I will now turn the call over to Bill for more details on the operations and then to Craig for a recap of our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
We achieved several key milestones in the first quarter which I want to share with you this morning.
As Steve said we grew our production by 11% compared to the same period in 2012.
In addition we continued to improve drilling times lower our cost and we're seeing PUD reserves begin to return to books -- up to our books due to price.
Our strong focus on health safety and the environment resulted in continued improvement in HSE performance.
We did experience some early challenges during the quarter specifically due to the timing of getting wells online in our Marcellus area.
Typical minor bottlenecks created by rapid activity are now behind us as a result of the efforts of our team in Pennsylvania and our operational ramp is already showing results.
Since I mentioned Marcellus let me begin there.
We got off to a slower start than we had planned due to various timing and logistical delays for getting wells connected to sales.
This was especially troublesome in January where we only put -- were able to put 2 wells on production.
However we adjusted and quickly resumed our ramp-up of the business and brought on to sales 19 additional wells by the end of the quarter.
We're hitting our full stride and we're back on pace in terms of production growth.
Our gross operated production is continuing to ramp up and has already reached 400 million cubic feet per day.
We are on plan to surpass 500 million cubic feet per day of gas by the end of the year.
Our Marcellus business will continue to grow in line with available gas transportation infrastructure and we currently have agreements in place that increases our firm transportation capacity out of the area to 757 million cubic feet per day of gas by 2015.
Back on the operations side as we move into new areas we continue to experiment with our stage counts and lateral lengths to optimize our wells.
We've averaged 17 stages per well in the first quarter compared to an average of 12 stages in 2012.
We completed tests on our Blaine-Hoyd well in southern Bradford County this quarter that included 32 stages in that completion.
This well had a peak 24-hour rate of 23.9 million cubic feet of gas per day and compares to nearby wells that were placed on production in 2013 with an average peak 24-hour rate of 10.1 million cubic feet of gas per day average lateral length of 4 229 feet and with 17 stages flowing up tubing only.
We know some shale formations have experienced long-term effects producing with such high early drawdowns so we'll continue to evaluate the technical and economic impacts of high-density high-rate production in the Greenzweig area as well as Susquehanna and Lycoming counties.
While I realize that each area is different geologically we will continue to experiment with our fracture stimulations lateral lengths and flow techniques to optimize our wells throughout the rest of 2013.
We have 18 more tests planned in this year.
I would also note that none of our Lycoming County or northern Susquehanna wells are aided by compression at this point.
So these wells are flowing against line pressures between 1 200 and 1 400 pounds per square inch.
Once compression is installed in the summer the wells in these areas will be able to flow against lower line pressure and produce at higher rates.
On the Midstream side our owned and contracted gathering business in the Marcellus was gathering approximately 359 million cubic feet per day of gas or about 100 miles of gathering lines in the field at March 31.
We're also very excited about our announcement earlier this week of 162 000 net acres we agreed to purchase near our existing position in Pennsylvania.
We are beginning to plan the integration of these properties into our program and evaluating where we will begin drilling in some of the new areas later on this year.
Our initial thought on this is that we would begin to drill 1 to 2 additional wells on this new acreage during the fourth quarter.
We move on to the Fayetteville Shale where we placed 102 operated horizontal wells on production in the first quarter at an average completed well cost of $2.1 million per well.
This is a record low well cost for us and is a testament to our strong team in Arkansas the vertical services integration we have in the field and our commitment to driving our costs lower.
We also set new -- a new record for average time to drill to total depth of just 5.4 days from reentry to reentry and placed 53 wells on production during the quarter that were drilled in less than 5 days.
This brings our total of wells that we have drilled in less than 5 days to 296 wells in the Fayetteville.
During the first quarter the initial production rates from these -- the wells drilled was at an average of 3.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
While these rates were lower than previous quarters in keeping with the rigor of our value-adding investing the resulting economic value of these wells more than exceeded our 1.3 PVI hurdle rates due to these lower average well costs.
Our company-operated frac services were up to speed faster and may -- and have already made meaningful impact to our overall well cost.
Our continuing optimization and testing of the drilling program is working and continues to deliver strong results.
In April we've already placed a number of strong wells on production in the eastern side of the play which have a -- had a peak initial production rate in excess of 3.5 million a day with several wells still climbing while cleaning up.
On the Midstream side our gas gathering business in Fayetteville continues to perform well and at March 31 was gathering approximately 2.2 billion cubic feet of gas per day from 1 859 miles of gathering lines in the field.
Moving on to New Ventures to date in the Brown Dense we've drilled 8 wells.
We remain encouraged after watching production flows from our BML and Doles wells over the past several months.
We are currently completing 21 stages that are planned in our seventh well the Dean horizontal and we'll test several different frac techniques to try to unlock more hydrocarbons from the formation.
Our eighth well the Sharp vertical is planned to be completed later this month.
We've also seen industry activity pick up in the area as several operators have requested new drilling permits and 7 unit filings have been approved for operators targeting the Brown Dense.
Now regarding our negotiations with a potential joint venture partner in the Brown Dense the period of exclusivity with our previously announced potential partner has lapsed.
And while an agreement may be reached with that party we are also engaged in discussions with other interested parties on joining us to work on this promising opportunity.
The lack of a joint venture partner will not slow our testing of the Brown Dense exploration program.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin oil play in Eastern Colorado we reentered and drilled a 2 000-foot lateral in our second well the Staner 5-58.
We're completing this lateral and have fracture-stimulated 5 out of a total of 16 planned stages.
The well started to flow back on April 13 and began to -- producing oil on the second day.
We will watch performance on these stages and then complete the remaining 11 stages in June.
In our other New Ventures in Montana we plan to reenter an existing vertical well in Sheridan County to test the Bakken and Three Forks unconventional potential in the second quarter.
We continue to lease our new ideas and hope to disclose at least one more of these by the end of the year.
So to close we remain sharply focused on innovating and adding value for each dollar we invest.
And I'm highly encouraged by the opportunity we have ahead of us in 2013 and I look forward to discussing our progress with you in future quarters.
I'll now turn the call over to Craig Owen who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
As Steve has mentioned we had an exceptional quarter driven by higher production volumes and lower costs.
Excluding the unrealized mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts we reported net income of $146 million or $0.42 per share for the first quarter compared to $106 million or $0.30 per share the prior year.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was approximately $426 million a record for discretionary cash flow generated in the first quarter and up 15% compared to last year.
Operating income for our Exploration and Production segment was $176 million up 53% compared to $115 million in the first quarter of 2012 again primarily due to higher production and lower costs partially offset by a slight decline in realized gas prices.
We realized an average gas price of $3.43 per Mcf during the first quarter which was down from $3.48 per Mcf in the first quarter of 2012.
We currently have 240 Bcf or approximately 50% of our remaining 2013 projected natural gas production hedged through fixed price swaps at a weighted average price of $4.71 per MMBtu.
We also have 233 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2014 at an average price of $4.41 per Mmbtu.
We continue to watch the gas markets and will look for opportunities to add to our hedge position.
Additionally we added a new line item to our income statement entitled commodity derivatives income loss to capture the mark-to-market impact of our derivative contracts that have not been qualified as cash flow hedges which includes our basis hedges call options sold for 2015 production and about 182 Bcf of our 2014 fixed price swaps that are associated with the call options.
Our cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in the industry with all-in cash operating cost of approximately $1.18 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $1.28 per Mcfe last year.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net interest expense and taxes.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.81 per Mcfe in the first quarter down from $0.83 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to lower saltwater disposal costs associated with the Fayetteville Shale play.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.21 per Mcfe down from $0.30 per Mcfe a year ago due to decreased information systems costs and adjustments to employee-related cost.
These adjustments are not expected to be recurring and we anticipate our G&amp;A costs will be in line with our previously issued guidance of $0.26 to $0.30 per Mcfe for the remainder of the year.
Taxes other than income taxes were also lower at $0.12 per Mcfe down from $0.13 a year ago.
And our full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment fell to $1.09 per Mcfe compared to $1.33 last year.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment rose 10% to $76 million during the quarter primarily due to increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville and Marcellus shale plays.
At March 31 2013 our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio was 36% essentially flat when compared to the end of 2012.
And our liquidity continues to be in great shape with only $35 million borrowed on our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility.
We currently expect our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio at the end of 2013 to be approximately 31% to 33% at current sort of prices.
In summary 2013 already looks like a record year for Southwestern Energy with strong cash flow generation and excellent balance sheet and a low cost structure.
We are ready to deliver even more value not only in 2013 but for many years to come.
That concludes my comments and now we'll turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly maybe going to the announcement you made on Monday first about the acquisition in the Marcellus can you walk us through maybe some of the lease terms associated with the 162 000 acres or some of the expiring rapidly? What portion -- you said you would ask it.
What portion of that acreage will be acreage that you'll focus on for development in '14? And are there any kind of parameters you can give us around prospectivity for the breakdown of that acreage? Let me just kind of give you just a quick overview.
Certainly this is acreage that has between 4- and 5-year terms on it and then there are extensions.
Those extensions are expensive.
They are probably in the $3 000 to $4 000-type ranges to extend those for another 4 to 5 years and there is some that will come up in 2013 2014.
When we did our analysis we basically assumed that all of the acreage it was in '13 and '14 we would not renew.
In real life it looks like of that 160 000 acreage probably about 40 000 we would not renew at this point in time for '13 and '14 as we go through the overall process.
As far as the general value we think there's somewhere around half the acreage.
But ultimately we'll have wells better than 5 Bcf on it and it takes a little bit of time to figure that out.
But the real key for us was when we did the analysis if we had $4 flat forever it would take about 70 wells to get ourselves a PV-10 or a 10% return on the acquisition.
And we're very comfortable we have a lot more than 70 wells.
So we're really excited about the acquisition.
It fits right where we're at.
We've been trying to get that Susquehanna acreage for the last 3 or 4 years to fill our positions in Susquehanna.
We've got it and a lot more acreage along the way.
So it's a good overall acquisition for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And maybe just one follow-up on the Susquehanna acreage.
I'm assuming based on kind of the net well parameters that were as part of that re-lease that it's non-operated acreage.
Is that a fair assumption? Or is the way that it's set up it allows you to exercise longer laterals on your existing leases because they fall into these other areas? Can you just kind of give us a little color on that? Almost all of this acreage is 100% operated.
There's very little that is outside operated.
Just Chesapeake hasn't drilled much on it yet.
And so in Susquehanna I think almost everything there is -- for little bit to the north it kind of goes in where Williams is at so I guess we have a little bit of partnership acreage on but most of it's 100% there.
But it's really just a matter of they had not drilled much on the acreage.
So the little bit of activity that was on the acreage it was by other people putting in a little bit of acreage in units.
Our next question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean I understand that you're still engaged in discussions in terms of the Brown Dense.
But is there any color you can provide in terms of what issues are the sticking points whether it's price terms or well results? Yes.
I wouldn't say -- I wouldn't put it that we're still in discussions.
Bill and I have a little bit of difference anywhere this is at.
We thought we had a deal with a group.
They tried to renegotiate the terms.
That's not the way I work and we're not in the deal anymore.
Maybe we'll come back in the deal but it really was just simply that from that standpoint.
The other thing about it in general we've had a lot of debates whether we should get a partner or not get a partner.
Certainly we knew a few months ago I guess that we were the winner of the Chesapeake package.
And getting some dollars in on the ground inside tied to Marcellus was attractive to us.
But overall we're only going to do a deal if it's a good deal and we're only going to do a deal if it's with someone we want to work with.
So we're still looking at deals in the Brown Dense.
Certainly if you can get a partner you can go a little bit faster.
But as we said in our press release we had budgeted as if we didn't have one and we're on pace to do exactly we said we're going to do in that direction.
So it's just nothing more than somebody tried to change the terms on us and we're just not going to do work that way.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just asking a little more into the changing of the terms.
Was that after they went through the data room or sort of saw data? Or could you just provide some color on that? No.
Now about your question about was there more well control there isn't any more well control at all.
What -- when we made the announcement we had basically a term sheet with all agreed terms on it and the major thing they needed to do was do due diligence.
And that was more on the land side of it.
It wasn't with a geology or anything in that direction.
And as I said no new geological or no new information on any direction.
It was just saying we want to go back and start over on some of the terms.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate that color.
The second question looking at the acquisitions you did and the attractive acquisition price any desire to look at maybe the acquisition market to get into some new areas just given the attractive prices that are out there in your balance sheet rather than just as bolt-ons? We have a couple of areas that we target and are always looking at to get into.
And I'll just remind everyone we look at our acquisition effort as an extension of our New Ventures but we're not looking for significant production per se.
What we're looking for is something that we can use our talents to we can drill into have a long running room on it use our vertical integration.
So to the extent there's any of those kinds of acquisitions in particular areas we're definitely looking for those.
And in this case we -- there just happens to be one right in our backyard in Marcellus.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could I talk a little bit about the Marcellus firm that you guys added? When did that additional firm kick in because it didn't look like Q2 production was increased at all? And generally is there a line of sight on additional stuff out there? The data of the additional 50 000 a day that we picked up comes in in the latter part of this year.
We have -- we're looking for additional transportation but we've secured our -- the transportation that we need through '15 '16 in terms of our growth plans.
But we are out in the -- we would be out in the market looking for some additional opportunities.
I think the market is basically the way it's been the last 6 months or so.
There are operators who have firm that are not using it because they're not drilling right now.
And to the extent that we can buy 9 months or a year of firm we're doing that.
There's a couple of deals we're working on right now that are a little bit longer than that.
So they're kind of 2-year-type time frames on them.
And that goes back to Bill's comment about working towards 2015 2016 with some of the numbers.
And of course you have a Constitution line that comes on in 2015.
From the standpoint of our new acreage we had no firm on that new acreage.
So part of what we're having to do right now is develop that budget figure out what other firm we can add into the mix and figure how fast we can go on that acreage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to your comments Steve that obviously gas prices are up here a little bit but you don't feel compelled I guess to increase activity.
Now I think the plan was based on a $3.50 gas price and to the extent that obviously prices were better it seemed like at least in the Fayetteville Shale you'd add a rig.
I think it was every what $0.35 you could add a rig and stay within cash flow.
Has there been a change in thought in that in terms of like running the Fayetteville within sort of its cash flows? Well there really hasn't been any change in thought.
Fayetteville shale we'll keep it within cash flow give or take a little bit.
If you look through the first 5 months of the year I think the average NYMEX price is like $3.60.
So we just need to see a little bit more to make sure that we have some more cash flow in the Fayetteville Shale to go faster on.
We could decide maybe in the fourth quarter but as we're looking at it right now you'd be looking at -- if we build a budget around $3.50 and the average price that we have in hand today is about $3.60 we're not changing those.
Our next question comes from line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the Marcellus would you mind just talking to the various firm transport compression and drilling constraints in each of your 4 main Marcellus areas? What is constraint today? And what changes do you see between now and the end of the year? We -- the -- I guess I would start by saying in terms of constraints I think it's -- we really are looking at completing compression in the Susquehanna area.
So it's not a constraint.
We're able to flow gas through that.
So it's just ramping up infrastructure in the field in line with our drilling schedule.
We have right now today through the end of the year about 600 million a day of firm transportation out of the area and we hold that number through 2015 where we ramp up to 20 -- to 750 million a day.
So today we're able to move all of our gas.
There is -- there are no constrains through the end of the year.
And into next year there are no constraints.
We're actually slightly ahead and are utilizing other transportation that's being released in the area and then balancing that with incremental transportation if we need it.
The Bluestone line that we talked about at the end of last year will connect to Millennium in -- within the next few days.
We've been able to move all of our gas south while that activity has been happening.
And so now we'll split-flow some gas north to Millennium and some gas south to Tennessee out of the Susquehanna area.
All of the infrastructure is in place in Lycoming for the growth that we have scheduled.
And so really the next sort of question mark becomes timing on longer-term projects and we're doing some work around those to make sure that we have capacity in place to be able to move gas in the longer term.
And let me add.
We talk about constraint.
When we do the economics in some cases just because these are such strong wells we've decided that we don't need to turn on the compression and use that gas from a compression standpoint.
And so I wouldn't put that as a constraint.
It's just pure economics and whatever you're getting for the gas price.
We -- the big compression projects we have this year are in our Northeast Susquehanna area and they're to basically matching as we grow our production and as other wells start losing pressure from being put on earlier in the year.
So from that standpoint I think there really isn't a constraint as Bill said.
But let me also add we get all the questions all the time how we compare to other companies and how we're doing.
But one of the things that we did in the most recent data we were able to take our production data and take the number of stages we have and I think that all public information in Pennsylvania and then compare that to Cabot.
If you just 0 out when we started when they started put to time 0 take the number of stages of fracs that we've had to date and then the amount of production both the stages and the amount of production are dead on top of each other for where we're at.
So I think from an infrastructure standpoint we're right on schedule.
From what we're getting first stage we're right on schedule.
And the production that's showing that we're at 400 million a day we're right on schedule.
So we're excited about that.
Another way to put that is our Range wells are coming on a little bit slower than the Bradford wells.
But as we get to the peak rates and you see that on the 120-day rates on our chart we've actually had a little bit of increase in production even at 120 days in all those quarters but they're looking very comparable.
So we're excited about this acreage.
And we're -- and then if -- on top of it especially in Susquehanna we've added another 50 000 acres or so.
We're really excited about what's going to happen there later on in the year.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And to follow up on just a couple points on your response is there -- what is the impact from the Bluestone connection to Millennium? Is that a volumetric impact or a price impact or just allows for diversification? And then the compression that's coming on this summer is that baked into your guidance? Or is there some avenue of upside if in fact that does come on on time? I think the compression is in our guidance.
You -- what I'll say is I think you'll never know until you put it on and see exactly what it does.
But it's -- certainly we've factored it in as we go through.
And then Millennium does 2 things for you.
It -- the Millennium tie -- number one it's a little bit different price.
You get a couple more cents if you go into Millennium.
So we'll send as much gas as we can in that direction.
But the other part of it is in case either one of the lines are down whether they're down for maintenance or down for some other issues you've got an outlet you don't have to worry about.
So that's your 2 main things.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is on capital spend [ph].
I get I hear that you're not going to increase spending at least not in; absolute terms.
How about the allocation of capital now that you've got the Marcellus the bigger position? How should we expect your relative capital within the portfolio to shift around maybe not so much the second half of this year but as you look into 2014? Trying to predict 2014 is little difficult right now.
I will say that we're drilling faster than we expected in the Marcellus.
And so if we would try to stay in the 90-well range on the acreage we have before the acquisition rather than running 4 rigs it's more like 3.25 rigs to do that.
And so -- and we've got 4 rigs running today.
As we get towards the end of year we'll either be drilling more wells on our current acreage or we'll have spread out into the new acreage is what we're doing.
But right now with 11 days to drill a well we're drilling closer to 100 or a little over 100-well pace.
And so we're trying to adjust that into the end of '13 actually and then we'll figure out what happens in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Great.
My only other one is really you made a convincing [ph] comment there about the assumption you had on the tight curves on the acquired acreage when you said a 5-Bcf curve.
But looking at the track records you've established up there already obviously that seems a little conservative.
I'm just curious is that a starting point? Or do you have reasons to think that these wells are going to be less productive than the balance of your portfolio? Or are you just being conservative? I'll leave it at that.
Well I think certainly part of our acreage is well under 3 Bcf and there's a little bit of control for that.
And we've talked about in our current acreage in Lycoming Country much of that is less than the 5 Bcf numbers.
And as you swing into Wyoming there'll be some of that that's less than 5 Bcf with a little bit of well control that we've seen.
In other areas frankly there's just not much well control so we're just going to have to go figure it out.
And obviously in those areas we don't have well control we look at what the industry has done around as we risk those numbers and that when we look at that risk kind of factor we're thinking 50% or less is at 5 Bcf.
We'll have to figure it out.
Now the other side of that we are offsetting some wells in Wyoming County for instance some of our acreage that are already proved to be 10-Bcf wells or higher.
Some of the new acreage we have is right outside where Cabots has recently announced in Susquehanna County and they're talking about wells much better than 5 Bcf there.
And certainly some of our Tioga County acreage is sandwiched between what Shell has been doing and what we've been doing and those almost certainly will have a lot of wells higher than 5 Bcf.
So some cases we've got it pretty much down and we'll just have to figure out how much higher.
In other cases we're going to have to drill some wells and put in some infrastructure just to figure out the quality.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Steve you've always been evolving your well design a little bit in your existing acreage.
Have you kind of figured out what your standard well is going to look like in the new acreage? Or is that going to be more of well you control as well? In other words what's your standard [indiscernible]...
The well design will be ongoing.
And I'm going to jump to Fayetteville then come back to Marcellus.
But if you think about the Fayetteville we're 3 500 wells into drilling.
One of the reasons we had some low rates in January well we were trying to do some different -- little different fracs in an area and those fracs didn't work the way we liked.
We learned some from those.
One of the reasons that in April we had such higher rates that we announced was we went right back to the same area with a slightly different frac and got better wells significantly better wells.
So even now we're learning.
In the case of Marcellus we are understanding a couple of things.
We think we know the rough spacing for the Bradford County.
We spent most of last year trying to do that.
In Lycoming County we tried to pull a well at a very high rate -- a couple of wells at high rates.
They performed at high rates well above 10 million a day.
When we look at how their pressure drops they seem to more act like the Haynesville where rather than having the high rates you want to come in with a medium rate maybe some at 8 million a day-type well and let that pressure stabilize as you go through it.
We're trying to understand in both Bradford and Susquehanna whether the high rate is better long term or the low rates -- or a low or medium rate is better long term.
In our new acreage to extent that in here where we've done some work we can transfer that knowledge.
But a lot of that we're just going to have to go in and start learning as we go through.
So I don't think there's going to be a -- just a formula in our stage spacing or on how hard you pull a well across our whole acreage block.
It's going to be individualized for each of the areas.
And the reason it's going to do that is from Lycoming to Susquehanna there's over 2 000-foot depth there's a difference across there there's thickness differences across there and there's pressure gradient differences across there.
So all of that will affect how it produces and how you need to frac as you go through.
Our next question comes from the line Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve I wanted to talk to you a little bit about the development plans in the Fayetteville.
You had obviously gone to wider spacing in order to help you meet the 1.3 PVI target in a lower gas price environment.
Yet with prices now moving up your well costs going down what are the plans to shift back to your call it your more original plan which was tighter spacing? Do you plan to do that this year or will that wait? It could happen in the fourth quarter.
Again we just need to see how price is working.
And it's not so much tighter spacing as we've talked about in the past.
We're kind of drilling the better wells in the areas.
So we're just not drilling at hardly any spacing.
We're just putting 1 or 2 wells near maybe a well that was drilled before.
And we'll get back to pad drilling once we're comfortable we're in a $4 world or near a $4 world.
And certainly the forward curve looks like that way.
As long as it holds in this shape you'll see us towards the end of this year and going into next year going back to those pad-type drilling operations.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Steve you did provide a lot of...
And the other thing -- yes let me just put on there this year we're going to average a little over 2 wells per pad.
So we're certainly not in a pad drilling situation right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve you gave us a lot of great detail in terms of the Marcellus in terms of 30- 60- and 120-day rates and the average lateral length.
I see quite a bit of volatility in the data.
I was wondering if you could maybe give us your thoughts on what you think the data suggests in terms of your Marcellus position.
And also you have been moving around that lateral length a little bit.
Just some thoughts on as you move forward what you think the optimal lateral length could be.
Yes.
Brad asked the same question.
Why are you putting that chart in there? It's got a bunch of junk on it.
And really it's just bouncing around because it's -- we're really new on the project area.
So even if you look at well counts well counts bounce around let alone the other parts of it.
One thing as I said before that we've seen and one of the reasons we've put the chart together this way an IP the initial high rate really doesn't as much value and we don't even get to the highest rate in Bradford for instance until at least 30 days out.
And in Range it's 45 to 60 days out before you see it.
So we've tried to use something where you could follow how it's going to happen over time and I think a lot of this is just erratic nature of being early in the program.
In some of those quarters you'll remember we're waiting on getting pipelines in and we put a bunch of wells on them once and filled up the system.
Another quarter you did something else.
So I think you just need to follow that through.
From an average lateral length though it's probably less than 5 000 feet.
It's probably low 4 000 -- I mean high 4 000s and less than 5 000 for the most part.
Lycoming probably will average a little longer than that.
And certainly on our new acreage as we get to parts of that there may be some of that that averages longer.
But I don't think on average you'll see us much above 5 000 feet.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick follow-up.
In terms of the number of stages I think you mentioned that you're moving to maybe 17 stages on average.
Are you seeing the benefit of the additional stage in terms of recoveries or IP rates? I don't know that we're moving to 17 stage on average.
We're trying to figure that out.
And in Bradford County we think that at 250- to 300-foot range and I think we averaged last year about 280 or something but we think that range is the right spacing on fracs.
And so then it just goes back to what your average lateral length is and how many frac stages you have in a well.
We're trying to learn what's it going to be in Susquehanna and I know some of our competitors have a tighter spacing there.
It may end up to be that way.
We just have to find that out.
So I think it'll just depend on each area exactly what that is and that's why you see a lot of us talking about per stage numbers because each area is going to be a little different on the total number of stages.
Our next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question.
I've heard you talk in the past about you being fine with your firm transportation situation if the wells were 5.5 Bcf or less.
And so I guess is the right way to think about that that if you do get numbers higher than that that -- is it -- so kind of beyond 2014 is when you feel like you would need to schedule in further firm transportation versus what you have now? Is that what you're saying? What we've talked about in the past well we believe that we want to have most of our production covered by firm and we think that's important to get it to a liquid point especially as fast as Marcellus has grown we don't know what you're going to get on the interruptible or day market.
And so we originally and this is almost 2 years ago now developed a program and developed a plan where we said "What's the maximum rate that we can have and hold it flat for 8 to 10 years?" And that number with the assumptions we had at that point in time assuming around 5-Bcf wells and 5 -- a little over 5 million a day on average rates said that we're some margins short of 800 million a day was that peak rate that we could have.
And then we designed our current capital program.
Just backing off of that and going back to where we are today it came to be drilling around 100 wells a year at that 3 000 4-rig program and that's what we started doing last year and got us to this year.
We're into that framework.
If the well performance is on average or a little bit higher we'll tack on a little bit of firm that's out there and it'll be roughly an 800 million-day range and we'll hold that flat for that period of time.
If we saw either on the new acreage something or in the acreage we have now where there are significantly better wells on average then certainly we'd have to go find some more capacity.
And today while we can buy little pieces of capacity from other operators if we needed to for instance have 100 million or 150 million a day more you'd have to commit to some new pipe and that's 2 years out.
So that goes back to your comment about when you'd accelerate the capital.
You'd accelerated the capital as you were seeing the firm in place.
So that'd be a little bit  farther down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And is generally new sort of a second tranche of firm transportation does it end up usually costing more than the early stuff that's put in? Or what would be your guess there? Not necessarily.
Research Division</strong> Not necessarily all right.
But it depends on how you're getting it and where you're getting it from.
Certainly if it's just like Tennessee Gas doing something to their line and adding compression that's usually less cost than putting in a brand-new line.
But really it depends on the business you're growing how many -- how big the line is and whether it's a new line or what's your -- how you're getting the capacity.
So it doesn't have to change.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just one more quick follow-up.
I guess in terms of looking at Bradford and Susquehanna County I guess where would you say you are kind of -- in Bradford it looks like you're getting much much better results.
I mean are you kind of in the fifth or sixth inning there? And what's -- what would you say about Susquehanna? Well Bradford we've drilled on all corners of that block and we're feeling that we know it fairly comfortably.
So it's really is in a pad mode.
And while we're learning and we try this well we talked about in the press release trying to learn how to do it a little bit better we understand the geology and how it changes what's going on there.
In Bradford in the -- I mean in Susquehanna in the fourth quarter we first -- put our first wells on and they were in the Northeast area but at the far south tip of that.
During the first quarter we started to work along the Bluestone Pipeline a little bit north.
And by the end of the year we'll have wells all the way up almost to the New York border and have wells almost to the eastern side of that northern block of acreage.
So at that time we'll at least understand the geology to understand how you frac and how you get the best well out of that.
That's something beyond this year into next year or maybe a little later than that.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
You spoke about PUD reserves returning to books on price in your prepared comments.
Can you elaborate on that statement and maybe speak to at what price and how much has returned? And as a follow-up to that what should be expected with greater strength in price here going forward? Yes the -- let's comment.
If you look at SEC rules you have to use a 12-month rolling average.
The actual 12-month rolling average in price is something like $0.20 higher than it was at the end of the year.
So you didn't have much increase in price.
We added about 200 PUDs.
In the Fayetteville Shale it's a little less than 200.
For those who remember we had just over 200 at the end of the year.
So we doubled the PUD count in the Fayetteville Shale and that's where he's talking about increase in count mainly.
Obviously the $0.20 helps a little bit on the tailwind of wells.
It helps a little bit in Marcellus but it's mainly in Fayetteville.
Okay.
And as a follow-up on the Marcellus and this is more a clarification here on the Marcellus acquisition you stated about 50% of the acreage will have wells with 5-Bcf recoveries or greater.
That's net of the 40 000 net acres that will be allowed to expire correct? I think that's total acreage I was talking about from 160 000.
And certainly 40 000 of that is going to be gone here in the next 2 years.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> You guys have provided a lot of good detail on the Marcellus here but I'd like to go in a fairly different direction and ask you about 2 of your New Ventures plays.
And specifically on the Staner reentry did you always have the plan to just try one completion design on these first 5 stages and see how that went? Or did the -- or did you see something when you completed those stages that made you just want to let the well flow and see what it did? No our original plan was to complete that lateral -- or fill that lateral and complete it in 2 phases where we would do the first 5 stages let it flow for a while look at the cuts look at the quality of the performance and then go back into it and complete the remainder of that.
So there's no change to our plan.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And do you have...
We're encouraged by what we're seeing so far.
We're just -- it's early days.
We received -- we had oil come in the first 2 days and then we're continuing to monitor it.
It's still cleaning up.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And do you have a different completion design for those -- for the next 11 stages than you did for the first 5 here? We're going to finalize that once we see what happens in these first 5 stages.
And so -- and we've done this before in other wells.
We will split-complete it look and see where we are what the performance is on the recipe [ph] that we used and then go back make adjustments or not depending on what we see and then do the remainder of the completion.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then that kind of gets to my next question.
It sounds like you're going to take a similar approach for the Dean horizontal.
That's correct.
We've done the first 6 stages and now we are -- we've pulled back.
We're evaluating the results of that.
We're evaluating the -- combining that with the results of the other wells in the area that -- where we've learned from and then -- sorry my voice is going.
And then we will optimize that frac and then move forward again.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
And when might you think that you'll have something you want to share on either of those or on both of those wells? I think it's going to be later in the year.
We don't -- I don't have an exact timing.
We're really trying to incorporate the learnings.
One of the things about drilling in these plays is trying to optimize our learning as we go.
And so we want to capture all the value of the data or the testing that we've done.
And so I don't have a time for you yet.
But we'll let you know as soon as we're ready to move forward.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it yes.
But there's definitely a trade-off there.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Christensen with Buckingham Research.
Bob Christensen you are now live.
Okay.
Well our next question comes from the line of Biju Perincheril with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question going back to the well designs in Marcellus.
And so you've talked about in Bradford County sort of what do you think is the ideal length for frac stages.
But latest well the Blaine-Hoyd well it looked like you're getting improved productivity with the shorter frac stages.
Can you talk about the design going forward? And what's the information you're still looking for there? We're going to -- it's almost exactly what Bill said in the last question.
We need to look at it.
Certainly you're getting higher rates.
But rates aren't the only part of it.
You have to look at the pressure drawdown and the overall effects on the production.
And if I had to guess today as we compare it to some of the other wells we've done where we've gone on a slower ramp-up on rate on just the pure rate part of it the slower ramp-up looks like it holds pressure longer than the higher rate.
Now certainly part of that has to do with how close you put the stages together.
But what we're in now adjusting on the stages is is it 250 275 or 300? We're not in is it 250 or 150? So we're still fine-tuning but we're above 200 from the stages -- the space on the stages.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you give us some data on your sort of average 30-day rates or 60-day rates in Susquehanna versus Bradford County and Lycoming? Well in Susquehanna and Lycoming we barely have 60-day rates I mean we've got some 80s maybe or something in that range.
Lycoming in general is well we have -- we drilled a couple of wells earlier with short laterals.
But if you take a 4 500-foot lateral most 4 500-foot lateral wells are producing 7 -- between 7 million and 8 million a day-type numbers.
And in Susquehanna at around something beyond the 60-day mark we're still -- a lot of those wells are still increasing on their maximum rates but they're in the 6-plus million a day-type average range for those wells.
And there are some that are much better than that there are some a little bit lower than that in Susquehanna but that's kind of the general part of it and then you can compare that to the Bradford.
Bradford's mainly what's in that presentation material that we have there but you can see those rates in the 6 million to 6.5 million or 7 million a day-type range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then one last question.
Looking at the acreage that you recently acquired especially in Susquehanna it looks like there's not been a lot of permitting activity on that very eastern side of Susquehanna.
And can you talk about if there are any geological reasons for that? Or is that most -- is that -- those acreage had a longer expiry? In general the eastern side of Susquehanna hasn't had much permitting because you haven't had a way to get the gas out.
That Bluestone line that just went in in December is the main way all of the industry will get their gas out of that area.
Now from a geologic standpoint the center of Susquehanna County is for the total Marcellus is thicker and when you head north towards New York or east towards New Jersey.
So it is thinning a little bit.
But from a general perspective you're talking about 30- or 40-foot -- take this change across the whole interval geologic as you go there.
So it's basically you need to get the Bluestone line and so you start hooking up some wells.
Our next question comes from the line of Nick Pope with Cowen Securities.
Research Division</strong> A quick question on the acquisition.
The -- what is the royalty running on kind of the acreage that you acquired? And where is that relative to where you're at on kind of the heritage Marcellus asset? It's very similar to the acreage that we have.
It's about an 84% NRI.
Our next question comes from the line of with Hsulin Peng with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick clarification question.
On the New Venture sponsor [ph] I think that has assumed a JV partner.
And so if you are not going down in the -- in Brown Dense how would you -- where would you get the additional allocation dollar from? Well I don't think we ever said exactly how much we're investing in the Brown Dense but we had originally in our budget about 2.5 net wells and we may invest a little bit more in another well this year and top the ones we drilled now.
But we can move money around within the joint venture budget to do that.
So it's done requiring more budget as we go through.
And we still have...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you found the -- well go ahead.
Well this has to do with whether we might be drilling some place else or what acreage we might be picking up and how fast we pick up acreage.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then can you comment on the progress you are making toward the $10 million well cost target that you previously mentioned? Both in our -- we've drilled 2 wells since last quarter.
Both of those came on time.
And if we didn't have a lot of science to them on a 4 000-foot lateral it would be in that I'd say mid-$10 million range $10.5 million to $10.7 million range somewhere in that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well that's good.
And then last question.
I know I've only seen comment on Paradox but I was just thinking.
So Fidelity [ph] we know Fidelity [ph] is drilling in the area as well and I was wondering essentially are you thinking about similar results to what they have been doing there? Well we will be -- our objective is the King Creek [ph] interval.
And King Creek [ph] interval -- the King Creek [ph] interval is in a very large section.
But we'll be going for the  King Creek [ph] which I believe is the same thing they're going for.
And you'll us have some activity later this summer out there.
It seems there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the floor back over for closing comments.
Thank you.
One of the questions everyone should ask about a company is how do you measure yourself? Today in this quarter we talked about a lot of things: revenue costs cash flow earnings positive economics production activity.
We talked a lot about learning.
And we'll continue to measure and talk about those things as we go forward in the future.
For us this year we've got a special measure in 2013 and that's to deliver more.
And you saw a little bit of a glance of that in our discussion today for the first quarter.
Our economics continue to improve in the Fayetteville Shale as we drive down the costs.
Lower costs allows us to have more activity.
We talked about that in the Marcellus.
And we're also like to have more activity in the Fayetteville.
But what's amazing about this is Fayetteville now is producing almost 8 years and you're only barely 1/3 to the locations that we have to drill out there.
So we have a lot more to do in the Fayetteville Shale.
When we think about the Marcellus we've got exceptional results from the wells we have.
And as I said before production per frac stage is comparable to anyone in Northeast Pennsylvania.
And we're still learning.
We're still developing more and better wells.
And then on top of that we've got some new acreage where we're going to create more options more wells ability to do more vertical integration and actually add more production and more value.
We've mentioned just to the last question about our New Ventures projects.
We've got 4 of them that we've identified.
We have 1.3 million acres.
And we've got a lot more ideas and you'll see at least one more come out this year.
And then finally we're delivering more with less.
When you think about our capital budget our capital budget is $100 million than last year.
The capital budget in the Fayetteville Shale is $200 million less than last year.
That's been our pride and joy.
And yet we're growing production at 13% giving you more production with less capital.
Of course we've got less days we've got less costs.
And one of the reasons we have less costs is that we're using less water.
And we're working towards our goal that by 2016 we're net-neutral as far as freshwater goes.
Again for us 2013 is a year more and the first quarter is just a start on what that more is.
I thank you for the time you've taken from your busy schedules to listen to us today and have a great weekend.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller President and CEO of Southwestern Energy.
Thank you Mr.
Mueller.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning and thank all of you for joining us today.
With me are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our second quarter 2013 results you could find a copy of all of this on our website at swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this conference -- teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the Forward-Looking Statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
I'm excited to begin this call today.
And for those of you who know me the word excited isn't often used.
And we just had an excellent quarter.
A combination of high production and high realized gas prices or higher realized gas prices resulted in records for adjusted earnings EBITDA and cash flow in the second quarter.
Our production growth of 17% was primarily fueled by the strong oil performance from our Marcellus Shale properties combined with more overall wells placed on production.
As a result we've increased our production guidance for the second time this year.
Additionally our well counts and capital investments for the year have also been increased due to our recent acquisition and planned drilling on it as well as faster drilling times and more efficiency.
I want to stop there for a second and remind you little bit about our overall philosophy.
In the Marcellus it's obviously the best economics we have in the company.
And we try as best we could to put as much capital in that direction.
And we announced last quarter the acquisition and didn't think we could spend much capital there this year.
We've worked hard and build on more and more details about what we're doing there.
But of that increase there's about $140 million total $93 million of acquisition and the rest in some activity we can do in that acreage.
And then when we talk about the Fayetteville Shale we've always said that we wanted to keep it within cash flow and we've been trying to do that for the last 2 or 3 years.
And frankly they have been so efficient.
Rather than drop a rig in the drilled wells we said we were going to we're going to keep one of the rig running and with that one rig running be able to drill faster this year and guarantee significant growth next year.
Now that's all just part of our theme that we have for delivering more.
As I said we'll keep more -- 8 rigs running in the Fayetteville all year due to the increased capital budget.
The one thing I didn't mention was when we started the year we built our capital budget in Fayetteville to basically balanced.
Running the 8 rigs for the whole year and adding wells we'll actually have $100 million of cash flow from the Fayetteville come back to our company.
That's a great example of adding more for Southwestern Energy.
In the Marcellus we've learned a lot about productivity in our wells in northern Susquehanna County.
And our production ramp out of that area has been tremendous growing from 0 to over 100 million -- 180 million a day in just 7 months.
And we've just looked at the wells drilled and the acreage that they are actually developing.
It's less than 5% of that northeast corner of Range Trust area.
But because of the geographic extent and we'll continue drilling farther north through the rest of the year we already think we derisked approximately 50% of our total position in Susquehanna north area.
There's more to learn obviously and more to come from this area and the other counties as we start exploring some of the new acreage we've purchased earlier this year.
But the Marcellus has obviously given us more.
I mentioned before that we're going to have higher cash flow from Fayetteville and we're going to increase our capital budget.
I've talked in several calls and talked with many of you about the fact that before we raised our capital budget we'd have to feel better about gas price.
And obviously we feel better about gas price too.
It's always a discussion point this time of the year.
And especially in the heat of the summer there is always the debate raging about what the gas price is going to be in the future.
we believe the most of the numbers point to the fact that this gap between supply and demand is continuing to narrow.
And we remain encouraged that we'll be in a $4-world long-term and we think that could happen late this year or early next year.
Now I want everyone to keep in mind the gas prices don't drive our success.
As we've proved in 2012 our business model can generate returns in a much lower gas price environment.
And you can be sure we'll always be focused on disciplined learning -- disciplined investing continued learning keeping our costs low and delivering more value for the business.
And now I want to turn call over to Bill.
He'll give you details on both our capital budget and our production as well as some of the other great things going on.
And then Craig will recap with the financial results.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
The execution of our drilling and completion programs in our Marcellus and Fayetteville areas has resulted in record productions this quarter and has set the stage for very good year for Southwestern Energy in 2013.
The production performance from both areas has been truly outstanding and I want to personally thank our Fayetteville and Pennsylvania integrated teams for a truly terrific job.
Overall our production in the second quarter grew by 17% over the last year fueled largely by faster drilling times in the Fayetteville and strong well results and increased activity in Pennsylvania as Steve mentioned.
As a result of this success we've increased our production guidance for the remainder of the year.
And further we have increased our capital budget which includes our acreage acquisition in Pennsylvania which was closed in the second quarter; address additional drilling activity due to faster drilling times and increased efficiencies; and capital for our E&amp;P services group.
As a result our planned well counts will increase by 70 wells in the Fayetteville and approximately 15 wells in the Marcellus.
Let me begin with the Marcellus.
We placed 37 wells on production this quarter compared to 21 wells in the first quarter.
As a result our gross operated production that had reached 400 million cubic feet of gas per day in mid-April further increased to 500 million cubic feet of gas per day by mid-June.
Net production for the quarter was 3x greater when compared to a year ago rising from 34 Bcf up from 10 Bcf in the second quarter of 2012.
Our Marcellus production will continue to grow in line with available gas transportation infrastructure.
At this time we currently have agreements in place to allow us to transport over 800 million cubic feet of gas per day out of the area by 2015.
We are pursuing opportunities for long-term access to additional firm takeaway capacity out of the basin and we'll keep you updated as things progress for us in that area.
In keeping with our plans for the area we announced yesterday that we've entered into agreements with subsidiaries of DTE Pipeline Company which provide for additional firm capacity to both Millennium and Tennessee Gas Pipelines on the Bluestone gathering system in Susquehanna County.
This additional capacity further strengthens our ability to move Marcellus gas to liquid markets from the area.
We also added 103 million cubic feet per day of additional firm transportation capacity on various long-haul pipes comprised of a mixture of firm transport and short- and long-term sales.
The delineation of our Range Trust area in northern Susquehanna County continues to provide us with strong results since we first put wells on in the area in late November.
18 wells were brought on production in the area during the second quarter helping to further delineate the acreage to the east and north.
In just 7 months gross operated production has increased from 0 in the Range area to approximately 184 million cubic feet per day as of July 1 from a total of 40 wells.
As a follow-up to our Blaine-Hoyd well in southern Bradford County that we announced last quarter the production from this well continues to be very strong.
And I'll remind you this well had 32 stages in completion a longer sea lat [ph] of over 6 500 feet and after 90 days this well was producing approximately 16 million cubic feet per day and had cumulative production of 1.5 Bcf for the second quarter.
Earlier this week the well is still producing approximately 15 million a day.
We continue to experiment with our fracture stimulations lateral lengths flow techniques further optimizing our well performance and believe we're getting closer to conclusions on how to best stimulate these wells.
Wells placed to sail in the first 6 months of 2013 have averaged 17 stages per well compared to 12 stages in 2012 while average lateral lengths have been approximately 4 700 feet this year compared to roughly 4 100 feet last year.
Meanwhile completed well costs have declined to $6.6 million per well in the second quarter compared to a little over $7 million per well in the first quarter.
On the midstream side total gathered volume in the Marcellus was approximately 503 million cubic feet per day from 167 miles of gathering lines in the field as of June 30 half of which are Southwestern Energy-owned and are gathering 300 million cubic feet per day.
We also added first compression to the Range area in late June with another phase of compression scheduled to be placed in service in October.
Additional compression was placed in service in Greenzweig yesterday and first compression at Lycoming is planned to come on later this year.
As more compression is installed in these wells our wells will not have to compete as much against high line pressure and can then produce at high rates.
We have closed on the previously announced acquisition of approximately 162 000 net acres near our existing acreage position in Pennsylvania in May and we've included $50 million in our revised capital budget for drilling lease renewals participation in wells operated by others seismic and other expenses on the new acreage.
Let me shift to Fayetteville now where we placed 126 operated wells on production in the first quarter at an average completed well cost of $2.3 million per well.
Our completed well costs were up from $2.1 million in the first quarter due to longer laterals and deeper average vertical depths.
This however marks the first quarter that our laterals have averaged over 5 000 feet since the inception of the play.
We continue to drill wells across the play and the resulting economic value from our wells in the second quarter continued to be enhanced by our vertically integrated services.
And further efficiencies continue to be a significant benefit in driving down our costs.
Initial production rates from the wells during the second quarter returned to trend and averaged 3.6 million cubic feet of gas per day.
For wells already brought online in July we've had an average peak initial production rates in excess of 4 million cubic feet of gas per day with several high rate wells still climbing while cleaning up.
As Steve noted with our current capital program of $900 million in the Fayetteville and the resulting additional well count we project the division will now generate free cash flow of roughly $100 million this year using prices to date and strip prices going forward.
And on the midstream side our gas gathering business in the Fayetteville Shale continues to perform very well and at June 30 was gathering approximately 2.3 billion cubic fee of natural gas per day from 1 886 miles of gathering lines in the field.
Let me switch to new ventures and update you on our progress there.
To date in the Brown Dense we have drilled 8 wells.
We remain very encouraged after watching flattening production profiles from both our BML horizontal well and the Dean vertical well over the last several months.
We've seen further encouragement in the completion of our eighth well the Sharp vertical well.
The first stage we stimulated in the Sharp wells is lowest part of the Brown Dense and it is an interval that we had not previously tested in any of our previous wells.
This interval seems to be more highly fractured and we've seen -- than we've seen in previous sections.
This interval well has been testing just over a week and is continuing to increase in rate and flowing pressures with rates over 125 barrels a day at 48-degree gravity oil 326 000 Mcf of 1 275 Btu gas.
We will likely simulate and test the remaining 3 wells or intervals of this well in the next few weeks.
We've also seen industry activity pick up in the area as both public and private operators have requested drilling permits and 2 of 5 planned wells have actually been spud with the remainder planned for later this year or early next.
Overall we remain excited about the Brown Dense and we're going to continue to work to unlock the commerciality of this play.
In our Brown -- in our Denver-Julesburg Basin oil play in Eastern Colorado we've begun flowback on our 15-stage Staner well on July 18 and we'll watch performance of this well over the next 90 days.
In the Bakken we have concluded our testing on our second well.
We are disappointed with the results that we've seen and will move on to other opportunities in our New Ventures portfolio.
In New Brunswick we've successfully acquired 2 lines of 2D seismic and look to acquire 2 more lines of 2D this quarter.
We remain on track with our goal of first drilling in late 2014.
To close we're delivering more to our shareholders and we believe in the future of Southwestern and we believe that future is very bright driven not only by the produceable assets we have in hand but also because of the potential of the early-stage New Ventures projects that we're working on.
We will continue to update everyone on these over time including some that are undisclosed for now.
In the meantime we remain vigilant in continuing to drive the process of innovation keeping our costs as low as possible and adding significant value for each dollar we invest.
And I look forward to talking to you more about the progress of these in the future quarters.
Let me now turn it over to Craig Owen who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
As Steve mentioned our results in the second quarter were outstanding driven by higher production volumes and higher gas prices.
Excluding noncash items we reported net income of approximately $190 million or $0.54 per share for the second quarter more than doubling prior year net income of $91 million or $0.27 per share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was a record $493 million.
This was 16% higher than the first quarter and up 39% compared to the same time last year.
Operating income for our exploration and production segment was $253 million over 3x higher than the $82 million we recorded in the second quarter of 2012 again primarily due to the higher production and higher realized gas prices partially offset by the higher expenses due to the increased activity.
We realized an average gas price of $3.85 per Mcf during the second quarter compared to $3.12 per Mcf in the second quarter of last year and have 169 Bcf of our remaining 2013 projected natural gas productions hedged through fixed price swaps at a weighted average price of $4.68 per MMBtu.
We also have 233 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2014 at an average price of $4.41 per MMBtu.
As for field differentials.
We have projected approximately 128 Bcf of our remaining 2013 projected natural gas production from the potential widening basis differentials through hedging activities and sales arrangements at an average basis differentials to NYMEX gas prices of approximately $0.06 per Mcf.
This includes approximately 50% of our expected Marcellus volumes that are protected through year end.
Although both NYMEX and field prices have declined from levels seen earlier in the year we continue to watch the gas markets closely and will look for opportunities to add to our hedged position.
One of the softer basis points that the northeast market has seen this summer is Dominion which has the potential to impact approximately 15% of our Marcellus production through the shoulder season.
One thing to remember is that when the new pipeline projects go in service this fall and winter -- and excuse me and winter demand arrives these differential should improve.
And this is all reflected in our expectation of a $0.55 discount to NYMEX for the balance of 2013.
Our cash operating cost of approximately $1.24 per Mcfe in the second quarter continue to be very low relative to rest of the industry.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.85 per Mcfe in the second quarter up from $0.79 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to higher compression and gathering costs in the Marcellus Shale partially offset by lower saltwater disposal costs in the Fayetteville Shale.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.24 per Mcfe down from $0.27 a year ago and were lower due to decreased employee-related and information system costs.
Taxes and other income taxes were $0.11 per Mcfe compared to $0.08 a year ago.
Our full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment fell to $1.05 per Mcfe compared to $1.38 last year.
Operating income from our midstream services segment was relatively flat with last year at approximately $73 million during the quarter.
At June 30 our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio was 36% essentially flat when compared to the end of 2012 and our liquidity continues to be in excellent shape.
We currently expect our debt to total book capitalization ratio at end of 2013 to be approximately 34% to 36% at current strip prices.
With our outlook for increased natural gas production coupled with higher gas prices being budgeted and a low-cost structure we believe we have not only a record year ahead of us in 2013 but also the ability to create significant value for many years to come.
That concludes my comments and now we'll turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So when we look at that Marcellus EUR or I guess type curve charts in the some of these recent wells that you've got roughly 18 stages on seem to be performing the 16 Bcf EUR is pretty impressive.
I mean when you step back look at your acreage now that you've done a little bit more drilling how much of your acreage do you think could be that good? And if you have a general well location count that could be applicable that will be appreciated.
Just kind of a general comment.
Certainly the Chesapeake acquisition which was 162 000 acres we don't have a whole lot of new information on that.
That's one of the reasons we're trying to accelerate our capital budget.
But I think it's safe to say -- we talked in the past that we were -- had 1 000 wells on the acreage we had before Chesapeake.
In the Chesapeake we had at least 300.
And it's safe to say whether it's the size of the well for the number of well count there's probably at least 20% additional in all those categories.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my follow-up is in the Fayetteville.
The IP rates in the second quarter were pretty solid.
It looks like the 30th- and 60th-day rates were a little bit lower than some of your prior groupings of wells.
Was there anything specific to that? Yes the IP rates are higher and it just represents geographic mix.
We are drilling and completing wells across the play.
And depending on -- and as we mentioned last time our focus is on value.
And so with our low well cost the opportunity to drill in some of the shallower areas and capture our 1.3 or greater PVI benefit is our objective.
And so the well mix from the previous quarter and into this quarter is impacted by drilling in some of those areas.
The really important piece of it is is that in our current drilling inventory for this entire year we are in excess of our financial metrics in terms of drilling going forward.
And I think Scott a kind of easy way to think about it it'll roll through just like the low IP did last quarter.
And I think you'll see 60-day -- 30-day to 60-day up this next quarter.
So it's just one of those bubbles as far as I'm concerned in the curve.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> One of the key debates is how the wells in the Range Trust in northeast Susquehanna County compare with some of the higher-profile wells we've seen in southern Susquehanna County.
Beyond the 50% of Susquehanna overall as perspective can you add some more granularity on how far north and northeast you've tested within -- particularly the Range area and how the well performance is varying if at all? We'll kind of a tag team this between Bill and myself.
We're -- from a distance across Range Trust and to kind of remind everybody we've got about 120 000 acres total in Susquehanna County about 23 000 24 000 in the southern corner then the rest is up in the northeast corner of the county.
And we've been concentrating on the northeast corner in the last several months.
We're about just over halfway north towards the New York line drilling and some -- just a pure drilling standpoint.
And from a geological what are we finding portion of it wells are looking similar at least that far north.
The section does spin going north.
The section does get shallower so there's a little less pressure.
So I would expect that the well spacing probably won't be quite as tight as you go further north.
But by the end of the year we'll have drilled all the way up to the New York border.
We can talk all about that at that point in time.
And anything you want add Bill? We're getting fairly consistent performance across the 40 producing wells on average up there.
The more we get on compression the higher the IPs are coming or the flatter the declines are.
But we've got -- from the cross really the entire acreage all the way to the northeast where Steve has talked about us testing were fairly consistent.
We've seen wells as high as 9.5 million a day and several in the plus 7 or plus 8 area across a broad area of this play or this part of the acreage.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess if I could try on the Marcellus as well.
So Steve how should we think about just for modeling purposes as your rate of rig count is now and how that's been allocated across the different areas as it relates to the type curves we should be using.
Because clearly if everything is getting done on the 17- and 18-stage fracs one would imagine the growth rate is going to continue to move up.
I'm not sure I'd count rig count per se because we're getting better on how fast we're drilling the wells.
We're cutting that time down.
But I would think that as you look at in the future at least near-term this year we've said it to be around 100 wells.
Next year it will be in that roughly same number of range maybe a little bit more 110 or 120 but that will be the range that you're looking at next year in what we're doing.
And we obviously -- if we're getting 20% better wells and 20% more wells plus we need to have more takeaway.
And as Bill said we're working on a takeaway too.
And as we get that takeaway we might be able to go a little bit faster.
I would assume that would be late a 2014 early 2015 at the earliest time on that though.
Research Division</strong> So Steve let me be a little bit more specific.
So what I'm getting at is -- the well count is very helpful.
But are those wells going to be designed on the larger frac stages? In other words should we be looking at a bigger type curve? Or how should we be thinking about that? We've been studying the spacing on these frac stages across the piece.
And we really believe that in Greenzweig and Range areas so Bradford Susquehanna County we're -- we look like we're closing in on about 240-foot stage spacing.
In Lycoming it's a bit further and we still have some work to do.
So we are studying it in this -- really in this broad range of 200 to 300 across Greenzweig and Range.
I think we've landed about where we are.
We ought to have by the end of year sufficient wells drilled in the Lycoming area to better hone in on an exact space.
We think some of the numbers that we've heard out in the industry of 600 plus are a bit too far apart.
So we're honing in on that sort of 500 area.
A lot of our drilling this year forward is in Susquehanna and Bradford in addition to the drilling that we talked briefly about on the acreage we purchased.
But we do have wells planned in all of the areas for the remainder of the year.
And I think to put a little more color on that that it varies.
And I think to put a little more color on that it varies.
Lycoming the Susquehanna that we drilled to date and Bradford you're probably around the 5 000-foot lateral on average.
It's going to be a little bit longer in Lycoming.
And that 16 to 18 stages is probably where you're at.
We hesitate a little bit.
We know going south that the geology gets a little more complex.
And we just don't know what we can average for lateral lengths down there.
And there'll always be a spot where there'll have a 3 000-foot lateral and you have lesser stages because of the lateral.
But just going back to yours which curves to look at that 16 to 18 stages is what you want to look at.
Our next question comes from David Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the Marcellus a little bit as well most recent wells 600-foot kind of increased in lateral lengths.
And call it 4 additional stages if I'm just comparing the averages you gave us on the call between full year '12 and the first half of '13 cost is down about $400 000 despite the longer laterals and more frac stages.
Can you break that down for us in terms of the cost benefit that's been driven by efficiency gains versus service cost declines versus maybe change in well designs province use [ph] things like that? I think to kind of break it down in some large chunks and I can get some detail to you very specifically if we need to.
But the -- we have frac costs having come down significantly.
Our original frac stage -- or frac contract had some supplemental fracs added to it because of increased activity.
So we've -- the cost per stage of frac has dropped rather significantly.
We are seeing faster drilling times as we ramp up activity and get into the more manufacturing type mode that we enjoy in the Fayetteville Shale.
And so your drilling times have gone from 16 15 days down to 11 12 days and -- which is putting a lot of downward opportunity for us to capture on just the days to drill.
That is offset by these denser frac-ed wells.
And so -- and bottom line you end up with a kind of a summary.
But the large chunks are faster more efficient drilling lower cost per unit on fracture stimulation offset by higher density fracs.
And I'll just add one thing on the fracs themselves.
We are doing those a little bit different.
Like a lot in the industry we're putting more sand than we did probably a year ago putting as much as we can into it.
So we continue to adjust the amount of sand.
But the actual frac itself hasn't changed much other than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
And then in CapEx increase there was about a $50 million increase to corporate and other that you guys didn't address as you were walking through.
Can you guys give us additional color on that? I'll tell you what.
Save that question for next quarter.
We'll talk about it in detail next quarter.
It basically has to do with the some equipment that we want to buy but we're in negotiations stages so we'll just talk more about that later.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious the incremental CapEx that you have for the acreage you acquired is any -- is there one county in particular where that is going to be directed? I guess I'm particularly interested in if you're going to drill a well in Wyoming County in '13.
The one we're trying to premier first is in Wyoming County.
And that would be at the best middle of fourth quarter but that's where we're shooting for first.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then going back to the Range Trust area and the graph that you guys have in your press release.
I'm curious can you talk a bit about what kind of gathering line pressure you're currently producing against and where -- what gathering pressure you'd like to see in a mature gathering system? Bill addressed a little bit of that in his conversation about putting on compression.
Anywhere where we don't have compression which I would say is about 2/3 of the production we have right now we're flowing against basically 1 100 pounds 1 100 to 1 200 pounds.
Ultimately this field will be probably 100 pounds.
But when we talk about putting on compression today we're talking about going down to about 400 pounds.
It's a 2-stage compression.
Yes.
It's 2 stages.
It'll work its way down.
So you'll see us talk over the next few years and getting everything down to 400 pounds.
And then you'll see another group that will come back later.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That might be enough to do some kindergarten level fluid dynamics or something like that.
Our next question comes from Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve I was wondering if you could maybe give us your thoughts longer-term on basis differentials out of the Marcellus realizing that you largely addressed this through your firm but just wanted to get your thoughts on it.
And do you think for companies who don't have firm we could see kind of the seasonal type of market in the shoulder season somewhat like we saw the Rockies back in the day? So I just wanted to get your thoughts on what basis could look like over time.
I think for the next few years at least it's going to be very volatile.
And depending on where you're at and who's putting what in what lines you could have big swings.
And we've seen it several times in the last 1.5 years.
I think it continues for the next few years.
Ultimately all of our -- everything we've done says that Marcellus fills up to northeast and it has to go back to the South and Midwest.
As it starts going back in the South and Midwest it's competing with gas that's already there.
And so that differential has to ultimately get more into national type differential range.
So I don't know what the exact timing is if that's 3 years out or 5 years out.
But what we use for differential out to about 3 years going out is a minus $0.22 to $0.23 at NYMEX average.
So I think you're going to see a lot of bouncing around but it's heading towards that direction.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just -- as you've added some firm transportation I just wanted to see if you could talk about the competitive dynamics how expensive is it to the firm transportation out of the basin? The firm that we announced yesterday really is not firm.
It's gathering capacity to get us to the firm.
And then we had just a small amount of firm we talked about in our press release and Bill talked about.
There's plenty of people who want to build pipe and there is some projects that still are not fully subscribed.
And really while there's several companies talking about needing it we haven't seen upward pressure on the cost to the firm at all.
Just because there's a lot of people who build this someone starts pushing some of the prices up.
So I don't know that there's a reason to believe that that will go up significantly over any period of time here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just my final question Steve.
You talked a little bit about the Brown Dense as well as the Bakken.
What is the -- your future thoughts on New Ventures from here? And could M&amp;A come into the picture in terms of adding another area outside of the Marcellus and the Fayetteville? Yes.
You kind of asked a 2-part question there.
I'll start with the M&amp;A part.
We actually look at various kinds of projects and we look at areas all the time.
And our M&amp;A from our standpoint is an extension of our exploration in that what we're looking for -- it may be an area where we've look to get into and you can't get into the conventional leasing but you might buy some production to get into it or somehow figure out how to start get a seed point and grow up at seed point.
So we're looking all the time.
And the classic case of doing that was the acquisition we did in the Marcellus where we could do a bolt-on in an area we want to continue to expand in.
On the exploration side we believe strongly in the exploration component that we have.
We'll continue doing exploration.
And you'll have some projects that work and you'll have some projects that don't seem are going work.
And we -- certainly the Bakken we said is in that category.
All the other ones that we're working on today we think we can still make it work.
And we'll figure out if it can or can't as we go through.
And so we're excited.
I think I said this several times but we've got about 1.3 million acres not counting New Brunswick that we're working with or call it the normal exploration thing they expect from us.
And going forward for the next at least 3 or 4 or 5 years expect us in that 1.3 million 1.5 million acre range.
Some will go out of the system because they're successful.
Some will go out because they're not successful and we'll keep adding to it.
Our discussion comes from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Just a kind of a very specific question as most has been answered.
Can -- the wells in the Marcellus per quarter bounced around a little bit as you got pads coming online.
And you give us an idea of the number of wells you'll put on production in the third quarter and fourth quarter? And then does that ever get kind of load-leveled at a flat level or is does it kind of bounce between 20 and 30? Our expectation is that that will continue at about probably about 25 wells.
We're going to put on 100 wells this year or maybe a couple more.
You look forward to how that balances out in the sort of Bradford County area.
We'll get about sub 35 37 of those.
The Range area will get about 50 to -- 55 to 60 of those and.
Then we will schedule the remainder across the piece.
And so you'll see us again not change our total more than I announced and we'll just stay on sort of this pattern.
The first quarter was a little bit lower.
The second quarter was a little bit higher to catch back up and you'll see us kind of do that be in that range.
And just a follow-up on that is there pipeline capacity already run to Chesapeake acreage or is that something that is in roughly $50 million of capital that you added? In the Susquehanna area were we have overlap obviously in the interest that just joined up with ours those -- any of that opportunity is covered by our transportation capacity.
Out and about in the Tioga and some of the other areas we're evaluating there are some existing transportation arrangements and there are some that we have yet to work through.
But we're still in the evaluation stage on that.
And that will be part of the timing of where exactly we drill.
And one of the reasons we drill in Wyoming there is a pipeline down there that we think we can get into.
And Bill mentioned Tioga.
The Penn Virginia line goes right through our acreage in Tioga and we already have some capacity on that line and we're looking at how to get some more capacity and some more firm takeaway out of there.
So those Susquehanna and Tioga and Wyoming at least have some basic infrastructure.
When we start talking about the other acreage like in Sullivan County that's -- you are going to have to build some pipeline takeaway there.
So our first wells in those areas will be more trying to figure out what's there so we could justify pipelines.
Our next question comes from Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On -- so it looks like in the Bradford well -- the declines are maybe not as you had initially feared.
Does that change how you're thinking about the well design in terms of lateral length and sort of the frac density? It instructs us I think is probably the best to say that.
We wanted to try to test sort of some end members of frac density a combination of that flow methodology and frac design.
That has given us one of those.
We'll continue to look for opportunities.
In fact I think we have another one planned for another what I'll call high-rate test or high-density high-flow rate number of those methodologies and we'll continue to put that into our thinking.
Right now as I said before I think we're happy with the sort of 240-stage spacing.
Although we're not final that certainly instructs us.
Lateral lengths are governed by a couple things.
One just economics and opportunities to extend them.
And certainly we're doing that.
The other piece of that is unit geography.
And you'll see us drill different lateral lengths in some areas just depending on unit size.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have an early read on what the EUR might be for that well? Not really.
It's -- we're still pretty early in that.
And -- but we'll -- as we figure that out we'll get back to you on it.
It will be a significant...
It will be bigger.
It will be significant.
And I've said this in the past we do have some 15 Bcf wells already on our books.
There's one of the longer lateral in the tighter first is going to be well above that.
Got it.
And just a question on the well cost.
You've talked about well cost coming down in the Marcellus but when I look at sort of CapEx per well with the latest guidance versus the initial guidance it moved up a bit.
Is that to see what the difference is? Is that a more of facilities cost or new areas? Our -- you'll recall from -- compared to previous quarters our average stage -- average number of fracs is moving up.
So it will work into the average.
And as we get more consistent around 17 stage fracs that's where you'll see the variance in well costs primarily.
We're drilling with -- under contract with our -- half are our own rigs and half of third parties so those costs are fairly fixed and understood.
Again the incremental fracs to our sort of base frac contract in Marcellus are at a much lower level.
And that number is also well-understood and agreed.
So it's going to -- a lot of the will just depend entirely on sort of the mix and the lateral length and the number of stages per lateral.
Our next question comes from with Gil Yang with Discern Investments.
Inc</strong> Could you talk about the LOE whether or not you've decided to increase the compression gathering costs from the Marcellus.
Are any of those costs due to capacity that you're paying for that you're not fully utilizing? Maybe transportation in there or is there -- is that a trend a cost trend that we should expect to see as Marcellus grows? No.
It doesn't have anything to do with capacity we're not using now.
Will is saying in the Fayetteville shale there are some capacity that we are not using.
But that would be under the transportation side that you'd see and it is about $0.07 an M right now.
On that LOE the basic difference is we have an escalator clause with our gathering company.
And you have -- it's a little bit of increase on the escalation this year on that portion of it.
And then because of gas price you're -- basically the compression gas that you use in flu [ph] was up a little bit also.
And those are your 2 major areas.
Inc</strong> All right.
And the rates? Sorry? And also included in that is the mix of gathering costs as we ramp Range further and further along that gathering in that areas have been a slightly higher cost and than in the Bradford County area.
So that's a part of it.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And the second question I have is based on the mix of wells you're drilling in the areas you're drilling in the Fayetteville can you sort of predict where your Fayetteville well costs are going to be trending for the remainder of the year? I think that you'll see the costs probably right around where they are.
A couple of things of note that could -- that might tweak that a little bit.
The complete -- the external -- our third-party completion contracts that we have a gas price trigger in them.
And so as gas prices go up and if we saw a quarter -- and this is a look back quarter so that's when happens you see gas prices go up.
There's an adjustment that will increase potentially increase the cost of that.
At the same time we continue to drill faster and faster.
And so -- and our own pumping company takes on more and more of the frac load.
And so that's sort of an offsetting increase that could bring them back down.
But we think that 2 3 number is a pretty reasonable number going forward with all those moving parts.
Our next question comes from Robert Christensen [ph] with Canaccord.
As you left it I think last quarter you were seeking to buy firm transportation up in the Marcellus from those that had basically slowed their drilling effort.
I just wondered what the markets sort of the secondary market of FTE looks like to you guys right now.
One of the things we're doing at end last quarter which we've done is make sure that we had insurance on a line called the Constitutional line.
It's supposed to be used [ph] in 2015.
We want to make sure that we had firm that if that line got delayed we didn't have to delay anything we were doing.
We've done that.
We've got that in shape.
We also wanted to fill in some holes in 2014 and then some holes we had in 2015.
Most of that is done.
We still have a little bit more to do.
And so part of the answer is we look at 2014 2015 there are small pieces you can buy from various places and fill in the holes.
So when you start looking say "I want to have a layer of 50 million or 100 million a day and I want it for 4 or 5 years " that is a really tight market.
And there's a little bit as I've mentioned that some projects that are either on the drawing board that we'll start next year or on the tail ends where we're that doing that work that we can get a little bit from.
But certainly we're going to need some more pipe out of the area.
And we're going to have to commit to some of that pipes as it goes through.
We're trying to figure out who that is we commit to and do that relatively quickly so some of the lines could get built.
My second question relates to the Sharp well.
That well in the lower smack of touched down in a high-pressure area.
I mean it was 6 7 miles away from where you had been drilling.
I was questioning is it -- we're all trying to understand the aerial extent of high pressure.
Yes.
Let me just give you a little perspective.
As you said it was 6 or 7 miles away from where we had drilled.
It's about 6 miles from our well that a private company drilled and put online earlier this year.
That well is a vertical well and there's a long story behind it.
Basically it's going to be a commercial well at Brown Dense.
And so we drilled halfway between our production and their production.
It did have a high pressure in the well that we drilled in the Sharp well.
And as we said we frac-ed -- we're going to frac across the entire vertical interval.
We frac-ed the lowest amount of that in the production rates we talked about that earned 125 000 a day.
It was just in that first of 4 stages of fracs.
Our last question comes from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question more about the compression issues that were brought up earlier on the Fayetteville.
When you look at the reserves that were I guess compared to the end of last year how much of that was a result of I guess the impression needs there in the field? I'd say 0.
It's really not a compression issue.
We're talking about that LOE being up a little bit.
You have to run the compressors.
And so if gas price goes up a little bit that feed around the compressor -- I mean the gas you use around the compressor goes up a little bit.
So we'll always have that.
Hopefully that number goes up quite a bit because gas prices went up quite a bit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And up to the Bakken I guess given the well result out there sounds like you're going to I guess stop that program or is -- should we be looking to impair any of the acreage you have up there? Or is that -- or will you test more down the road? This is Craig Owen.
We'll certainly explore our options as was mentioned earlier.
As a full-cost company we don't have impairment by play.
We kind of analyze that as -- in a total pool basis.
And that would be continually be a part of our full cost ceiling test every quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Have you disclose the total amount of the I guess the spend you have on acreage up there? We have not but it's roughly $100 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just a small amount.
All right.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
I started the conversation today saying I'm excited.
Hopefully you could tell why I was excited as we went through the call and you saw our press release today.
Our strategy is to provide ongoing value to our shareholders.
And we really concentrate on trying to do something that the others can't and we think that's important to being in the business.
And so we challenge ourselves every day to consistently make better decisions.
We want to learn faster.
We continually ask how we can develop our fields wiser than anyone else can and then we drive innovation throughout the company.
That's the real thing I'm excited about.
The numbers are great but we continue to innovate we continue to learn and that innovation takes several forms.
The one we really look at is that incongruity the anomaly that small little hint that leads to things like the Fayetteville and the new Marcellus plays.
And I think this quarter shows progress in all kinds of innovation.
It shows progress in all of our drivers.
And as a result the new heights in many of our key metrics.
I think the shareholders deserve nothing less from us.
And I'm excited that next quarter we should be able to see more of that.
This year had already provided significant upward revisions to our plans.
And as we look into next quarter I'm excited again to talk with you about how we did and added more value.
Thank you for listening today.
Have a great -- and for the certainly ones in Houston but the across the U.S.
have a cool weekend.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Senior VP of Corporate Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our third quarter 2013 results you can find a copy of all of this on our website at swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the Forward-looking Statements sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
To begin we posted record results in the third quarter.
Not only did we set new records from production EBITDA and cash flow but each of our operating teams achieved new milestones as well.
I will let Bill and Craig recap how we achieved these strong results.
But before we do that I'd like to address a few questions that you might have.
First question: did SWN curtail any gas from Marcellus in the third quarter and do we expect any curtailments in the fourth quarter? Answer to both of those are no.
We put our system in place to purchase firm and follow that firm curve just like we have in the Fayetteville.
It's worked well in the Fayetteville and it worked well for us in the third quarter in the Marcellus.
We'll talk more about that takeaway later in the call.
One thing that I do want to note though is on the marketing side we had a little bit of extra firm during the quarter and we were actually able to buy some gas at less than $1 and sell it at $3.60 at another point.
I don't know if we'll be able to do that in the future but it just shows you that having firm several points is valuable.
Second question that you might have out there: some of the numbers aren't growing perfectly upwards and sometimes those are 30-day rates sometimes those are 60-day rates sometimes those are the fourth quarter guidance.
But does this mean we should expect bad things in the fourth quarter or next year or 3 years or 5 years down the road? We'll be happy later on to talk about all the details you want as far as the numbers and which way they're trending and how important those numbers are.
You'll see a lot of the answers are similar to ones you've seen in the past where we're in a slightly different area or we've got slightly different pressures going against other kinds of line pressures.
But the key question is should we expect something bad in the future? Your expectation should be the same as ours.
And our expectations are high and we think things will be great in the future.
Third Brown Dense.
I really struggled with how to describe where we are in Brown Dense.
We drilled our first commercial well and plan to drill 3 more wells by the end of the year.
And that's where I start to struggle.
What do I tell you? We're almost ready to declare it commercial.
We're getting close to knowing the key things needed to make it commercial.
The text that Brad prepared and all the senior management agreed to says not ready to call it economic but encouraged.
For now I'd like to tell you where I'm at on it.
Where I'm at today is that I believe we have a new discovery and our task for our company is to figure out how big.
Today if you asked me to size maybe a township it could be much much bigger when it's all done.
And our second task once we figure out how big is how fast we can get it into the pipeline and get it to the bottom line.
Those are the 3 questions I want to address to begin with.
Now I'll turn it over to Bill for more details on our operations and then to Craig for a recap of our financial results Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
To echo Steve's comments we had a terrific quarter which was again driven by our proven industry-leading operating capability and really underpinned by our curiosity and constant focus on delivering more to our shareholders.
Our Marcellus properties continued on our path -- planned path of significant growth by reaching a gross operating production rate of over 600 million cubic feet per day of gas in August.
We also added firm transportation as Steve mentioned enabling this growth to continue.
In our Fayetteville our focus on constantly improving the value of this huge asset continues to produce results as we placed 2 of the highest-rate wells ever drilled and completed on production during the quarter with IP rates near 10 million cubic feet per day of gas.
In addition we continued testing the upper Fayetteville formation.
And in October we brought on 2 wells producing at the highest rates we've seen to date from Upper Fayetteville wells.
As Steve mentioned briefly in our Brown Dense play we have drilled and completed our first economic well the Sharp vertical well located in Union Parish Louisiana.
This well reached a peak rate of 600 barrels per day of 52 API gravity oil and 1.3 million cubic feet per day of 1 240 Btu gas.
After 88 days on production this well continues to flow at 530 barrels of oil per day and 1.1 million cubic feet per day on a 16/64-inch choke.
We'll speak more about this and our plans in a few minutes.
But I must say overall we completed the third quarter with a 19% growth in our total production and have made a third upward revision to our production guidance for the year.
This is testimony to the creativity hard work dedication and focus of all of our teams on delivering more value in all they do.
Let me begin in the Marcellus where we placed 22 wells on production during the quarter which led to net production that was almost 200% greater than compared to a year ago rising to approximately 45 billion cubic feet per day of gas up from 15 billion cubic feet per day of gas in the third quarter of 2012.
We continue to be pleased with our results as we delineate our acreage in Susquehanna County.
We placed 12 wells on production in this area during the third quarter and gross operating production was 267 million cubic feet per day at September 30 from a total of 61 wells up from 184 million cubic feet per day of gas at July 1.
We added another phase of compression in northern Susquehanna County last week which now allows over 2/3 of our wells in that area to produce at higher rates.
Additional compression is planned to be in service in the area in the first quarter of 2014.
We're planning and testing more of the acreage in the county as we move north and east towards the New York border which will begin in 2014.
In December we will drill our first well in Sullivan County on the acreage we acquired earlier this year and we'll be drilling in Wyoming and Tioga Counties in early 2014.
On the gathering side our midstream gathering company was gathering 344 million cubic feet per day from 89 miles of owned gathering lines across all of our Marcellus acreage out of a total of 611 million cubic feet of gas per day being produced at September 30.
It's well known that basis differentials in the Marcellus area widened dramatically at certain points beginning in June during the entire quarter.
And as Steve mentioned our gas marketing team did an outstanding job of getting the majority of our gas to high-value sales points with better prices during the quarter.
Our ability to move our Marcellus gas to better-priced and more liquid markets is built on our strategy of securing firm transportation capacity to move our gas out of the area.
In fact we've just executed an agreement to secure additional firm transportation capacity on Millennium subject to completing a new interconnect project beginning in November of 2014 for an additional 150 million cubic feet of gas per day.
This increases our total firm capacity out of the basin to approximately 872 million cubic feet per day by the end of 2014 and over 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day by the end of 2015.
And we won't stop there.
We'll keep you updated as we are able to obtain more firm transportation capacity and in order to move our gas to the best-priced areas in the country.
We expect to have another year of very strong results in Marcellus in 2014 and we'll be giving you more information on our plans for Marcellus in our capital program update in December.
In the Fayetteville Shale we placed 89 operated horizontal wells on production in the third quarter at a record initial production rate of 5 million cubic feet of gas per day.
And this rate was bolstered by an extremely good September where we placed on production 31 wells at an average initial rate of 5.4 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Results during the quarter included 2 of the strongest wells we've drilled and completed since we announced the play in 2004 the Sneed and the Ledbetter wells which achieved peak 24-hour production rates of 10.1 and 9.2 million cubic feet of gas per day respectively.
As I mentioned earlier we also had encouraging results from a couple of Upper Fayetteville tests placed on production in early October that achieved a peak 24-hour production rates of 6.6 and 6.7 million cubic feet per day of gas respectively.
We're continuing to evaluate this reservoir and believe that it could provide material additional gas resource to capture over time.
Not only did we put online some of the largest wells in the play during the quarter which contributed to our highest-ever quarterly IP rate in Fayetteville but we're also seeing tangible benefits from changes we are making in our completion and flowback procedures in certain parts of the play that are enhancing early well productivity.
We began a procedure of resting wells for a short period of time only 10 to 20 days before we placed them on production.
Our results to date have shown that by resting these wells before we place them on production we're seeing lower produced water volumes and therefore lower water-handling costs and higher initial gas volumes in some areas.
We've completed a total of 55 tests to date and plan to have around additional 20 wells to place on production in the fourth quarter.
It's now -- it now is a standard procedure in 2 pilots our Pike [ph] and Sturgeon [ph] areas where historically wells are relatively deeper and exhibited higher initial water production rates.
Those areas have shown the greatest benefit to date.
Our completed well costs were $2.6 million in the quarter up from $2.3 million in the second quarter due to longer laterals and deeper average vertical depths.
Through the first 9 months our average well cost has been $2.3 million per well.
Our vertically integrated services continued to be a significant benefit in lowering our well costs and that has resulted in an estimated $380 000 per well savings so far in 2013.
Let me move on to new ventures where we remain encouraged.
I'll change that to excited about the work that's going on in the Brown Dense exploration program where we're seeing it pay off and believe that the potential value creation from this project could be substantial for us over time.
As I mentioned briefly we have recently drilled and completed our first economic well the Sharp which is a vertical well located in Union Parish Louisiana.
This well was completed in 3 stages with resin-coated proppant and cross-linked gel and accessed the entire Brown Dense interval which is about 450 feet thick in this well.
The Sharp well has since flown -- shown a flattening production profile which is promising.
And we're encouraged about this result and we'll continue to watch the shape of its production profile over time.
Our next vertical well the Hollis was completed with 3 stages and again accessed the entire Brown Dense interval.
The well commenced flowback last week and still unloading.
We'll keep you abreast of that in the future.
Our McMahen well located in Columbia County Arkansas reached total depth last week and we expect to complete this well with 3 to 4 stages in late November.
We also spud our Plum Creek vertical test well in Union Parish last week with a target vertical depth of 9 500 feet.
As we capture and understand the learnings from various technical studies underway and our recent wells in the near term we will drill a series of vertical wells and apply what we're learning from these vertical wells to see if we can unlock more contactable reservoir volume with horizontal wells in the future.
We continue to test not only different completion techniques but also different theories in each of these wells.
While I realize the results we are reporting to you are not only -- are only on a few wells with short production histories we're excited about the potential in the Brown Dense.
We're learning more in each -- with each well we drill and making solid progress on best practices for drilling and completing these wells.
We believe we have moved our understanding and our performance in the play forward and we'll keep working to unlock this resource and further improve our results.
In the Denver-Julesburg Basin in Colorado our oil play there the Staner well which included a 3 400 foot lateral with 10 stages completed was placed on production in July and reached a peak rate of 146 barrels of oil per day.
We'll continue to test the Marmaton and Atoka with additional wells to be spud in the first quarter.
In Paradox Basin in Utah we'll continue to test our acreage with additional wells to be drilled in 2014.
And we continue to lease acreage in this area and will update everyone on our activity by the next quarter.
To close I'm very proud of the results we've had in the third quarter.
But more importantly I'm proud of the hard work and commitment that all of our teams have exhibited throughout the year.
We know that there's more work to be done to keep driving our costs down while increasing the innovation and the successful execution of every aspect of the projects we have before us.
And we remain really excited about our New Ventures projects and also are focusing on more exploration ideas to initiate next year.
We have much more to look forward to as we enter 2014.
I'll now turn it over to Craig Owen who will discuss our financial results Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Our results in the third quarter were excellent driven by higher production volumes and higher gas prices.
Excluding noncash items we reported record net income of approximately $180 million or $0.51 per share in the third quarter compared to net income of $132 million or $0.38 per share last year.
Cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was a record $527 million up 7% sequentially and up 26% compared to the third quarter of 2012 and also within $15 million of our capital investments for the quarter.
Operating income for our Exploration and Production segment was $223 million up 51% compared to $148 million in the third quarter of 2012.
We realized an average gas price of $3.60 per Mcf during the third quarter compared to $3.41 per Mcf last year and have 84 Bcf of our remaining 2013 projected natural gas production hedged through fixed price swaps at a weighted average price of $4.68 per MMBtu.
We also have 233 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2014 at an average price of $4.41 per MMBtu.
As for field differentials we currently have protected approximately 74 Bcf of our remaining 2013 projected natural gas production from potential -- from the potential widening basis differentials through hedging activities and sales arrangements at an average basis differential to NYMEX gas prices of approximately $0.06 per Mcf.
This includes approximately 20 Bcf of our expected Marcellus volumes at $0.08 per Mcf.
In total we expect a $0.55 discount to NYMEX for the fourth quarter of 2013 which includes transportation and fuel charges.
Our cash operating costs of approximately $1.25 per Mcfe in the third quarter continue to be a competitive advantage for us.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.87 per Mcfe in the third quarter up from $0.79 per Mcfe last year primarily due to higher third-party compression and gathering costs in the Marcellus Shale partially offset by lower salt water disposal costs in the Fayetteville Shale.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.24 per Mcfe up from $0.21 per Mcfe a year ago due to higher personnel costs.
Taxes other than income taxes were at $0.09 per Mcfe for both periods and our full cost pool amortization rate fell to $1.07 per Mcfe compared to $1.30 per Mcfe last year.
Operating income for our Midstream Services segment for the quarter was up 15% to approximately $87 million compared to last year.
At September 30 our debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 35% which is flat compared to year end 2012 and our liquidity continues to be in excellent shape.
We currently expect our debt-to-total capitalization ratio at the end of 2013 to be approximately 34% to 36%.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter the combination of another quarter of strong production and higher gas prices compared to last year points toward more records to be achieved by year end.
In addition we expect to provide our initial outlook for our 2014 capital program production and expenses in early to mid-December.
And that concludes my comments.
So we'll now turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Steve I'm not sure who wants to take this one but if I could try 2 1 on the Brown Dense and 1 on the Fayetteville.
On the Brown Dense I understand clearly you're quite enthusiastic about the potential new discovery you're calling this morning.
But can you give us some idea of scale repeatability location count or at least an idea of why -- what's changed here with this latest vertical well that gives you greater confidence that this thing is going to work? There's several things that go into it.
Certainly how we're frac-ing and what we're seeing on the frac-ing side is giving a little encouragement.
Really it just goes back to historically what we've found to date.
If you go back to our third well that we drilled that's the first well we drilled in a high-pressure area.
That well has continued to produce fairly well.
And it looks like cash on cash we'll get our money back on that well.
The -- I think it was the fifth well that we drilled was -- it's called the Dean well.
It's a vertical well.
And again it won't make much rate of return but it will make a little bit rate of return.
And then you've got this well that we just drilled and to put this well in perspective with what we think the production curve is going to be going forward.
This well actually cost us $10 million to drill.
It had some issues that we had on the drilling side and we also had a lot of science.
But at $10 million this well is still above our 1.3 PVI that's our economic hurdle.
The Hollis well the well that we just finished and just put on production had a little bit of trouble up-hole with a zone getting through it but it was basically a clean well.
That well today after we've done all the fracs on it is less than $7 million and we think we can get that down to $6 million.
Well $6 million well with any rates anywhere near this is a high like 1.8 to 1.9 PVI which is high high 80% 90% rate of return type numbers.
And when you look at the map where those 3 wells are across the area that covers well over a township.
And that's why I said early on that we're fairly comfortable in that general area of the high pressure we've got more of these to go after.
We just work on the costs a little bit and a little bit we've learned on the frac-ing side.
Research Division</strong> Just to be clear Steve is this isolated to the high-pressure area? And what proportion of your acreage does that represent at this point at least what you think is prospective? We don't know if it's an isolated high-pressure area.
Almost all the wells we've drilled recently have been in the high pressure.
When I say almost all of them the wells we're drilling right now we internally call corner posts.
The ninth well that we drilled is the farthest south and west step out we've done.
The 10th well is back in -- on the Arkansas side of the border for what we're doing.
The 11th well is due north 8 or 9 miles.
So I can answer that question a lot better in another quarter or 2 quarters.
But if you just take the high-pressure area we're looking at somewhere in the 150-plus thousand acre range.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And maybe -- I hate to labor the point but you're not thinking that this is a vertical program not a horizontal program? We don't know.
In the Fayetteville early on in the -- I think in the Eagle Ford early on a lot of these other places early on they were vertical wells and then later went back to horizontal.
Theoretically horizontals ultimately ought to be the right answer.
But it's a lot cheaper to do it today with the verticals and we can learn faster doing verticals.
So we'll continue doing that for a while.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up Steve is just a quick one on the Fayetteville lead.
You've routinely given us an idea of what your economic backlog looks like at different gas prices.
Obviously it sounds like things have changed quite dramatically with this difference in your completion technique the resting and so on.
So I'm just wondering if you could help us at -- you've talked -- previously talked about 450 [ph] was a kind of bogey for stepping up spending? Could you just frame for us what the -- what -- how your backlog changes with these better well results and when you might start to think about getting a little bit more -- putting more money toward back in the Fayetteville? And I'll leave it there.
I don't know that we have a good answer on any changes to what I've talked about in the past as far as number of wells yet.
And the reason for that is when you look at the Upper Fayetteville for instance the Upper Fayetteville historically we just kind of lumped those together and so we have so much in place.
It was such a recovery factor.
Now that we've got an area and again it's over 100 000 acres it doesn't look like it's communicated to the lower.
You've got to go back relook at your gas in place across the whole field and make sure that you weren't conservative on that part.
Well to the extent that you might be conservative there could be a lot of locations that go into it and we're early stages of understanding that.
And then the completion techniques and the resting the wells and the changes we've done in frac so a little more sand.
The best way I can categorize that is we're learning each individual part of the field how to do it better.
And so the northern part of the field putting more sand a little less water seems to be working fairly good but the resting frankly isn't worth the effort.
Statistically if you look at it you get a little bit extra early on but it's not worth it.
Southern parts of the field that water gave us a lot of trouble before.
We weren't getting the high enough initial rates to get us that first cash flow that we needed.
And there were a lot of wells that would be put in a marginal category and we're still trying to figure out how that works.
But the theme here is after 3 000 wells we're getting to the point where we're fine-tuning the individual parts of the field and we're seeing good things as we do that.
Our next question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Steve you mentioned in your prepared remarks being a lot closer to knowing what it takes to make commercial oil in the Brown Dense.
We kind of just went through the high pressure obviously being one of them.
Is there any kind of other things that in hindsight look to be obvious characteristics of making this work beyond kind of just being in the high-pressure zone? Yes.
And again I need to caution you there.
We're in the high pressure but I'm not sure that is a criteria you have to have to make it work.
Certainly the higher pressure the higher initial rates those kind of things so you always want higher pressure but I -- we just don't know enough about the whole area yet to know what works what doesn't work.
There's some things we're learning.
Frankly I don't want to discuss those right now.
I think that gives us some competitive advantage maybe in some other plays.
So I'll just kind of leave it there.
We are learning some things.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And you guys mentioned the thickness on the Sharp well is about 450 feet thick.
How does that compare to previous tests you guys have done in the play? And how does that compare to the McMahen and the Hollis? In general the thickness is a little bit thinner to the north in Arkansas and then thickens as you go into Louisiana.
So of our first well the Roberson well if I remember right that was a little under 400 feet 350 feet or so.
And when you get to say the Hollis Hollis is a little bit thicker starts approaching 500 feet.
But the interval is between 350 in a very shallow part of the area down to 500.
Our next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> A great quarter.
Can you talk about the -- it looks like the Fayetteville is throwing out a fair amount of free cash.
Can you talk about that and how you plan to allocate capital there going forward? And is the goal to maintain production flat there you think? Or with these new well results do you think that that might be more growth there going forward? We'll give our 2014 guidance here probably sometime in mid-December.
But we've talked about in the past that we want to get the Fayetteville Shale and we'd like to get the Marcellus as quickly as we can into cash flow-positive arena and then make decisions about what you want to do with that excess cash flow.
As you said we are generating cash flow now.
We'll continue to generate I think into 2014.
And the real question we have now is we've got 8 rigs running in the Fayetteville.
Do you add a rig or do you keep those 8 rigs running? How do you do it into 2014? We'll talk about that later in the year.
I don't think you'll see us significantly increase our rigs but that mean double the rigs or go 4 or 5 more rigs.
But certainly we'll tweak that a little bit.
And kind of a back way to get into your question about holding production flat it takes about 7 rigs drilling with 6-day average wells to hold the production flat.
So if all you're doing is 8 to 9 rigs it will grow but it will grow at single-digit numbers.
Inc</strong> But that 7 rigs is based on the historical well results right? Right right.
And I don't have enough information now to tell you what might happen if you had a little bit better wells.
Inc</strong> Right.
And can you just detail the specific -- as specific as you're willing to talk about the completion changes that contributed to the better well results in the Fayetteville? Yes there were a couple of things that we did.
First of all in the areas where we -- the $10 million a day well for example it's relatively deeper in the area.
It's probably more like 5 200 feet in vertical depth.
We had longer laterals so we're at about 8 500 completed lateral length with 18 frac stages.
We're trying to get more and more proppant in and we put about 7 million of pounds of proppant in that well and 200 000 barrels of fluid.
The other side of this has been looking at how we flow them back and certainly there are some efficiencies in getting pressure reductions out by removing tubing streams and replacing them with some shorter laterals that can allow for wellhead pressure drop -- pressure losses to be improved and improve friction pressure losses as well.
And we've made some changes in how we flow back to the midstream company in terms of debottlenecking pressure constraints there as well.
So the result of all of that let us see some quite a bit of improvement in the overall performance and we're testing that across the piece.
And I think the $10 million a day well IP was very focused on trying to test productivity from that particular area but we're seeing higher IPs across the space.
It's early on that -- it will be kind of boring on some of our responses on there.
But...
Sorry.
It's not that I mean that Bill is boring but the -- I think the thing is we've looked at the system wherever we're adding we look at every little point where there might be a bottleneck we're trying to get rid of those bottlenecks plus doing something to it.
And we went specifically with a couple of these wells and said "Okay do all the things you think you could to make it the best you can." And now you're seeing what that best you can is.
Inc</strong> And how much did that well cost? That well -- the $10 million a day well was $4.6 million including some science and some additional costs for the testing itself.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Steve you anticipated one of my questions in your prepared comments about fourth quarter volumes.
And looking at it especially relative to the beat versus your guidance that you put up in 3Q for volumes it looks like there's just -- I look at it as 1.5% sequential growth for Q4 versus about 6.6% for 3Q over 2Q.
So it looks like that's going to be an anomalously low quarter-over-quarter growth that you're guiding to.
So am I looking at it the right way? And can you talk about some of the factors that may be at play there? Well there's kind of 2 things in general.
In the Marcellus we won't have quite as many completions in the fourth quarter as we did in the third quarter and frankly the first quarter's going to have a lot more completions the way it looks.
And you say why is that happening? We are drilling on pads for the most part and depends on which pad comes up.
If a couple of those pads move in early in the -- earlier than we thought you might see a bump in the fourth quarter.
If they stay where they're at today first quarter gets to see that bump.
The other thing is Millennium has said that they're going to have their pipeline down for 8 days.
And we do have quite a bit of our capacity going down that Millennium line.
And that's a scheduled maintenance.
So when they do that we factor that into our fourth quarter guidance.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's exactly the kind of color I was looking for.
And then the second thing if I could ask the Upper Fayetteville I think -- I believe I heard you say that you have 100 000 acres prospective for that.
But what I'm really curious about is with 2 of those wells that came on over 6 million a day I think my question's along the lines of a are those representative of what you think the Upper Fayetteville can do; and b if they -- if it is representative how much of that is reflective of better reservoir and how much of it is reflective of better improved completion designs? Yes again I don't know that we want to go into a lot of details there.
We think we're learning some things that we can use in other places and so I don't want to go a lot of detail.
But we've got now 30 -- roughly 30 wells in the Upper Fayetteville.
We've had some wells in the past that were very good wells just not this good.
We've got at least one well over 5 Bcf that we drilled a couple of years ago.
So we just -- we spent the last year 1.5 years delineating the area.
And just like I talked about earlier now it's time to fine-tune and as we're fine-tuning we're getting better wells.
Will all the wells in the 100 000 acres be that? No.
But we're kind of learning the formula about the Upper Fayetteville as well.
And again there's some things there in that formula we think we can apply in some other areas.
So we'll just kind of leave it at that.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Going to the Marcellus production looked very strong during the quarter.
IPs which I think you kind of highlighted in your opening comments were down quarter-on-quarter.
And sometimes it can be difficult to draw conclusions when we look at the chart that shows on one hand low IPs in the earlier days but then performance that seems to be trending above your type curve.
So I wondered if you could add some color as to a how the performance of recently drilled wells compares to past Marcellus wells particularly those that are greater than 13 stages; b the degree to which midstream-related delays may impact the first couple hundred days of production; and then c what you're seeing from wells drilled in northeast Susquehanna County and if you've reached critical mass there.
To address the -- sort of the IPs upfront you'll know that in the range area Susquehanna County where we're doing a lot of drilling and completing we also have a series of compressor stations and midstream gathering that is required to get those wells online.
And in the quarter we were completing the compressor station to get to another tranche of the wells.
So now we have 2/3 of the wells that we have gathered in that Susquehanna County area in the Range Trust now on compression.
So you'll see those IPs as those pressures come down improve.
We've got solid performance.
We're very confident that as we move through the delineation of the range area wells are performing as we'd expected.
And you get a bit of pressure difference between one end of the acreage to the other but all in all we've now got quite a bit of confidence to go ahead and raise our overall gathering capacity get additional compression in and then move that forward.
So midstream is really just building out infrastructure not -- nothing to do with our long-haul capacity which is solidly locked up.
Yes.
And kind of a -- you didn't quite ask this question but where are we comfortable how do we feel about the wells and how much acreage is that going to -- if you think about our Susquehanna total acreage we've got about 130 000 acres.
We're very comfortable that 60 000 of that acres plus is as good as anything that's anyone's got out there.
And I think Bill mentioned in his comments going to what we call north range which is right along the New York border.
We're heading in that direction and we're still getting very good wells.
Now we do produce our wells a little different than some of the industry does.
Bill mentioned some of back pressure because of the compression we don't have near the choke size that some others do.
And so there's a lot of details that go into that.
And part of that goes to your question about 30- and 60-day numbers.
Some of our wells' peak rates are actually past the 30-day mark because of some of those issues and we want to be consistent and give 30-day numbers.
So some of that's just how we're doing what we're doing out there.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess in getting a new Midstream capacity there.
Does -- the gathering capacity is there an implied EUR type curve improvement relative to your expectations? I think there's partially -- the fact that we're seeing wells get unrisked whether you call that better wells or not we had risk wells before.
And partially it has to do with the new acreage the Chesapeake acreage and we talked about that I think on the last conference call where our ultimate target is to get up at least to 1.2 Bcf a day.
So it's a combination of both of those.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly it looks like at least based on the cash flow statement you've spent a little bit more than $1.6 billion in the first 9 months.
Can you just talk to the CapEx trajectory in the fourth quarter and then any early thoughts on next year? Well I think we've guided to $2.2 billion total and I think we're pretty much on that for the capital for the year.
So -- we'll have borrowed a little bit of money this year and depending what you want to use on the pricing next year and what you want to guess about capital next year; if you did $2.2 billion again next year and you're in a $4 price range we're basically close to neutral on our cash flow.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question goes to Hsulin Peng with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I was wondering if you can talk about your target well design in Marcellus just wanted to get a better understanding for the number of stages levelings in your standard well as well as well cost and also EUR expectations and whether that varies across the different parts in Marcellus.
We have an overall average of -- on frac design for Greenzweig at about 240-foot stage spacing.
That means about 17 frac stages per well.
We're inching that up a bit.
We do have right now 32 wells at 18 frac stages.
And -- but we're pretty comfortable at 240 in the Greenzweig range which represents Susquehanna and Bradford Counties makes sense.
Probably over in the Lycoming area we think that's -- you're more likely optimized around 500-foot stage spacing and we're doing some tests to determine that.
I think our lateral length numbers are really probably more directed -- or influenced sorry by the shape of the units and the geography as we do longer laterals in this area we'll adjust spacing accordingly.
Our well costs are running about $6.4 million on an average C-Lat well and we think that we've got some opportunities to improve on cost associated with those as we increase our activity and activity increases and there's more competition for services.
We are seeing completion costs come down partly due to the competition in the area and partly due to the fact that we have our own completion company which is helping us get additional competitive pricing in that arena as well.
The acreage varies and so we won't -- just like we do in the Fayetteville we won't lock in on 1 average stage spacing or completion recipe but we're being very targeted in how we go about that so we learn the most in the particular area.
And I'll just add it's a very similar story to the Fayetteville or to the Brown Dense.
To the north you're a little shallower a little lower pressure to the south and as you go in this case off to the south and west you're deeper and higher pressure.
So the mix is going to be a little bit different from quarter-to-quarter.
And there are going to be different EURs.
We're still trying to understand what those EURs are right now.
I can tell you that in general the wells that we currently have on our books for the end of last year going to this year have an upward pressure on the ultimate recovery on those wells.
We'll talk more about that when we talk about year-end numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's -- that was exactly what I was trying to get at in terms of the -- it seems like -- it sounds like there will be improvement in your EUR currently versus where you were at the end of 2012.
And then I guess my -- if I can ask my follow-up question.
Just in terms of the improvement in Fayetteville I was wondering how much testing or production history do you need to see before you could revise your EUR assumption? I think the answer to that is the same as almost any area.
You've got 2 general issues.
The quality of a well and how big an area the quality of that well is over.
And the quality of the well takes several months of production to figure out the quality and then you have to do it in other places to figure out how much of that's going to be.
So for instance in the upper Fayetteville we have a lot of wells.
We've been working on it for almost 2 years now.
So we feel better about it when you think about our Marcellus or you think about the Brown Dense or something we don't have near the wells and we're still learning a lot.
So each one of them is going to be a little bit different on size and how fast you change the reserves.
I'll just remind everyone when you do reserves SEC says you have to be 90% certain.
So there ought to be always kind of an upward pressure on your reserves if you're doing it right.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Steve back to the upper Fayetteville.
So could you just give us the implications in terms of number of possible locations or resource size given what you've done so far.
I think you said you've drilled I think over 30 wells I think you said and you got over 100 000 acres and talk about your plan too in terms of mixing up the lower Fayetteville with the upper Fayetteville drilling over the next year.
The upper Fayetteville is between 40% and 50% of the thickness of the lower Fayetteville.
So you're going to put it on wider spacing.
And we've talked about in the past that the typical spacing for the lower Fayetteville is 60 acres.
In some places it may be a little tighter than that.
Now this is going to be wider.
This will be 80- to 100-acre spacing.
And we'll drill it just like any other plays where you've got an upper lower or however you've done it.
One where they're on the pad we'll space out wells both on the lower and the upper at the same time.
So it's just 1 year in that part of the field.
And for the most part the acreage is on the northern part of our acreage block and some of the areas where we've done a lot of drilling in the past.
So as rigs move in there you'll see us drill more and so each quarter it's going to swing a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then back to the tables that you put in the press release.
So first with the Marcellus.
So if I look at that Marcellus table and I see in the third quarter you drilled the wells with the longest lateral length highest cost but the 30-day average rate is not as high.
It's actually on the lower end of the prior quarters you list there.
So is it...
Let me give you the easy answer right there.
The mix changed a lot.
The other quarters were all Bradford County.
It's a little deeper and it's certainly at higher pressure.
The pressure is what counts.
We flowed -- this quarter we have a lot of wells in the range area and we're flowing the whole thing as Bill said before against 1 100 pounds pressure.
600 or 700 pounds difference in bottom hole pressure translates if everything else is constant to a lower rate.
It doesn't mean the quality of the reservoir is any different doesn't mean anything more than now I've got a different differential between my service pressure and bottom hole pressure.
And that's what you're really seeing and what we're doing here.
On a per foot drilled per stage shot per cluster we're very comfortable with what we've done so far in that range Northern Susquehanna area.
It's every bit as good as what we're seeing in Bradford County.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it would not be a right and correct interpretation if we were to say that what you're doing in Susquehanna County is going to be less productive than what you've done in Bradford County? That would be a wrong interpretation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And moving over to that Fayetteville table so you've got the longest laterals the highest IP rates and you've increased the 30-day and 60-day from the last 2 quarters but the 30- and 60-day are lower than a bunch of the other quarters.
So what's the interpretation there? In some of the cases -- there's 2 pieces to this and it's kind of like I said in the beginning.
Some of it's location location location.
So the rigs are working in the southern part of the field now that is deeper.
Though there are some places where you can do longer laterals there versus some of the shallow portions of the field.
So again a little longer lateral.
But it's also different characteristics.
And if you think about it what Bill talked about on the rest of these wells you didn't change your EUR at all.
What you had was a low initial rate before that stayed low for a long period of time and you still got the EUR ultimately.
Now all we've done is figured out a way not to have the water come to the surface which gave you the higher IP and you get the whole thing back faster.
And that's not really interpreted much in the 30-day rates but as you get into the 60- 90- and 120-day rates you start catching back up with that curve.
So the curve does change a little bit in shape.
But it's really just a variance that you see going across there from various locations and the things we're trying to do in those locations.
Research Division</strong> But the EURs are not necessarily being less or lower going forward? Not anything we're seeing.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions on the Marcellus.
Historically you guys have talked about kind of running a 4-rig count to get to your growth expectations.
With the incremental capacity you have today in combination with improved well results do we expect any material change in your rig count or with the better wells versus your previous expectation you may be able to still hit that higher capacity with the same amount of CapEx.
And then just a second question in regards to the takeaway capacity I was wondering if you could give us any color in terms of how much the incremental takeaway capacity is going to cost on a transportation basis.
And then finally as you guys think about kind of the overall northeast market as pipes get connected into New York I was wondering if you could comment a little bit about how you think about basis in the New York market in 2014 and 2015.
You had more than 2 questions there.
I forgot your first one.
But we'll start backwards and then we'll get back to your first one.
The whole basis as we look out into the future and then what do we pay for the -- whatever we had in the newest announcement.
The $150 million a day actually is going to be relatively cheap.
We're paying about $0.10 for that.
So that's one of our cheaper rights that we're paying on any of it.
If you think about all of our firm that we've got the high side on it if we do back-to-back where you tie to 1 liquid point and then pay to another liquid point it can get as high as $0.50.
But most of it's in that $0.20 to $0.25 range.
And this is the low side of that.
As far as what's going on in the northeast and we've been talking about it for over year now that as the northeast fills you basically have balanced the country and you're going to have a minus and you'll long-term have a minus to the current plus that you've had over the last couple of years.
And we think that minus is something 20-plus cents ultimately.
Now over the short term it's going be dynamic and I don't know whether we can pick a point and say "Well this point's going to be bad this day and this point's going to be bad another day." You can still move gas around just like the example I used where we bought from one and took it to another point and made some money.
There's a lot of dynamics there you can move in fixed points.
But certainly over the next year to 1.5 years there's going to be times where a point has got issues and I think we should for the most part be in good shape where we can send to different points than whatever has the issue.
That's been our goal for whatever we're doing as we go through.
So that's kind of just a general statement there.
And what was your very first? First part was on rigs.
Yes on rigs.
Best thing on rigs to say is just stay tuned.
Now we're learning daily.
And the scenario you put together if you get better wells and you don't have any firm then yes you could drill with fewer rigs and go with it.
But we're looking for more firm.
We're continuing to learn about our areas and we already talked about that starting the end of this quarter we'll drill some wells in some new areas and start to learn from that.
Expect in 2014 we're going to have a series of wells that won't give much production in 2014 because it will just be learning about what we need to do and what size systems we need to put in in some of these new areas we have.
So that's all going to play into whatever 2014 and 2015 look like.
And as I said just stay tuned and we'll talk about that as we go through.
And I would add one further comment just like our teams in the Fayetteville the Marcellus team is doing a job of lowering the number of days to drill and becoming more and more efficient.
So following rigs versus following well count we're already seeing some rather dramatic reductions in time to drill.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you could elaborate on the well cost.
I know you talked about bringing 19 wells on in the Fayetteville which had strong IPs in excess of 6 million a day.
I just wanted to see what the average well cost or how many of those wells would've been drilled at your average $2.5 million range versus the higher well cost.
You mean the $4 million number that...
Research Division</strong> Exactly exactly.
Just trying to parse out...
There were -- and I don't even know if there's another well at $4 million.
But there's maybe 1 or 2 at $3.6 million range $3.8 million range but almost all of those were $2.5 million $2.6 million $2.4 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the bulk of those are at the lower well cost? That's right.
And we purposely did this test and as I said before we did a number of things in terms of testing and extending the lateral lengths quite far and a number of other things that added to that well cost.
If you think about the general increase in well cost this quarter the average lateral length goes up a couple of hundred feet.
We space our fracs about 300 feet apart.
So you're getting half to 2/3 more frac stage per well.
And that's really the whole cost.
Research Division</strong> And Steve as you talk about or think about looking at your Fayetteville EURs generally we've been running around the bulk of your inventory being spaced around 600 feet or just under 70 acres.
Is that still a pretty good assumption? That's fine.
Each area is a little bit different but that's fine.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my follow-up question is just looking at the Midstream segment.
Obviously Devon announced a transaction with Crosstex which was warmly received by Wall Street.
I was just wondering Steve as you think about potentially financing the -- or pardon me the Brown Dense where your head's at in terms of midstream? Well we will -- we'll -- as far as financing Brown Dense as we need the dollars we've got a lot of different ways we can finance that and we haven't hardly used any of our borrowing base.
We've got some other assets we can do some things with.
So I wouldn't just assume that we're going to scale up if and when we scale up Brown Dense that's something is going to happen in Midstream.
But in Midstream we think about that as truly a very good asset.
It generates a lot of money for us as we look at it it makes a lot more sense today for it to be inside our company than outside our company.
When you think about that LOE when we talk about 80-some-cents of LOE $0.60 of that is the Midstream part in both areas both Fayetteville and Marcellus.
It's actually a little bit more in Marcellus.
And so having that internal and especially when some of the people are little bit worried about gas price going forward and we need to be prepared if gas price goes down.
It's a big difference if you set up an MLP and you've got $0.60 going cash out the door versus having internal to you.
So we like where it's at today and we'll make decisions about what we want to do at the Midstream in the future.
But I just -- I wouldn't make the assumption that if the Brown Dense takes off and SWN needs capital that we're just going to do something with the Midstream -- before anything else that we're saying company or anything else.
Research Division</strong> Sounds like it's a core part of the business that you plan to keep for the time being? For the foreseeable future it's a core part of our business.
Our next question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just -- the initial question is on the 55 wells that you've done resting period on.
If you can just give us a sense of what the IP was on those 55 wells and if you have a 30-day rate on any of those if you can provide that as well.
And the follow-up question is on the Brown Dense on the verticals and I know you've only been doing 3 or maximum 4 stages and I'm just curious that given the thickness what you think the potential is for number of stages on a vertical? I'll let Bill talk about Brown Dense and frac stages but as far as the resting and what it was beforehand and what it is in the future and what the 30-day rates I don't have any of that number sitting in front of me.
I can tell you that in general the wells we drilled in the areas we're drilling now were 2 million-type numbers and we're probably in the high 2s low 3s on the numbers that we have.
So we've added 30% to 40% to the IP rates but I don't have any other details.
And on the Brown Dense verticals when we planned these series of vertical wells we were looking at numbers of stages being somewhere between 3 and 5.
And as we complete these wells we began this process with the Sharp well completing each particular stage separately so that we could run some logs and try to determine whether we're getting frac height or not which would dictate how many stages we needed.
So we planned for 4 and evidence in the completion told us that we were getting greater frac height than we'd originally planned for so we backed it off to 3.
And we're using that sort of 3 to 4 frac stages as the planning and adjusting on the fly as we work through these.
And then let me remind everyone we're not even close to understanding how many frac stages we need or whether it's horizontal or vertical.
So our best guess today may not be our best guess 6 months from now or 3 months from now or whatever that is.
Our next question comes from the line of Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So going -- following up on that Brown Dense question.
The number of stages that you're completing those -- the vertical thing is that a function of simply the thickness of the formation or are you trying to access maybe different zones within the Brown Dense formation? It's both.
It's both.
The eighth well that's the good well we for the first time frac-ed the very bottom part of the Brown Dense.
And we announced that when we talked about that last quarter where we're getting I think a peak rate of about 170 barrels a day out of that.
And so in that case that fracs were set just for that zone and then some of the fracs are just to get us across the whole interval as well and that goes back to Bill's comments about -- each one we flow back separately we do a lot of diagnostics on it.
That's why it was a $10 million well not a $6 million or $7 million well.
So we're still learning those things but we're doing both.
Research Division</strong> Okay so when you're then drilling horizontally is it -- do you know if you're able to access all those different zones with 1 lateral? Or is that the issue that you're having with the horizontal wells? Well certainly any of the horizontals we've done in the past we have not been able to frac across the entire interval and so as we go into the future that will be one of the things we'll have to figure out.
But I don't know -- don't have an answer there whether we can or can't yet.
Part of what we're trying to learn about the verticals is how to do it optimally so when you do try it horizontally you get a shot at it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And my follow-up is the upper Fayetteville wells that you drilled the 30-plus.
Are those in areas where you have existing wells in the lower Fayetteville or [indiscernible] areas? Yes.
We've drilled at lower Fayetteville throughout the entire area.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And so you've -- comfortable at this point that in over that 120 000 or so acres you're talking about 2 separate reservoirs? Yes.
There is an upper and lower almost across the entire field not quite the entire field.
Some of it doesn't have much of a barrier.
And we know we're getting upper and lower with what we're doing.
And it's 120 000 we're very comfortable that we're getting almost no contribution from [indiscernible].
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Christensen with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Steve on the Paradox Basin the first well what depth were you taking that to? Because I saw a second permit so my curiosity is up in the Paradox.
Can you tell us a little bit about it? Well we're going to the Cane Creek.
I think that was just under 10 000 feet is where we landed our lateral I believe it was 9 800 -- 9 600 feet 9 800 feet.
And I'll tell you on this -- that well we're still doing the completion stages of it but the first couple of stages that we've done in the completion have not given us the results we were hoping for.
And that doesn't give us any discouragement.
This play is going to take some while to figure out if it's going to work or not.
But we're certainly permitting some other wells but there's several industry players around us that are drilling and permitting wells also.
So that's one of the reasons Bill didn't say much about it and I won't say much more about it.
But there are other zones other than the Cane Creek that are shallower and some of the permits you may see that are shallower than some of the other people out there.
And we'll be testing some of those zones in this well.
So that's why he said stay tuned wait a quarter or so and we'll talk in a lot more detail.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up comes back to the lower smack.
When do you think you might drill the next horizontal well? And the follow-up on that is can you go back to 2 or 3 of your horizontals and re-frac them and maybe learn by that? Our seventh well is a horizontal.
It has 1 or 2 stages in it right now.
But it's ready as we learn from verticals to go do some experimentation on.
And really that could happen anytime once we get to a point where we want to try that.
As far as drilling another horizontal not in our immediate plans right now.
As I said what we're trying to do now is do what we call corner posts.
What's going on towards the edge and work back towards the middle with some of the vertical wells that we're doing.
And then as far as reentering a well we're looking at that probably not -- maybe on one of them you could do something.
But once you've frac-ed it there's a -- trying to get science from it frac-ing and then trying to learn from what you just did is very very difficult.
There's some mechanical issues all the time going back in a well.
So we've got 1 well we can do some experiments on and we will do those.
And then future horizontal wells are down the road.
Our next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> I was -- I'm just wondering Steve if you could expand a little bit on your response on the differential issue because it seems as though you did much better than any of your competitors relative to NYMEX this quarter and I was wondering if you could be a little bit more specific about how you had the options to take gas to different pricing points I guess from the Marcellus.
We've set up our system to -- really I need to start with the 2 big lines that we can take gas to is Tennessee Gas Pipeline and Millenium line.
That's where -- that kind of brackets most of our acreage.
So I'll just start right off the bat and say if both of those have severe problems at some point in time then we're going to have some problems.
I can't tell you we're never going to have a problem but we have enough flexibility that we can bounce between Millennium and Tennessee Gas fairly easily and that's because of our north-south ties between that Stagecoach line and that DTE line that's one of the reasons we've waited so long to start developing is we needed to have a redundant and dynamic system before we'd want to get out there and do it.
And basically those lines I think it's 5 or 6 different places you can sell on those lines by themselves.
But the Constitutional line will come in 2015 it didn't help us this quarter but that goes north it jumps over those lines and gets us to another point.
We can take gas today to the midcontinent markets and we take some of our gas to the southern markets.
And I won't go into a lot of details about that but it's the same strategy we had in the Fayetteville Shale where in the Fayetteville shale we can do anything west of Mississippi -- I mean east of Mississippi and get gas to it.
Our ultimate goal in the Marcellus is to be able to do the exact same thing and the thought process isn't about this year or next year.
We're going to be there for 20 or 30 years.
I can't tell you even 5 years from now exactly where you need gas I know you'll need it and I know the major population areas in the Marcellus.
So I know it will always be priced better than the rest of the country.
That doesn't mean that you're not going to have some bumps along the way.
And so our purchasing is thinking down the road and trying to be prepared for anything that might come up down the road and it's worked well for us this quarter as we go through it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one more quick one.
Are you willing to talk about the breakdown of spending on New Ventures the $133 million between drilling and acreage 3D I guess? This year I think it's just under $50 million.
It's the land part of that.
There's probably less than $10 million at science in it.
And that number could change a little bit depending on what happens in New Brunswick but it's basically in the $10 million range and the rest of that's drilling for 2013.
Due to time constraints our final question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Is there an asset in the New Ventures portfolio that could rival the Brown Dense in resource potential and maybe value creation whether it's the -- that's down in the Paradox Basin or elsewhere? That's one of those trick questions Dan.
We've got some acreage we haven't talked about.
We would hope that we have acreage that would rival the Brown Dense in our portfolio.
And certainly whenever we go into any of these plays we think about them as potentially being significant.
Now after you learn from them and I'll use the Bakken in Montana where I talked earlier about the fact that we were there and decided that it just didn't quite make it to where we needed.
There may be something in the Bakken in Montana but doesn't have the scale after we did our first couple of tests there.
And so it could happen that whether it's Colorado or Paradox or something we haven't talked about doesn't -- after you drill a couple of wells it starts getting smaller and it gets too small for what you're doing.
But today the Colorado and Paradox both in our minds have the potential to be significant to our company.
Certainly the Brown Dense is 500 000 acres Colorado is 300 000 acres and we haven't talked about Paradox but there's a little bit of scale and acreage.
But we still think they're significant and can be significant to the company.
Understand.
Then quickly as a follow-up.
On the Brown Dense to confirm in your view the play doesn't necessarily need to work on a horizontal basis for it to be declared a repeatable commercial success correct? Not at all.
As a matter of fact the 3 best wells drilled to date are vertical wells.
Mr.
Mueller I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you.
Over the years we have attended several investment conferences and I was asked recently by one of the new people to our story "What makes you excited about Southwestern Energy?" and for any CEO that's a question we love to get and we're always excited to get it.
And I just wanted to end this with what makes me excited about Southwestern Energy.
First and foremost it's our formula.
The Right People doing the Right Things wisely investing the cash flow from the underlying assets creating Value+.
And I think this quarter shows the Value+.
The reason I started with the formula it defines our culture and that's the culture that Bill talked about before about relentless curiosity that leads to innovation that leads to records that we saw in this quarter.
The other thing about that formula is it drives our values and you can't be successful without having the right kind of values.
And so that's the number one thing I'm excited about.
I'm certainly excited about the Marcellus.
We talked a lot about it today the well results the Northeast corner.
We talked about our growing production.
And we talked about the fact that what we've seen to date I think our acreage matches with almost anyone else's acreage out there on a productivity per foot or on a productivity for lateral length or frac stage or however you want to do that.
I'm also excited and we talked about it in one of the last questions about the firm capacity we have.
It took us a little longer to get started because we thought it was very important to have that firm capacity in place we're continuing to add that firm capacity.
We saw the benefits of it in the third quarter.
I think we'll see some benefits of it in the near term and I know we'll see some benefits of it in the long term as we go through.
And then I'm really excited and starting the fourth quarter and you'll see as we start talking about 2014 you're going to see us move into some of the other counties on the new acquisition that we had and you'll start seeing tests in Wyoming Sullivan Tioga Counties and we'll talk about that starting early next year.
And then on the Fayetteville Shale I'm excited.
The fact that we keep learning to unlock more of the resource potential.
We keep -- that learning has allowed us to understand more about the Fayetteville Shale.
I'm excited about that.
And then I'm excited in exploration efforts.
And the first thing that exploration effort obviously comes up is Brown Dense.
I'll just remind everyone Brown Dense is only part of our 1.3 million acres remember we had in that last question.
Now there are some good things I think that could come out of that acreage as well.
And we'll continue to have that 1 million plus acres as we look out in the future that we'll have as upside to what we're doing.
And I'm excited obviously about our performance and the records we set and I'm very especially excited about the fact that a lot of our peers are giving up on natural gas.
And most importantly for us we haven't given up on natural gas.
We are actually and very easily able to deliver more value per dollar invested and that's what makes Value+ Value+.
And then finally I'm excited about the future.
I think we have a transparent growth path in some great project areas and the one key thing I want to leave you with is that we've got one of the few teams in the entire industry who understands what it takes to drill more than 3 000 wells produce 3 Tcf of gas in 9 years out of a single field.
And I think that's going to do a lot for us in the future.
I think what we're learning as I said in some of the calls will help us set up some of the things we're thinking about in the future.
And I think that gives us an advantage.
So with that I'll thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to a great fourth quarter and I wish you the best weekend possible.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy fourth quarter 2013 earnings teleconference call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to Mr.
Steven Mueller the CEO of Southwestern Energy.
Thank you Mr.
Mueller.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If you have not received a copy of yesterday's press release regarding our fourth quarter and yearend 2013 results you can find a copy on our website at swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the risk factors in the forward-looking statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's start.
2013 was record setting year for Southwestern Energy.
Providing value plus for our shareholders was never more apparent.
Not only did we achieve new levels of net income EBITDA cash flow production reserves we did that while keeping our costs low.
Fayetteville records were set through improvements to our completion techniques and we continued expansion in new areas in the Marcellus while moving new concepts and new ideas forward.
I am very proud of the efforts of our employees in 2013 and I am certain you will see even more value delivered in 2014.
Bill and Craig will speak about these records and new ideas in a few minutes.
I'd like to address a few general items.
Let's start with Brown Dense.
As you remember last quarter we discussed our first commercial well in the Brown Dense and we also discussed the many things that need to happen for us to accelerate our investments in this project.
Since then we drilled five wells.
Three of these were drilled to test the geologic and volatile liquids limits of our acreage in an effort to determine other response potential lease explorations and renewals over the next few years.
It's becoming clear that the best production will be in the high pressure cell first encountered in our third well and extending at least 12 miles past our commercial well the Sharp 22-22-1.
We are currently testing the first offset to Sharp well and find a pressure to stimulate another offset in March so we will better be able to discuss the details and what it means to this play during our teleconference in April.
The second general issue I'd like to discuss is the concerns about gas price in Northeast Pennsylvania.
Southwestern Energy strategy in both the Fayetteville Shale and the Marcellus Shale has been purchase from capacity in an effort to contact several liquid sales points and reduced the price volatility and hopefully reduce the sometimes large gas price basis issues.
As you'll see in the earnings release and the discussion with Bill and Craig our front capacity along with marketing opportunities has serviced well both in the fourth quarter of 2013 and first two months of 2014.
From our perspective these are the side benefits of a much broader and longer-term strategy.
We have known for several years there will be short-term volatility and price as the transportation was maturing in the northeast and we are also know there is a high probability we'll be drilling for 10 years from now on our acreage.
So what we can only guess is where the gas will be needed 10 years from now or maybe even 20 years from now.
We continue to believe the right strategy maximize price throughout the life of our projects as it creates many outlets to as many markets as they're economically feasible.
We have accomplished that in the Fayetteville Shale and need only a few more pieces to fill out the Marcellus.
Gas markets outside the Marcellus have also been making headlines recently.
And before I turn the call over to Bill and Craig I'd like to review a few thoughts on the overall natural gas markets.
While we enjoyed the higher prices created by a cold winter I feel the same way now as I did in the winter of 2012.
We just come through what was reported to be the warmest winter in the northeastern U.S.
in over 80 years.
The outcome was low dry down in the storage and earlier than normal injections which resulted in gas prices breaking below $2 in April of that year.
My point one season of cold or one season of warm weather does not break the gas prices that Southwestern Energy uses to make our decision and it does not drive our company for the great year 2014 is shaping up to be.
Certainly the future looks brighter than the past few years.
The industry will need to increase supply by approximately 4 Bcf today over 2013 just to refill the storage to acceptable levels and we were already seeing the gas supply and demand situation improving before the cold weather hit.
Both of these facts allow me to feel comfortable as NYMEX price has a good chance to average above $4 for the next several years but I still believe a significant amount of new drilling can and will be done as price approach is $5.
So while we are and will be enjoying the additional cash flow from the prices we've seen so far in 2014 we build our company to drive in a much lower price environment.
If you see that in our 2013 markets established the year with a NYMEX price average $3.67.
With that I will now turn the conference over to Bill for an update on our 2013 results.
Thank you Steve.
Good morning everyone.
To further elaborate on Steve's comments 2013 was an exceptional year for Southwestern Energy and I am extremely proud of the innovation hard work and commitment that all of our teams demonstrated throughout the year.
I'd like to share with you a list of milestones that we were able to achieve during the year all of which are truly extraordinary including several new company records.
In 2013 we set a new record for production of 657 billion cubic feet equivalent which is up 16% compared to last year.
With our increased production in the fourth quarter Southwestern Energy became the fourth largest producer of natural gas in the lower 48 United States.
And just last week we achieved a new milestone of 2 billion cubic feet equivalent of net production per day by the company.
We set a new record for prove reserves of approximately 7 trillion cubic feet equivalent which is up 74% compared to last year.
We achieved the lowest finding cost in our company's history at $0.56 per Mcf equivalent and the third highest reserve replacement in the company's history as well.
In the Marcellus Shale our production from the area nearly tripled while our reserves were more than doubled compared to last year.
This translates to gross operated production having reached 700 million cubic feet of gas per day at the yearend.
I would note here that we have eclipsed 750 million cubic feet of gas per day earlier this month.
In the Fayetteville Shale we reached a milestone of 3 trillion cubic feet of cumulative production from our operated wells since the inception of the play and our reserves in the area were also up 60% compared to last year.
And for the year we achieved both the highest initial production rate from well and the lowest average cost to complete that well in our history.
In exploration we continue to acquire new acreage and tested several existing and new plays and have many more ideas to explore on the horizon.
And finally our Midstream Services segment posted the highest EBITDA in its history and made very good progress on adding additional firm transportation out of the Marcellus to facilitate our continued growth of our production and our expanded acreage footprint.
These accomplishments along with many other small victories that are too numerous to count give me a great amount of pride in our teams.
In the Marcellus Shale we placed a total of 100 wells on production during the year resulting in production from the area of 151 billion cubic feet in 2013 up 181% from 54 billion cubic feet in 2012.
Gross operated production in the Marcellus was approximately 700 million cubic feet per day at the end of 2013 compared to approximately 300 million cubic feet per day at the end of 2012.
Total proved net reserves in the Marcellus Shale grew 141% to approximately 2 trillion cubic feet in 2013 compared to 816 billion cubic feet in 2012.
To comment briefly on our reserves in the Marcellus we're very encouraged by the potential size of the resource we've captured in our Pennsylvania acreage.
We've been drilling in Bradford County for over three years now.
Our Blaine-Hoyd well in southern Bradford County which we brought on last year had a peak 24-hour rate of 20 million cubic feet per day of gas was unbounded and was the first well in the section and is currently booked at 22.6 Bcf.
Based on production history we feel confident of the resource we have in place in Bradford County.
And we believe that average EURs in that area should be in the 12 billion cubic feet to 16 billion cubic feet per well range for a typical 5 000 foot lateral with a 1 000 foot well spacing.
Today we currently have booked gross proven reserves averaging 8.7 billion cubic feet per PDP wells and 7.2 billion cubic feet per well for PUD wells.
In our range area in Susquehanna County we've been producing our core area for a little over a year now.
Notable well results include our Seamen's well located in northern Susquehanna County which was placed on production in November of 2013 and reached a 24-hour IP rate of 32 million cubic feet of gas per day.
While we still need some time to understand all of our acreage in Susquehanna County we are very encouraged with what we have de-risked today which is about 40 000 acres.
We believe that EURs in this area should be similar to our Bradford County wells on average in other words in the 10 billion cubic feet to 16 billion cubic feet per day range for a typical 5 000 foot lateral with a 1 000 well spacing.
We have PDP wells in the Susquehanna County area on our books at around 7 billion cubic feet per well.
With additional production history it's likely that you will see our provisions in this area in the future as well.
All comments on resources and reserves apply to our lower Marcellus horizontal wells only.
In 2014 we will begin testing the upper Marcellus in our Bradford County area.
On the new acreage we added into our Marcellus position in 2013 we've drilled two vertical science wells one in Sullivan County and one in Wyoming County.
We will drill a few more vertical science wells in both counties to further test the area but we are encouraged with what we've seen so far today.
On the gathering side in Pennsylvania our Midstream Company was gathering 366 million cubic feet of gas per day from 90 miles of gathering lines across our Marcellus acreage at yearend.
Since inception we've invested nearly $200 million in our gathering systems in Pennsylvania and in 2013 we generated about $30 million of cash flow.
We added 16 560 horsepower of compression in Marcellus in 2013 and look to add a similar amount in 2014 with new compression plant to be added in both Bradford and Susquehanna County areas.
We'll continue to add compression throughout 2014 commensurate with our planned production growth.
Over the past six months there has been a lot of discussion in the marketplace about expected production growth from northeast corner of Pennsylvania and the impact that this had on current firm transportation capacity and fuel prices in the area.
Our gas marketing team has done an outstanding job of contracting additional firm transportation arrangements which gives us access to better price points in the area.
In total we added over 300 million cubic feet of gas per day of firm transportation agreements out of the Basin in 2013 enabling us to reach and sustain 1 billion cubic feet per day of contracted transportation by the end of the year.
Our long-term average transportation demand rate is approximately $0.37 per Mcf.
And we protected approximately 58% of our Marcellus gas production in 2014 with financial and physical sales arrangements at approximately $0.13 per Mcf lower than NYMEX exclusive of transportation cost.
Our strategy of leading with firm transportation has paid off and continues to allow us to ramp our production from the areas significantly over the next few years.
We expect to have another year of very strong results in the Marcellus in 2014.
Our gross operated production is expected to increase to over 900 million cubic feet a day by the end of 2014 and we'll continue to work toward finding additional marketing opportunities for our gas as the year progresses.
In the Fayetteville Shale we placed 414 operated horizontal wells on production in 2013 resulting in production of 486 billion cubic feet in 2013.
Importantly we achieved this production last year with almost 80 fewer wells as compared to previous year when we placed 493 wells on production which is a true testimony to our growing capital efficiency in that business.
Total proved reserves grew by 60% to 4.8 trillion cubic feet compared to 3 trillion cubic feet in 2012.
In 2013 our relentless focus on delivering more showed very encouraging results as we began to make several changes to our completion and flowback procedures in certain parts of the play which had meaningful impact to early production histories in several of our wells.
By experimenting with completions and flowback configurations resting the wells for a short period of time before we place them on production and further optimizing surface facilities we have a seen a significant increase in initial gas production rates with lower volumes of produced/flowback water.
Initial production rates in the third and fourth quarters were the highest in our company's history with our fourth quarter IP rate setting a new record of 4.9 million cubic feet per day along with record 30 day and 60 day rates of 2.86 million cubic feet per day and 2.58 million cubic feet per day respectively for wells that were placed on production in the quarter.
Nine of our top 10 highest wells in the history of the Fayetteville Shale were drilled and placed on production during the third and fourth quarters of 2013.
We are currently examining additional opportunities across the play to perform these modified completion techniques this year.
We continue to work to drive cost lower as well and in 2013 we set a new record for the lowest average completed well cost in our history of $2.4 million per well.
Our vertical integration in the Fayetteville which includes drillings rigs our company-owned sand plant our two SWN-owned frac crews and other field services provide an average savings of approximately $390 000 per well.
Our vertical integration is a key component of our industry-leading efficiency.
On the Midstream side our gas gathering business in the Fayetteville Shale continue to perform well on December 31 was gathering approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day from 1 947 miles of gathering line.
Our cumulative total investment in our gathering systems in Fayetteville is nearly $1.1 billion today it is paid out and in 2013 generated $310 million of cash flow.
Moving on to our exploration group.
At December 31 we held 4 million net acres representing several potential new projects for us of which 2.5 million acres were located in New Brunswick Canada and 460 000 net acres are in our Brown Dense project.
Steve has already commented on the Brown Dense project so I won't to go into that at this point.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin play in eastern Colorado we've leased approximately 302 000 net acres and tested two wells in the Marmaton and Atoka formations in the area.
We plan to drill an additional vertical well in the area during the second quarter of 2014.
We'll begin drilling on two to three additional exploration ideas in 2014 and will keep you posted of our progress when the timing is appropriate.
In closing I again want to thank all of our teams for a terrific job well done.
While we are extremely proud of our accomplishments in 2013 we believe that 2014 will be even better.
We're very excited about the opportunities that lie ahead and sharing those with you.
I'll now turn the call over to Craig Owen who will discuss our financial results.
Thank you Bill and good morning everyone.
Our results in 2013 were excellent and driven by higher production volumes and higher realized gas prices over 2012 and our continued focus on lowering cost.
Excluding certain non-cash items we reported record net income in 2013 of approximately $704 million or $2 per diluted share compared to $487 million or $1.39 per diluted share in 2012.
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was a company record at $2 billion up 24% compared to 2012.
In the fourth quarter our net cash provided by operating activities of $538 million exceeded our capital investments by $59 million.
Operating income for our exploration and production segment was $879 million compared to $543 million excluding the non-cash ceiling test impairments in 2012.
For the year we realized an average gas price including hedges of $3.65 per Mcf which was up from $3.44 per Mcf in 2012.
In the Marcellus we estimate that our January and February 2014 realized gas price excluding hedges is about $0.45 to $0.50 above NYMEX.
We currently have 456 Bcf or approximately 61% of our 2014 projected natural gas production hedged through fixed price swaps at a weighted average price of $4.34 per MMBtu.
We have also recently added 120 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2015 at an average price of $4.40 per MMBtu.
Our hedged position combined with the cash flow generated from our Midstream gathering business provides protection on approximately 70% of our total expected cash flow for 2014.
Our detailed hedge position is included in our Form 10-K filed yesterday and we continue to monitor the gas markets and we'll be looking for opportunities to add to our hedge position in 2015 and beyond.
We are proud that we were able to keep our cash costs very low in 2013 and our cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in our industry.
With all-in cash operating costs of approximately $1.25 per Mcfe in 2013 compared to $1.20 per Mcfe in 2012.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net interest expense and taxes.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.86 per Mcfe in 2013 up from $0.80 per Mcfe in 2012 primarily due to the increased gathering and compression cost associated with the Marcellus Shale partially offset by decreased saltwater disposal costs associated with Fayetteville Shale.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.24 per Mcfe for the year down from $0.26 per Mcfe in 2012 and were lower due to decreased personnel cost per unit of production.
Taxes other than income taxes were flat at $0.10 per Mcfe in 2013 and 2012.
Full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment decreased to $1.08 per Mcfe compared to $1.31 last year.
Operating income from our Midstream Services segment rose 11% to $325 million in 2013 and EBITDA for the segment was $376 million also up 11% and as Bill mentioned is a company record.
These increases were primarily due to the increase in gathering and marketing volumes for our Marcellus and Fayetteville assets.
We invested approximately $2.2 billion in 2013 and currently plan to invest approximately $2.3 billion in 2014.
At December 31 2013 our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio was 35% flat from 2012.
Additionally our total debt-to-trailing EBITDA ratio was about 1x.
Our liquidity continues to be in excellent shape as we had $283 million drawn on our $2 billion revolving credit facility at yearend 2013 and we also had $23 million of cash on our books.
We currently expect our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio at the end of 2014 to range from 31% to 33%.
Looking ahead to 2014 we are excited as more records are within site due to the combination of increased production our low cost structure and what is shaping out to be another year of higher realized gas prices.
That concludes my comments.
So now we'll turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
If I could ask two questions on the Marcellus.
The first on the table you guys included in your press release on the 30-day rates by quarter you had a really nice uptick in the fourth quarter with that average rate of 10.
And I understand that part of that's going to be the Seamen well but I think even if you take that out it's still a nice uptick.
And I am wondering if you can talk about the cons of that whether it's a shift in your geographic mix or maybe I know the lateral lengths a little bit longer if there is perhaps a different completion design you're using there? Part of it is a geographic mix.
As we shift to drilling more in our Susquehanna County area and beginning to develop that area of the business and you look at lateral length differences in between there and our historically drilled Greenzweig area you begin to see averages shifting around and it's mostly that.
We believe that we've got the same potential EUR estimates in both areas but it's just our earlier days in the range area that are driving that average.
Let me jump in.
You asked about are we doing something different on completions.
We're really not in Greenzweig area Bradford County we think we understand what we need to do there and it's been pretty consistent for last year.
We're obviously still learning in the Susquehanna Northeast corner area and as we learn we may change things but what we're really doing is just for the last six to eights months just transferring the knowledge we learned in Bradford over to Susquehanna.
As we drilled out more you may see some changes.
And then I want to go back to a comment part of the Craig Owen's prepared comments.
And I'm not sure I got this right I believe you said that the $0.45 to $0.50 above NYMEX.
Was that for the Marcellus year-to-date or is that an expectation for the first half or maybe the full year? That is Marcellus.
And that's just what we're seeing in January February of '14.
So it's not changing anything for the year but it's what we're seeing early in 2014.
And just a reminder that's a realized pricing on top of NYMEX but it excludes our hedge position.
Our next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Could you comment -- you made good progress on your IP rates in the Fayetteville.
Can you comment on what the impact is to inventory and returns and EUR is that you're thinking at this point? I think there's a number of dimensions in there.
First of all with lower costs and higher values realized price for gas our inventory of drilling locations goes up and we add significantly to that.
The opportunities to really bolster the IPs from these wells and pick up the productivity side of the wells is born out of an effort that we're trying across the Fayetteville Shale to optimize the completions look at facilities look at resting of wells et cetera.
And we've seen some rather remarkable improvements to those IPs which I think adds to the topline of the business.
It doesn't necessarily additional drilling locations but certainly gives us confidence that there is more to get out of Fayetteville than we might have originally even been believed.
And so as we continue to drive cost out and the more vertical integration the more efficient we become you'll get more well locations from that you'll get better increased value as we go across the piece and drive the IPs higher.
I'll note that on extended wells shut-ins or these resting that I talked about earlier there is a IP improvement component to that which again if that works in some of the less strong areas you may get some well locations out of it from an IP perspective.
But it also means that we don't get flowback water.
And you drive out even more cost out of the cost of producing of well.
So turn back can also lead to greater number of locations that remain economic.
When you look at where these wells are there are some that people would call it traditional core part of our field but a lot of this record wells are actually to the south both southwest and into the southeast.
And so going back to inventory I don't know that how many more wells it will add but certainly is an area where historically we had a lot lower well count and a lot lower well EUR so there will be a change I don't the exact answer to what the change will be.
Are any of the performance revisions that you talked about in the year related to these higher IP rates? Or that's not at this point part of the EUR increase? The performance revisions will be a result of wells you had already drilled so those will go back to the PDP base.
And if we had to put on our book that we had at one level and went up a little bit.
But its basically you're just seeing the increase from a PDP basis.
And it's just along that line this is a final follow-up.
Can you comment on the IP rate improvements that you're seeing in early 2014? We've had a couple of wells come on recently that have been above 10 million and 12 million a day and as we continue to refine this and continue to spread the application of both resting wells and certainly this modified flowback techniques across these.
I think you can expect to see IP rates on average continue to decline.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
I just wanted to maybe delve into that question a little bit more on the PUD bookings.
It went up I guess a little bit from where we had then.
But when you look at some of these bigger wells that you're drilling what's it going to take to really see those roll into proved reserves? Is it another year of history or some of these wells are more online or is that going to be just a gradual step up like we've seen from you guys over the last five to six years with the Fayetteville? Are you talking about the Marcellus or the Fayetteville or both? The Fayetteville.
I think what will happen and you said there was a gradual step up if you look year-over-year our actual PUD booking is down a little bit.
2012 was a high-grade year ceiling yielding at 200 wells in your books.
At the end of 2013 we had just under 1 100 wells in our books.
Put that in perspective at the beginning of 2012 before the gas price dropped we had almost 1 568 PUDs in our book.
So certainly as price works above $4 I think these wells will come back on your books.
And then as these techniques can be applied across the field you'll see the EURs in those individual wells raise that average also.
But it won't be a step-jump change it will be as you described a gradual change because these are gradual type of things we're doing.
And so that's probably a two or three-year type timeframe not a single-year timeframe.
Yes I guess that would be the same in the Marcellus a very similar kind of mentality.
Almost same story.
The only difference in Marcellus is we're earlier in the learning.
Today we only have just over a 150 PDP wells to base any kind of decisions about.
And for instance in the northeast corner of Pennsylvania Bill said we had 40 000 acres we are very comfortable with.
But we still have another 50 000-plus acres as we work towards New York to learn about this year.
So it will be a gradual shift up as we get more and more information especially in Susquehanna.
And again we've only had a year on the longest wells there.
Those reserves will creep up.
And we've got a history of that.
If you look at the early days of the Fayetteville Shale it wasn't until two to three years out you had a good base before you saw the reserves actually start stabilizing and getting to a slow increase.
And when you put that in the fact that we're just now starting the Sullivan and just starting Wyoming our averages may bounce around for the next year or so in the Marcellus on each of those areas it will continue to increase.
And as my follow-up on the Brown Dense.
It's been a bit of science project here for a good couple of years and when do you think we're going to have really a sense of whether this is a go-forward part of Southwestern's portfolio or you need to kind of move on? Are we six months away from that or 12 months away from that? Can you kind of give us a sense at a high level what the thought process is here? You just asked one of the questions I get asked every day.
The hope is you'll have the answer tomorrow but each new piece of information gives you some knowledge that sets up and you can go faster or slower.
We are starting to understand better where the best rock is.
And so that's important and that was part of that five well program we talked about.
As we look at at what makes us invest more money and say go we need a couple of wells that are consistent that are economic and consistent.
And I think over the next two quarters we'll drill at least four to five wells around that Sharp area and we'll figure out if we have the consistency.
If we do we'll go faster.
If we don't have the consistency the question is what caused that inconsistency and how can we get around.
Is it mechanical is it something geological how that works.
And until we get there I can't say how that works.
I will say if you think about any of these plays I don't care if you use the Marcellus Fayetteville Eagle Ford.
I don't know many plays that are 13 wells in had three that were paid out.
One that's obviously economic of the one company drilled.
We've got another one that's economic by a third-party.
So I don't know if it's a matter of just when but there is certainly something there that has significant potential to it.
And we'll keep as I said in last conference call we keep chipping away at it because almost no play gives you this much good indications this early.
And we haven't given up on it.
And certainly the three wells I talked about they were the long step outs.
We knew those had higher risk.
Those were exploration wells.
Those were there just to figure out is this acreage going to be worth anything or not.
And in some cases we found that there was immature oil or less mature oil and so that we could write off part of it.
In other cases we're still in the question mark range can we make it work or not but it's not going to be as good as the central parts.
So we moved backed in that central part.
And in the central part since we last spoke we've only drilled one and completed one well out of that inventory.
So we've got another one pending completion and then we've got as Steve said the additional wells that that really focus us in on this core area to come.
So what I think I'm hearing then is you've got enough information where the reservoir is teasing you to keep going forward.
And then what I am hearing then I guess is that maybe in the next six to 12 months we're going to really focus in on the part of the Brown Dense you think will really work is that a fair context? That is an excellent summary.
And I'll just add one other thing to it.
Looking for consistency if for instance the next four wells were all for -- it shuts down if the next four wells are all good we're going full speed ahead second half of the year.
So there is potentially end members -- the exploration curse always is what happens if there's too good too bad and we'll just see what happens if we get into that range.
Our next question comes from the line of Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
I was hoping on the Brown Dense if you could provide some more color on those newest wells.
Maybe if you could talk about how long they've been on production and maybe compare how the performance of that Milstead well compares to the Sharp well at the same point in time of its production life? The Milstead wells have been on production a little over a month.
It takes various wells almost 20 days before you start seeing any oil or any kind of gas.
It took roughly 20 days to see that.
Then you start getting the oil and gas independent of wells you've looked at you can have a fairly rapid increase in the production to some maximum rate or a little bit slower.
This one is on a little bit slower side than the Sharp well was but it's still increasing its rate today though it's less than 100 barrels a day.
And Steve at what point in time or how long does it takes for the Sharp well to reach peak production? Peak production sure well I don't have it right on top of my head but I want to say it was within 15 days after we started getting oil.
And then is there any reason you think the middle of the zone is producing more versus the upper part or maybe you have that mixed up? The upper part certainly in the newest well is where we're getting most of our production.
We are doing several tests trying to figure out.
Well we have fracked the entire interval trying to figure out why that's the case if it's really mechanically open and all kinds of things that you normally hear excuses from various groups but we're just early stages and so I don't have an answer yet I'll certainly have an answer in three months.
And then back to the Marcellus.
It sounds like they're conservative in your view.
Do you think what you've booked for 2013 fully reflects your new completion designs and longer lateral or is there additional upside there? It doesn't fully reflect it because as you know under SEC rules you have to be 90% certain.
And part of that certainty is you have to have a certain lengths of time on wells on their productions size of the equation.
And you have to have enough wells in the area you're at so book a significant number of wells.
We're not even barely booking on a one-to-one ratio because we are spread out and we're growing that.
And especially in Susquehanna those better longer wells have only been on production less than six months.
So we feel from a production that they're going to get better they're going to upward revisions but you just don't physically have the data being 90% certain so you can call an SEC reserve.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Just want to follow-up on the Brown Dense.
Can you clarify if the wells four and five and the ones that you had mentioned in the release are those the step outs from the Sharp or those going to drilled the step outs going to be drilled shortly like in the near future? The fourth and fifth well since the third quarter fourth is drilled that's the Milstead that's the one we were talking about.
The fifth well is drilled but not fracked yet.
It will be fracked in March.
And then we will drill 23 some three to four additional wells on top of that.
So we'll have in the next quarter-and-a-half two quarters six plus wells around that Sharp well.
Agee</strong> And then I've noticed that your net acreage position has been dropping off.
It looks like there has been some lease expirees.
Do you have any comfort in any kind of core area right now around the Sharp that you think -- I know you're still doing tests but how much of that do you feel like could -- do you have any kind of conviction on right now? I'll kind of answer two pieces to that question.
Around the Sharp well if you go from the Sharp well north and east about three miles.
There is another commercial well drilled by a third-party.
If you go south and west to our numbers three well are BML well on a kind of a north east south west trend that's the 12-plus miles I was talking about where we have seen high pressure in wells.
And then we've also seen production that would at least payout the wells.
Even though we had a lot of science or had issues with those wells to payout the total cost of those wells.
So there is certainly an area in there that's 12 miles long.
We've done a lot of seismic and other work and they could be anywhere from 90 000 to 150 000 plus acres and that's some of the things we have to learn about in some of these other wells we do around the Sharp this year.
So there is a core area there it could be bigger.
And second half of the year is to help design how much bigger that's supposed to be.
And then you've talked about dropping the acreage.
What we found is for the most part on the Arkansas side the gravity of the oil is too low a gravity with the pressures we have there to get or we think going to be ultimately sustainable rates.
So some of the multi acreage you saw or I think all that acreage you saw drop was on the Arkansas side.
And you will some more acreage drop there this year.
The well we drilled right after the Sharp well that is off to be far west was to test the acreage right near a major faults trend called the state line trend.
That well actually saw some water with completely different chlorides than anything we've seen before.
And we think we're getting some influence out of that fault trend.
We may go over there and do some things again trying to figure out how that fault trend is affecting the acreage in that area but we think that's a boundary.
We think that's a boundary on that side.
So we've learned a lot about acreage and to the extent that we have acreage either to the far southwest or to the north in Arkansas a lot of that will be dropped over the next few years.
Our next question comes from the line of Amir Arif from Stifel.
Just a follow-up to the last question.
In terms of the size of the circle to draw around the Sharp well that the Milstead well that was only 1 mile north of the first Sharp well.
So just wanted to clarify a comment you made earlier Steve that it sounds like you did also complete the lower Brown Dense it's just that the middle Brown Dense is only producing is that right? The entire well is fracked.
We're getting most of the production out of the upper part of that interval which is the first well.
Usually when we frac a well we'll frac in the middle part of the well.
The Sharp was the first well we had ever fracked at very bottom part.
If you remember we had 170 barrels a day from it.
This latest well fracked the entire interval.
It's a first time that the middle and lower didn't contribute.
So we're scratching that didn't contributed much so we're scratching our heads on that portion.
And that's why I said there may be some mechanical issues.
Right now if I was an investor and certainly this is a company where we are at I wouldn't try to hang any kind of hat on what's going on the Milstead until we get more production and get more history.
It's so early a lot of things could happen over the next 30 to 90 days.
So like I said just be very careful trying to just make an assumptions or judgment off of that.
And the second question the $190 million in New Ventures that doesn't include the Brown Dense spending.
In the DJ you've already drilled a two well so I am just curious is the remaining of that $190 million for new acreages or are you testing any third play in 2014 that you might have some results to disclose on in '14? There is about $120 million in for acreage and all of the others is either a little bit of seismic but mainly drilling.
And there are some other plays you'll see rolled out this year that we'll drill on.
So that will come out in '14 in terms you'll fund some new plays? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Just a follow-up on the reserve bookings practices in the Marcellus just a little bit more clarity there.
I think your PUD EUR fell year-on-year in Bradford Count and Lycoming County but you've highlighted in your comments you always expect ultimate EURs in Bradford and Susquehanna County to be in the 10 Bcf to 16 Bcf range.
Can you just take us through what gets us from last year to this year? And then what specifically within the life of well performance is going to get us to a higher number? And I guess that's a part of that is there any discrepancy in terms of how you're thinking about things relative to your reserve engineers? It's easy to say we don't have any discrepancy between us and our reserve engineers.
I don't know if anyone knows but reserve engineers do look at 80% of our total reserves -- at minimal of 80% of our total reserves and do independent work on it.
They don't just audit.
They actually do the reserves and then we compare back this year it was less than 5% variance in reserves.
And they did both the Fayetteville Shale and the Marcellus so they actually did like 95% of our total reserves.
So there weren't any discrepancies at all in either of those areas.
Now what makes us think that something is going to get better or how do we get there.
Remember when we're giving whether its PUD averages whether it's PDP averages it is what we think we're going to drill at that time.
So if the PDPs which they do has a lot of wells in them that are less than 4 000 foot laterals a lot of early wells there going that average is going to be affected by that.
If the PUDs in a certain area as we go north towards New York this year in the Susquehanna Northeast corner our laterals in that area will actually be a bit shorter laterals.
If you put a PUD on the book that says you go on the northern end of the acreage and it's a 3 500 foot PUD a lot of that just becomes a mix.
And so again I wouldn't worry about whether it's 7.5 Bcf or 8 Bcf on an average per well you need to get a more granular on that.
And I don't know that the investment community gets so easy down well-by-well in that granularity we do that everyday in what we're doing.
When we look at internally whether it's IP or EUR or whether it's frac stage or per lateral length that is increasing in general in all of these areas that we're drilling.
And so that's what gives us a confidence that in the Bradford area where we've got a lot of wells on it that we know what they're all what's it going to be.
And that in the Marcellus as it compares that to Bradford as it compares from the southern side of they play we have a year of production to the northern part of Susquehanna where we only had a few months of productions that those wells are going to be better in the future.
But again from an SEC standpoint you can't extrapolate that trend or you can't use that trend.
What you can use is the data you have and the current well you drill and the PUD that you put next to it has to be based on the date in that current well not on what you hope that well is going to do.
So I guess on the point with regards to moving say into a little bit more towards the New York border is the way to think about is that you're going to disproportionately have some of the shorter lateral wells that likely will have lower EURs in 2014? And then as you go forward beyond that you would expect it to go more into development mode in the higher EUR longer lateral deeper areas.
So that's part of the reason it's just the geographic trajectory over time.
It's not just the laterals.
As you go shallower towards New York you are getting shallower and your pressures are a little bit less so you are just a little bit less pressure but yes.
This year as we move north we're still just holding acreage and proving up acreage for the most part of 2014 and that certainly will affect this year's PUD.
That's why I said earlier I think they're all going to creep up.
But it's still two to three years out before you stabilize and get to the kind of numbers that I was talking about.
And your reserve engineers are on board with the 10% to 16% that you talked about as the ultimate averages for these areas? Our reserve engineer is due reserves for a lot of companies in the Northeast corner.
So yes they understand that upside and they also understand very clearly SEC rules.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
I was wondering if you could update us on some of your activity in the upper Fayetteville? And if you made any reserves bookings related to there? I'll let Bill answer that.
We did some testing last year and we have 19 actual wells planned this year to test in the upper Fayetteville.
We think it's about 120 000 acres of area that this covers.
I don't have any reserve booking information but we have continued to make some good progress on upper Fayetteville especially in the way we're drilling the wells and the amount of time that we are really hitting the landing zone and staying in zone which is really a key to making those work.
We're pretty encouraged by some of the results that we are seeing and we'll continue to test that going forward and then figure out broadly and how we want to attack protect that.
And to remind everyone on the last call and in our end of the year comments when we did our guidance we talked about having some wells in upper Fayetteville that were 5 million a day plus.
Those have only been in production for few months.
So I don't know what we've got in reserves but it's the same kind of thing we just talked about.
They're going to revise up as you get more production in the year.
Before that though we drilled just over 20 wells and the best one in there was a 5 Bcf well.
The average were very similar to the averages that we have in lower Fayetteville they were 2.3 Bcf to 2.4 Bcf and I think the worse well in there is just over 1 Bcf.
So when we talk about the 150 000 acres I think ultimately we'll be very comparable on a reserve standpoint to the lower.
They will be spaced wider because it's a little bit thin on the upper Fayetteville.
So in the lower Fayetteville your spacing maybe 400 feet to 600 feet apart drilling we're at here it will be about 1 000 feet apart in that the upper.
Steve just thinking about the way you produced your Marcellus wells.
I know you don't put them on to compression seven or eight months later and you flow them against higher line pressures.
Does that also impact your initial reserve bookings in terms of your reserve report the way you produce them? It certainly is a factor.
You have to make an estimate of when you're put on the compression and to the extent that you're relying on declined curve and early days of declined curve it makes a factor.
Once we start understanding the bottom hole pressure then when you put that in the equation your reserves it doesn't really matter what that back pressures you can get the reserve calculation.
But in early day of well it is a factor.
And just my last question Steve just thinking about the summer in northeast basis I know you have basis risk hedged for a lot of your volumes.
But given the cold winter inventory levels are low in terms of gas storage.
What are your thoughts on how bad it can get this summer? I'm feeling a little bit better than I did a few months ago but I think the summer is going to be messy.
And when I say messy I've seen a lot of different articles and things that people have done on which point is going to be problemsome.
And I'm not sure we're smart enough to understand which sales point is going to be the worst sales point in any point in time.
But there will be lead times during the summer I think even with the fact that we have to get more in the storage where the sales points are going to have very low numbers.
And to extent that any of us in the industry have to sell to that point.
And I think what we make is decisions about shutting the wells versus selling those points.
For us we've got most of our gas going in the Tennessee gas line or a millennium line.
For the most part if one of the lines or sales points on one of those lines have an issue we can get to the other line and get around it.
If both of those lines have issues we'll have issues in I don't know how to predict if that's going to happen or not.
I can just say that we're preparing for that in that case and we'll do what we need to do at that point in time.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Global Hunter Securities.
I was hoping you could talk about the opportunity and really the key variables at play as it pertains to adding firm transport in the Marcellus going into 2015 given your likelihood of your 1 Bcf capacity there earlier in the year.
And specifically done a great job of locking in your differentials on transport to date $0.37 for this year is testament to that.
Just wondering what the market looks like to lock in some prices going in 2015? Well we have 150 million a day that we'll -- I don't know if we make in 2015 and that looks like 2016 or late 2015 that it's part of Constitution line.
So that will go in and that's not part of what Bill talked about as 2015 Bcf a day numbers that we had planned later in the year and assume that there are going to be some issues on that.
Then as you look at the general directions gas needed to go in the Marcellus a big demand over the next three or four years increase is in that Mid-Atlantic towards southeast part of the U.S.
And many of those pipelines are pointing in that direction and people that are talking about going that way we're talking to them about that.
And one of the issues that is out there that we're debating with is that some of that's pretty expensive transportation and you've seen some numbers up to $1 to move gas and there's a lot of them in the $0.70 to $0.80 range.
We're trying to figure out some other ways around that.
And so I don't have any exact answers for you.
But from our perspective we're willing to buy pipe build pipe figure out a way to get transportation but the end result will be it will be economic transportation.
So I think you'll see us try to work back in the Mid-Atlantic is what we're doing.
And what's interesting about that and I remind people all the time is works back towards Mid-Atlantic the best gas out there certainly becomes a Fayetteville gas gives us a shortest gas to it.
So we should get a little bit of benefit on that side as well.
And a quick one from me on the Brown Dense your recent activities were focused on vertical drilling.
Just wondering behind the scenes you've been really trying to tweak your horizontal approach to the play and if we could see you guys attempt on a horizontal well at some point this year? The horizontal we've got one or two of them in the budgets later in the year and we continue with these various wells to test how to frac and what to do from a frac standpoint.
For the immediate future it's a lot cheaper to figure out what's going on with the vertical so would see as new verticals.
But in some of these cases we're actually doing verticals where the profit is if something works well we come back and do the horizontal.
So I'll just say stay tuned on that part.
Our next question comes from the line of Vedula Murti with CDP Capital.
Can you give us an update as to what the drilling plan is in kind of that leads to your current point of view on the paradox wells I know it's kind of hard in terms of trying to figure out a consistency there? But what's kind of the plan for 2014 to evaluate that area? The early plan for 2014 is watch the industry and see what they're doing.
There is some wells being drilled south of our acreage block.
And then once we understand what the industry is doing we can make decision about what else we would do.
There is three different zones that you can go after and the group to south is going after two shallower zones in the Crane Creek that we went into.
So I think you won't see us doing actually any drilling activity until the second half of year if we do any at all.
Our next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital.
Just quickly on the any incremental thoughts on separating the Midstream business from the E&amp;P business? I think we get asked this question almost every quarter.
But right now we like the Midstream exactly where it's at.
It continues to generate good cash flow for us.
As I just said on the Marcellus we may have to do some other things just to get the gas where we need to get it to.
And having that Midstream inside our company I think it's better than having in some secondary part of the company.
So right now we don't plan to do anything with Midstream except enjoy the fruits of what we're doing and expand it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon with Brean Capital.
I was wondering if I could ask you about Sullivan County and your activity there and what your thoughts are about acreage there? And then one follow-up on the reserve question I guess I am not sure I fully understood the response as to why you seem to have so many wells that are above the 16 Bcf-type curve yet the average well doesn't seem to reflect that? Let me Bill talk about Sullivan here in a second.
I'll try and get back to the type curve.
We do have a lot of wells that are well above 10 Bcf and lot of them above 15 Bcf or 16 Bcf.
Most of those are in Bradford County.
And that's because we've been drilling Bradford County for two-and-a-half years now.
When you get in a Susquehanna you've only had a year on it.
And while there is some very good wells at Susquehanna and we have got some wells booked above '15 you've just got a very short history there.
And so even if we have a 10 million a day well it's only been on production for three months or four months.
We might think it's going to be a 10 Bcf or 15 Bcf and 20 Bcf well.
But today we can't book it at that.
And then if you want to book an offset to that well your offsets are going to be at whatever booked at PDP or less to be 90% share it's usually the less part.
And so that's just drive our average in general.
And I know there is a little bit of variance and bounce around Bradford but trust me that that is a very good area and you're going to see those numbers work up over the next year.
Now I'll let Bill talk about Sullivan.
On Sullivan County we're trying to delineate that acreage along with Wyoming and Tioga in our program this year.
So we've got a 12 wells planned across those three Counties which is about 85 000 acres of the land to look at delineating.
We'll start with vertical wells get the results and these would be test wells with some a lot of science et cetera in them.
And once we see those results kind of come in we'll plan some horizontal test wells to follow that.
And that will be spread throughout really the second and third quarters of this year.
We've already drilled two.
And that's we're evaluating the data on that.
Let me say though that we really like what we saw in that first Sullivan well.
Absolutely.
And the Wyoming well was offsetting some of the better wells in the trend and it look pretty good too.
If it looks competitive with your other acreage than you would have to build out some infrastructure? How long do you think that might take? Our goal for 2014 is to understand what we have in Sullivan in particular.
And hopefully about second half of the year make decisions about build out and then development and actual production would be some time in 2015.
That will be about the fast as you could go.
And Wyoming there is a gathering system there.
So you'll see us later in the year drill some wells that will hook into that gathering system.
But again it's sizing to figure out the current gathering system is big enough or if it needs to be expanded.
And then as we make that decision we can go if it needs to be expanded.
And again second half of 2015 is when you'd actually see the build out of our production there.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Steve Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
I think back on some of the questions we've had today.
And there is certainly some little things here and there that that we can ask questions about.
Part of that I think is because we want to give out as much information as we possibly can so you can understand what we're doing.
And that causes more question some times than it might not if we hadn't given out the data.
But one of the things I want to promise you is that we will continue to give you as much information as we can so you can make the best decisions about investing in our company.
And I think we're a company that ought to be invested in.
The 2014 September of this year will be our 10 anniversary for production from the Fayetteville Shale.
And if you think about it only the very bravest person whatever predicted that after 3 500 wells 3 Tcf of gas production we'd still be driving down cost we'd still be having questions about how many fewer days you can put into it which is to be setting well production records and we'd be improving the return on every dollar we invested.
I'm actually looking forward and already planning some celebrations for that 10 anniversary in September.
But I'm actually lot more excited about what's going to happen in 2014.
The Fayetteville Shale is continuing to improve we discussed that.
And I fully expected the IPs this year are going to be better than last year in that play.
And we'll have days to drill go down and we'll have cost go down.
In the Marcellus we're in the center of the premier dry gas play in North America.
We're going to continue to drive down cost.
We've got lot more acreage to test during the year and as we talked about we're going to see those bookings and all the things that go with that just get better as we go through.
And then I'm confident we'll have more earnings reserves production records what we said in 2014.
And then you start talking about upside.
Upper Fayetteville we talked a little about that with the questions.
We're going to drill 20 wells there this year 15 to 20 wells.
And I fully expect you'll see debt development program continue in the future.
Upper Marcellus we're doing our first test there.
And we're doing it actually in the center part of the Marcellus and Bradford.
Now you'll start seeing us work our way in the Susquehanna in future year and I think you're going to have upside there.
There is a Brown Dense whatever you think about it there is some good wells there and hopefully we can sort that out and make it a viable play for us.
Then we have our other current exploration acreage we picking up.
We talked about picking up more acreage with the dollars we have this year.
And I would expect a few surprises as we go on.
And as I started this conference call it's all about delivering value plus for our shareholders.
We did in 2013 and I'm confident we'll do it in 2014.
And so with that I'd like to hand the call today.
I know a lot of you you've been on near the end of the grind of the earning seasons I hope you can enjoy this weekend and next couples of weekends as you go through.
And that concludes our conference call.
Thank you Mr.
Mueller.
This concludes our teleconference for today.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Have a great day.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chief Executive Officer of Southwestern Energy Company.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning.
Thank you for all of you joining us today.
With me today is Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Executive VP of Exploration and Business Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of yesterdays press release regarding our first quarter results you can find a copy of all of this on our website at www.swn.com.
Also Id like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors in the forward-looking statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now lets begin.
Our first quarter results were the best in the companys history.
Quarterly records were set for production adjusted earnings cash flow and EBITDA.
Our initial production rates in the Fayetteville Shale continue on the record trends established in 2013 and the quality of our newest wells in Marcellus has created exciting growth that will continue for several more years.
Our new Sand Wash play in Colorado closed yesterday and we continue to move our exploration concepts forward in the DJ Basin and are on pace for testing other exploration projects later in the year.
You might ask and many of you have already written comments about our guidance.
Shouldnt higher gas price or 23% growth in production or the closing of $180 million acquisition change the overall guidance for 2014? The answer is maybe but we are not ready to tease you today with any guesses about the rest of the year.
Certainly production is ahead of guidance so as upside to that number for the year but we want to better determine what activity we can really do in the Niobrara acquisition fine tune the capital needs and other parts of the company and also gas price for at least one more quarter before making any new projections.
Speaking of natural gas prices they continue to be at top of the interest for all of our investors.
As we stated over the past we believe gas will trade between $4 and $5 for the foreseeable future with weather spikes that break either side of that trend for intervals up to 12 months.
Within that price range both our Fayetteville our Marcellus economics match with almost any basin in North America.
So I have confidence that SWN will continue to set more records next quarter and throughout the year.
With that I will now turn the conference over to Craig for an update on our first quarter results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
As Steve mentioned we had an excellent quarter driven by higher production volumes and higher realized prices.
Excluding certain non-cash items we reported net income of $231 million or $0.66 per diluted share for the quarter compared to $146 million or $0.42 per diluted share for the first quarter of 13.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was approximately $617 million a record for discretionary cash flow generated in the first quarter and up 45% compared to this time last year.
Additionally our cash flow exceeded our capital investments in the quarter resulting in free cash flow of $75 million.
Operating income for our E&amp;P segment was $352 million two times the $176 million reported in the first quarter 2013 and primarily due to higher production and higher realized gas prices offset slightly by increased operating costs and expenses due to increased compression and gathering costs.
Including hedges we realized an average gas price of $4.19 per Mcf during the first quarter which was from $3.42 per Mcf in the first quarter of 2013.
In the Marcellus excluding hedges we realized an average gas just price of $5.09 per Mcf in the first quarter.
We currently have 349 Bcf or approximate 61% of our remaining 2014 projected natural gas production hedged through fixed price swaps at an average price of $4.35 per MMBtu.
We also have 240 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2015 at an average price of $4.40 per MMBtu.
Our cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in the industry with all-in cash operating cost of approximately $1.36 per Mcfe in the first quarter compared to $1.18 per Mcfe last year.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net interest expense and taxes.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were within our guidance range at $0.93 per Mcfe in the first quarter up from $0.81 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2013 primarily due to increased third party gathering costs in the Marcellus sale due to higher activity in Susquehanna County and higher compressor fuel cost as a result of higher natural gas prices.
Our G&amp;A expenses were also within our guidance range at $0.25 per Mcfe up from $0.21 per Mcfe a year ago and were higher due to decreased personnel cost associated with incentive compensation and driven by improved company performance.
This had the effect of increasing our G&amp;A per Mcfe by $0.07 over the first quarter of 2013.
Taxes other than income taxes were $0.13 per Mcfe up from $0.12 a year ago and our full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment was $1.10 per Mcfe compared to $1.09 last year.
While our cash cost per Mcfe increased over a year ago levels.
The increases were driven by improved company performance higher natural gas prices and growth of our Marcellus operations.
Operating income in our Midstream Services segment rose 8% to $83 million in the first quarter compared to the same quarter in 2013 primarily due to the increase in gathering revenues from Fayetteville Marcellus Shale plays.
Additionally EBITDA generated by our Midstream Services segment in the first quarter rose 10% to $97 million compared to the same period in 2013.
At March 31 2014 our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio was 32% down from 35% at the end of last year.
And our liquidity continues to be in great shape with only a $160 million borrowed on our revolving credit facility at March 31st.
We currently expect our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio at the end of 2014 to be approximately 28% to 30% at current surprises.
I am proud of our first quarter results and I am very excited about the future.
And Ill now turn it over to Bill Way for an update of our operational results.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
To echo Steve and Craigs comments the first quarter of 2014 was a terrific quarter setting records in every key performance indicator and doing so in the phase of a very harsh winter operating conditions especially in the Fayetteville.
I am very proud of the hard work and commitment of all of our employee teams across the company who came together and delivered our strong results.
In the Marcellus Shale our production in the first quarter of 2014 more than doubled versus prior year levels to 58 billion cubic feet of gas which is more than our company produced from the area during the full year of production in 2012.
Our gross operated production surpassed 800 million cubic feet of gas per day during the quarter and is projected to increase to nearly 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day by the end of 2014.
Were continuing to see increases in well productivity from ongoing refinements and completions well placement and from incremental compression especially in our range area in Susquehanna County where gross operated volumes have now eclipsed our volumes coming out of Bradford County and have reached nearly 400 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Separately we spud our first three wells at four well planned Upper Marcellus cast in Bradford County with first production from these wells expected later this year.
On the mid stream side of the business we were gathering 436 million cubic feet of gas per day from 96 miles of gathering line in the Marcellus Shale at March 31st.
We are planning to add considerable amount of compression in northeast Pennsylvania in 2014 which includes placing and service 18 compressors 12 of which will be located in the range area and by the end of the year all of our operated volumes in Bradford Susquehanna and Lycoming Counties will be compressed.
Our gas marketing team is constantly working towards finding additional sales and firm transportation opportunities for our gas and their efforts in the first quarter strengthened our position in the Marcellus by adding a 118 million cubic feet a day of firm transportation.
We now have firm contracts in place which allow us to reach 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day of firm transportation of the basin by year-end 2014.
Through this firm transportation we are able to assure flow everyday and reach our 10 different liquid market points.
We will continue to update you as we are able to obtain more firm transportation of the area as the year progresses.
We are very proud of our Marcellus results to-date our production growth coupled with significant progress on derisking acreage improving well performance and reducing costs has created a potential for our Marcellus business to now be cash flow positive in 2014 assuming current NYMEX prices.
I look forward to reporting more about this in the future.
Switching to the Fayetteville Shale Id first like to speak about the tornadoes in Arkansas earlier this week.
A severe storm system comprising of more than 30 tornadoes passed through Southern U.S.
on Sunday night killing at least 15 people in Arkansas and devastating hundreds of homes and neighborhoods.
In Arkansas entire neighborhoods have been reduced to rubble in the wake of one storm that left path of destruction 30 miles long in areas where many of our employees and contractors employees live.
The hardest hit towns were Vilonia which sustained damage from an EF-4 tornado and Mayflower both of which are located south of our Fayetteville operations.
SWN employees have been affected by the series of deadly tornadoes and several in the SWN family have experienced great loss including homes destroyed and loved ones lost.
Were heavily involved in supporting this area with resources for the Greater Arkansas American Red Cross to aid in their relief efforts there.
Our employees are also rallying to the support of their colleagues and friends that were impacted by the storm through donations and help with cleanup.
Many of our contractor companies have joined with us and our crews and equipment on the ground helping with cleanup and are providing clean water to many residents that have been affected.
Our thoughts and prayers go out to our Southwestern Energy employees and contractor employees and their family friends and neighbors that have been affected by this disaster.
The company fared far better as far as our drilling and production operations are concerned as a result of this.
We did not suffer material interruption or damage or lose any production due to the storm.
As for the first quarter we placed a total 105 wells on line in the Fayetteville Shale with an average initial production rate of 4.3 million cubic feet per day which is 29% higher than a year ago.
Our first quarter results included two wells with initial production rates over 10 million a day and April is already off to a great start with two wells which had peak rates of 11.3 million and 10.7 million cubic feet per day respectively.
In April we also surpassed for the first time the 2.1 Bcf a day mark for the field.
During the quarter we also continued to test in the upper Fayetteville.
One of the wells completed in the first quarter had a see lateral 4 030 feet and an IP rate of 3.8 million cubic feet per day producing from a 10 foot interval and the upper Fayetteville.
We are currently in the process of drilling the remaining 19 upper Fayetteville tests with originally planned and expect these wells to be completed this summer.
We continue to work to drive our costs lower.
One of the components of our vertical integration that we are currently upgrading and which will benefit future costs is the introduction of our new SWN drilling rigs which began this week.
We contracted to build seven new rigs the first of which began drilling its first well on Tuesday in the Fayetteville.
The rigs are scheduled to be delivered every 45 days and the last one being delivered in December.
We expect that these new AC-powered dual few rigs will trim a full day out of the drilling curve further reducing our drilling costs.
Our vertical integration at Fayetteville which includes drillings rigs our company-owned sand plant our two SWN owned frac crews and other field services are providing an average savings of approximately $415 000 per well.
And I must say our vertical integration is the key component of our strong economics and ongoing improvement.
On the Midstream side our gas gathering business is gathering approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day from 1 961 miles of gathering lines on March 31st.
Moving to exploration.
Yesterday we closed on our previously announced acquisition of approximately 312 000 net acres in Northwest Colorado targeting the Niobrara formation.
We plan to begin a five well drilling program in June that includes four vertical test wells and one horizontal well targeting a roughly 400 foot section in the rich condensate volatile oil window of the play.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin play in Eastern Colorado we plan to spud our third well in mid to late May testing the Marmaton and Atoka sections.
We will also test 2 additional exploration ideas in 2014 that we have not yet disclosed.
In closing I am very proud of our team and our first quarter accomplishments.
And I am excited about what is yet to come.
Looking ahead to the remainder of 2014 more records are within sight due to the combination of increased production higher realized prices and our low cost structure.
That concludes my comments.
We will now turn back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
I wonder if I could hit two questions please.
First of all can I have the guidance this year? I realize the needs for some conservatism but given how strong your first quarter volumes were can you speak to the exit rate on any reasons why that one shouldnt continue to the second quarter? And Ive got a more specific question to follow-up please.
There really isnt any reason that we shouldnt continue growing at a good pace.
Now certainly the 23% year-over-year if you look at last year it was -- first quarter was a low number so I dont know that were going to be in the 20% gross rate this year.
But were on the high side of guidance and I guess stay on the high side of guidance as we go through.
The real issue the reason we havent changed guidance is that frankly the Marcellus is performing much better than we thought.
And we may be able to significantly back down on some capital and still hit the numbers we want and we want to watch that for a quarter or more before we make that decision.
But you may see a lower capital for some of our areas and more production.
So thats one of those good things you can have up.
And I want to go to the Fayetteville Steve if I may.
Looking at the IP rate to the latest parts of wells the IP rate obviously fell a bit but the 60 day rate is up quite substantially now.
Obviously there is issues with lots of [winds] there but I just wonder if you could help walk me through that how that dynamic is changing at least what the type curve is on these longer laterals is changing quite a bit compared to what we may be assuming currently.
And obviously it looks like its got outside implication for the EUR so can you give us an idea whats going on there between the lower to up front rate and the significantly bigger 60 day rate? Thanks.
Yes.
Ill let Bill address that.
Yes.
Our IP rate by quarter is determined partly by where we happen to be drilling.
So as we said before geography impacts that number quite a bit.
In the fourth quarter we had a number of longer lateral opportunities in high test areas.
We continue to move around in the field as I mentioned in my opening comments testing these higher rate wells modifying our completion processes and those high rate wells roll through the 30 and 60 day rate and we are seeing that they are sustaining production at this point and we will continue to spread across the field additional testing with both high rate tests and resting of wells to pull the water off which in many parts of the field is also contributing to increased rates.
Remember two conference calls ago we started seeing the high rate wells the big question was are they going to sustain I dont know that we know the answer to whether it is going to sustain yet or not but certainly some of them are.
So I would guess another we need another couple of quarters before we can say yes we are getting more reserves and better wells out of them.
But its sure interesting today.
Steve is there a way that we can figure out what proportion of your drilling backlog is going to is it now longer lateral type design versus the more I guess the standard wells you had for you you would say? There is really not its really not just the longer laterals so it need to be a little bit careful there but some are doing 20% and 25% of this years drilling across the southern part of the field doing these kinds of things.
Some of those lateral lengths are dictated by unit size and geography at the well site.
Thats helpful thanks.
Next question is from the line of Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning.
To follow-up on Dougs question the 20% to 25% of the wells doing these kinds of changes to the completions into the designs is that -- if everything works sort of as you might best plan will it all be 20% to 25% limited by the geology or could it be substantially higher proportion of the wells that you are drilling? As I think Steve mentioned its probably a bit too early to tell.
Were drilling in areas where weve tested less over the years and spreading out across the field.
So in some respects as these high rate wells continue to surprise in terms of performance we have yet to go across the entire field and test this concept.
So what we tried to say is that lets keep IPs on trend but we are going to continue to test this and for a field that has the number of wells that weve drilled in it we think its very exciting news that we can continue to put out wells that exceed 10 million a day of production that can sustain 30 and 60 day rates and just please stay tuned on that and well keep bringing that news to you.
Let me just add that youll see our Investor Relations material here in a couple of days.
I got a glance at it last night and for those who have seen them in the past weve got where weve drilled in last 12 months and weve got stars on the map where its 3 million and 5 million a day.
Going back to Bills comments youre going to see a lot of stars on what people thought were the edges on the field.
And so there is some different geology.
And then just to remind everyone there is the well resting that Bill talked about.
That doesnt necessarily match with the geology and theres surface things weve done to debottleneck and that doesnt necessarily match with the rest more than the geology.
So its a combination of all those things and just stay tuned.
I think the big thing is that the Fayetteville Shale is continuing to get better and for 2014 I can comfortably say the kind of performance we had in the last couple of quarters last year will continue through 2014 and I want to see what happens as we go in future.
Great.
My second question is related to all this is given the changes in the completion designs and the improvements youve seen or you think youre seeing or hope to see combined with the view that gas is going to be between $4 and $5.
Have you had a chance yet to change the criteria so to speak that youre using to select locations in the inventory and are we seeing that already? Or is that sort of yet to come?  Well the criteria we use to select wells are several.
Certainly we want to test areas that are less tested continue to progress the science and learnings around this integrated approach to these high rate areas and along with resting of wells et cetera.
We are always looking to drill the best wells that we have and optimize the cost associated with doing that.
Moving about the field to fully understand the acreage that we have.
All the while retaining the rigor of our investment criteria.
Every well we have at this point has economics that are in excess of those of the investment criteria that we set out the PBI that we talk about.
So I think that I dont see any major change to that criteria as we learn more in a particular area as we move through the field and there is opportunities to increase density of pad drilling to lower cost or things like that were obviously looking at that but I wouldnt say there is any kind of wholesale change at this point.
If youre thinking back to 2012 2012 with the low gas price we were not really doing were doing a modified pad drilling were drilling the best wells in our pad.
We went back to full pad drilling really probably in the third quarter of 2013.
So were not necessarily high grading wells were certainly testing areas were not high grading wells we are drilling pads out.
The flexibility our team shows to be able to maneuver and adapt to learning is a big piece of this.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Folks good morning.
I was wondering if you could speak to the well resting technique in the Fayetteville shale.
Will that result in increased EURs and not just higher initial production rates.
And can it and may be should it be applied to different parts of the basin.
We are testing resting of well across the basin.
So that process and project is ongoing.
We get two benefits from resting of wells.
The first benefit is through water that normally flows back with these wells when they are brought on immediately is retained in the reservoir.
And so the lifting cost associated with these wells goes down the management of the water at the surface is a not an issue because it doesnt come back.
In certain parts of the field we get increased production associated with that and the testing that we are doing is to determine is it the good news of lower cost because of savings of water in parts of the field or the good news of lower cost of savings of water and increased production in additional parts of the field.
So testing is fairly broad and well continue to do that.
In terms of the increased EUR we began this testing program early last year and weve got some additional run time to go to determine whether there is additional EUR associated with that.
Certainly we are able to get additional volume where it happens out does value out in would need us to continue to test that to be certain.
Okay great.
and as a follow-up if you can speak to the Marcellus well quality we observed that the 30 day rate at least per 1 000 feet of lateral drilled increased meaningfully in the period.
What best explains that increase in productivity and should we see that trend continue?  Certainly weve had quite a bit of increase in improved quality in the Marcellus wells.
There is a number of factors to that.
We are understanding better now where to land these wells staying in zone more on these wells.
We have modified our completion using a much larger sand volume in the wells than we have previously.
So we have gone from 350 000 pounds of sand per stage to 500 000 pounds getting better sand placement.
And some of the lateral lengths are extending but the real key is the area that we are doing a lot of the drilling in and range in Susquehanna County the rock fabric really responds to these improved completion techniques and quality of completions and thus the well performance is continuing to increase.
As we learn more about that we certainly expect to see that continue on trend.
Thanks again.
Another way to say that is Bradford County wells are so good the Susquehanna County wells are looking as good or better.
Got it thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen of Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Just wanted to quantify one thing in the first quarter how much of an impact that you have in the Fayetteville harsh winter condition like do you have any numbers that you can put to that?  All in the three major ice storms that we had it satisfies about 1.7 Bcf the team were able to claw by back to the point where we got we met to the target that we set out.
So big issue was ice we have winter weather everywhere in our operation but Arkansas was particularly hit with ice so the a ability of move around but at any one-time I think we had in one instance like we had 800 Bcf off the table but came back after few days.
Okay.
And then To jump Bill hesitates before he answers a question.
One thing I could tell guys around here is our job is to give results not have excuses.
So I had a (inaudible) to tell me you could talk about the result.
Thanks Steve.
Then in the Marcellus you talked about trying to reduce gathering expenses as you go forward and you have a lot of growth coming can you talk about how much of the gathering expense reduction is just due to volume growth and how much of it actually renegotiating contracts and installing on equipment and kind of quantify the cents per Mcf impact on [LOE]?  Well I guess what I would say in this regard because were in active discussions we are working with one of our third party gathers to look at restructuring our agreement to add additional volume and area to that and try to work out how we can get gathering rates down.
Certainly as our volume has come up dramatically excuse me volumes come up dramatically we have on a unit basis been able to bring those costs down.
Our aim is to keep the gathering assets that we have rightsized in full and those conversations with our third-party gatherer are well in progress and we should be bringing you some further information about that shortly.
Okay.
That was my two questions.
Thanks.
You bet.
Our next question is from the line Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
When you look at I guess the forward gas prices and it seems like somewhere around $4.50 plus might be at least a kind of a reasonable range to think about.
Specifically with the Fayetteville Shale what is your current thoughts on potential like inventory counts at $4.50 plus NYMEX type price? And if you could add on to that where could it go with some of these drilling and improvements in cost savings that youre seeing? I think there is not much difference between $4 and $4.50 when you talk about the Lower Fayetteville.
Weve got somewhere just about 5 000 locations gross locations left to drill only above $4 in that area.
I dont know the well count changes much as price goes up or some of the things were doing the quality of the well I think changes if you get it out of the ground faster you get out more reserves as it goes through it.
We do have the Upper Fayetteville we mentioned that.
And we dont normally talk about that in our numbers but I think on the lowest side youre talking about 700 wells there and could be up over 1 000 wells before its all done in the Upper Fayetteville.
And then Ill remind everyone that we still have the exploration acreage of a 170 000 of exploration acreage in the federal part of our acreage that weve drilled 11 wells on.
We know at least a third of that looks good but actually several years before we can get to it so thats not in our work count either.
Okay thats good color.
And maybe this is just sort of a bigger picture view and when you look at Fayetteville then what you describe is probably at least the 10 year inventory of joint opportunities there.
And when you look forward to LNG being more important coming out of the U.S.
starting in probably a year two have you all stepped back and looked at the position the Fayetteville being able to access that area where youd feel comfortable to maybe negotiate some of your volumes to that type of project?  Were talking to a lot of people and I dont know that weve got anything I am not on it.
But certainly power plants big manufacturing industrials or building new plans and LNG export all have need for natural gas.
And the interesting thing about it is when youre start [planting] gas reversing out of Marcellus moving south it goes right by the Fayetteville shale.
Fayetteville shale is probably one of the best positions gas properties in the country for the new demand.
And so we do talk to people but I think weve got a premium asset there and its a right thing came along we make a longer term deal its not were excited about the Fayetteville and (inaudible).
I appreciate that.
Thanks guys.
Next question is from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you for taking my question.
Bill I think you did referenced in your prepared remarks about Marcellus that youve done some derisking there.
And Im wondering if you could add some specifics to that and I guess what Im really after is maybe a review of your testing program in that Wyoming acreage and where you guys staying with that and if your plan to (inaudible) there? Well we have derisked about 44 000 acres of our acreage and done that across the fees certainly theres been a lot of focus on Susquehanna County to understand the range area better and then moving out from there.
The Wyoming County acreage we have begun testing on we have had a couple of different well results as we expect we would have with sort of that line of demarcation that runs right to the middle of that acreage.
Our plans are to test six wells total in the Wyoming County area along with Sullivan this year and then continue to do some further testing in Tioga and Lycoming.
I think the initial well was pretty strong and then we have had a couple of wells that have given us a little bit of question but they are still cleaning up and weve got further work to do on that.
No bad news or good news it is pretty early time.
Typically Bill we are all talking about vertical wells here right? At this point.
Right okay.
Thank you thats helpful.
And then Steve I was wondering on your last call you offered some you offered that your realizations up in the Marcellus have been good for the first two months of the year.
And I am wondering if you could offer any comments on what your realizations look like in April and what timeframe we should really be paying attention to the spot prices up there? Yes.
I think right now as we start paying attention to spot prices the first quarter was good where first quarter were plus 15 I think it was in the Marcellus 15 so far in April its a minus number.
And I think you are going to see a minus number as you go through the rest of the year.
That goes back to my initial comments about guidance.
So we want to see the gas price so we could start seeing if our guidance makes sense.
If you remember our guidance was $0.55 to $0.60 negative for the company versus historical that was $0.45 to $0.50 type number.
So were still watching I dont have any magic news or anything that I can tell you that says $0.55 to $0.60 shouldnt be a good number.
Certainly first quarter was better than we thought but there is a lot still to go and there is a lot different ways it can go.
Thanks Steve.
Thats it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Allman with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you hi everybody.
Good morning.
Could you talk about your ability to grow your Marcellus production in the context of your firm transportation and firm sales agreements and talk about your need to sell on a spot basis and if you can give us some volumes that would be great? Between now and the end of the year as I said in my prepared remarks by the end of the year well have just over a $1 billion a day of firm transportation to our 10 liquid markets out of the area.
And our growth plans are to grow in that direction.
I would strategy has always been to secure firm and then grow from there.
As weve talked on previous calls taking that number further going from 1 to 1.2 Bcf a day one of the things thats happening in the near-term is a lot of other people have called up with the idea of meeting firm transportation and so the cost of that has gone up significantly.
In our minds continuing to add to affirm at those high numbers just doesnt make sense at this moment.
And so we continue to evaluate them one by one.
There are a lot of proposed pipeline projects and opportunities to bring additional firm capacity up in the area and were analyzing those and watching those and well add to those as we go.
We added 118 million a day of capacity by the end of the year but well continue to do that as we can.
In terms of spot sales we constantly are out looking for opportunities to both sell gas on the spot market where we can make good margin either through our transportation or otherwise we also have done certainly in this first quarter gone out and bought gas and moved it though our firm transportation realizing some fairly hefty margins as well.
So we are keeping ourselves nimble up there putting our ability to move the gas everyday and then now watching the market.
And I would say that any given day you may have between 30 million and 50 million a day going into the spot market anything you complete during the months is definitely going to spot market.
On a long term basis we dont want to get more than about a 10% at the high end of that of wherever our production is and probably in the 5% range.
So you buy a firm you want to make sure that you use the firm so you can always make a little bit above it but we will just follow the firm curve.
So on that I think on March 31st your gross production was 823 million a day I think that was 200 plus million a day above your firm transportation firm sales so could you explain how you are moving that? Yes.
I am not sure its quite 200 million a day you got the most updated graph but its probably a little over 100 million a day.
Were drilling like anyone else is were selling it where we can sell it.
Okay.
So there are some periods where you are selling more than that $30 million to $50 million on the spot basis? Yes.
And Ill just tell everyone we have got -- with 118 million a day we have got an updated curve.
Its smoother than the last one you saw that had little cliff on it right now and so our -- Brad will be happy to send that thing and why dont you shoot him an email.
But if we put a pad on and the pad is 100 million or 50 million a day or 70 million a day for whatever period of time we get some next months and you get it to the monthly sales its spot sales.
At June we go up to 850.
So were -- a period of time where we have that extra production is pretty short as well and then go from 850 million to 1 billion right through the year.
Great.
Thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please go with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning Good morning.
I wanted pick up on your comment regarding potentially higher production and lower CapEx.
You talked about improved completion techniques in the Marcellus is in part to be using more sand is one reason for the improved well performance.
Would that not though have an increase in well costs and what would be the offsetting factor to be able to reduce CapEx? I think the real short answer is we may drill between 5 and 10 fewer wells and still hit the guidance that we had.
So you are right if you add -- sands relatively expensive its really the fluid pumping.
But if you put more sand in it little more expensive but its probably a well count thing more than its going to be and that really just goes back to rocks looking better in Susquehanna than we originally thought it was.
Great.
My follow-up is along those lines within Susquehanna can you characterize the regional variability results on the acreage pushing north particularly those that were acquired last year relative to the southern blocks? Again simple to answer is that the big block we have in Northeast Susquehanna around New York boarder were about two-thirds away across that acreage and its looking very strong its looking very comparable to Bradford County.
We havent drilled all the way across the acreage yet.
So thats still to be learned if stays that strong to that area.
But it just -- were seeing some very good rock in that northern acreage block.
It hasnt degraded like we thought it might do with geology or getting little bit of and it still might as we go forward north we just dont know yet.
Got it.
But thats the area for the upside surprises that northern blocks?  Yes.
The Wyoming -- as I talked about for Sullivan were just in first passes of drilling well.
So its I guess a couple more quarters before we can make even assessment of what we have got there.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from the line of Bob Brackett Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
Quick question on reserves.
Back in 2012 you took a fairly large negative revision on Fayetteville gas just on trailing price.
Is that stuff reversed this year if gas price hold up?  We -- if you think about 2013 bookings in 2012 to put in perspective we have about 1 500 PUDs on our books.
At the end of 2013 I think we have about 1 200 PUDs on our book.
So we got far way back in 2013 and then as price stays about $4 the average price in 2012 was 4.12 which should get most of that back on our books.
So yes you have continued reserves come back in our books from just adding price to the overall situation.
The other little off topic I hear you guys using the term SWN more often is that what we should call you and are you guys rebranding now that North Eastern becomes more and more important? I dont know we are branding so much -- we are SWN internally all time so that this maybe the case.
I can tell you that we did try to copyright SWN and its already copyrighted so I dont that well rebranding SWN.
Okay.
So Ill stick to the long one.
Thanks.
Yes just take a long.
Our next question is from the line of Tim Rezvan of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning folks.
I was hoping to circle back on the theme of spending.
It looks like you are going to have a pretty good free cash flow surplus this year.
And you just choose the idea of maybe cutting spending a bit in guidance this leaves you unlevered relative to historical levels.
With Fayetteville economics improving and gas prices rallying how do you think about your rig count or activity levels in the back half of the year? I think thats why we havent changed our guidance yet because certainly one of the options would be if we feel comfortable about the price not just for this year but for the next three and four years we might go faster in the Fayetteville and we just have to make that decision.
And so thats part of the options we have.
And certainly as we test some of the exploration ideas and any of those work those could be places to put capital not necessarily this year but in nearby future years.
And then the Niobrara if we can get all of the permits that we want get all five wells drilled there is about $50 million of capital there on top of our acquisition.
We just dont know yet whether we can actually do it or not.
So thats part of the variables and not updating guidance quite yet.
Okay.
Do you think you might have an answer by the 2Q call? I think we probably will.
Certainly our Board would like us to have an answer by then.
Okay.
And then one last one on the acquisitions unlike some other E&amp;Ps that have really paid up a premium for kind of known derisk inventory youve favored more exploratory acquisitions given kind of the head fakes weve seen at the Brown Dense so just see uneven results.
How do you think about buying exploratory rock versus getting something that you know you can develop going forward? Its a matter of what risk you take.
Certainly if you get in early in our first mover and do the exploratory part its less expensive to gain to it but you have that risk but it may not work.
And as you said the head fakes of Brown Dense was in.
We know internally that were going to have more of those head fakes than we have successes.
But historically we found Fayetteville we found the Marcellus.
When you find those those cover up those other ones as you go through.
When you start going to second mover or you go finally do an acquisition you certainly have to pay a lot more for it.
And youve taken some risk out of it but youve also taken some of the potential upside and for us youve taken out some of our skill set.
And when I say some of our skill set were good at drilling wells and developing very large projects and if its already half way developed because I took the risk out of it and that took some of that learning things that we could have done and potentially done better.
So we like getting in early not necessarily it doesnt have to be just prior to exploration but we like getting in early.
Then applying that vertical integration time logistics that we do and all the other things were good at to add a little bit extra that someone else cant do.
Thank you for color.
Next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning gentlemen.
Steve I also wanted to follow-up on that free cash flow question for some time you guys had been outspending cash flows as your kind of early stage of spending in the Marcellus had some of the Brown Dense spending and then obviously the low gas prices.
Now that you are essentially moving into kind of free cash flow mode.
I was just wondering what the long term outlook going to look like for SWN are you going to try to grow within cash flows or are you going to perhaps outspend a little bit to drive the NAV forward.
So just trying to get some thoughts around that? Well you cant go further and outspend your cash flow.
Some of it doesnt work as you go through it.
But our goal is to have more projects when you have capital you dont have to worry about how you make those projects work.
So we are still on a go and well still do the exploration on those various things that go with it.
Obviously if we dont get that or the timing is not right and then you have some excess cash flow and then you have to figure what you are going to do.
And as I mentioned before the Fayetteville shale has a lot of locations that go with it and as long as price looks reasonable going forward we probably cant go faster there we just have to be certain that we dont think this price today.
So Steve if you are going to add incremental capital into your businesses sounds like it would go into Fayetteville ahead of the Marcellus is that fair? It would today it may not in a couple of years if we are going back to the tracks we want to follow at front curve.
We put all the capital we can to it right now to follow that front curve.
There isnt much more we can do there.
Okay.
and just my follow-up is just on the cost to firm today.
Bill mentioned its getting a little bit more competitive.
Can you comment on where the market is today and your willingness to sign firm at call it todays kind of market prices or additional firm? The line thats assigned firm depends on where its going and how many sales points it has.
Its the one with single sales point and its not a really good sales point and no one is going to pay a lot for that.
But to put it in perspective our average all-in price out there is just something over $0.30 for the transportation that we have to-date and looking at some of the projects that are out there.
There are several projects that are $0.70 amount type projects and there are some at size $1 amount.
And in some cases that would make sense because they are going to very high quality markets and in other cases it doesnt make sense.
So that goes back to Bills comment its almost double going to some markets and we just have to determine if that makes sense or not for us as a company.
Alright thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead with your question.
Pickering Holt</strong> Hi thanks good morning.
I was just wondering if you could just provide an update on where you expect your firm transportation to be in the Marcellus as of but I guess or if the cadence throughout 2015 with these recent additions? I dont have the exact number in front of me but I think it would be less than 1.1 Bcf a day till the end of 2015.
Pickering Holt</strong> I was just wondering is there any way you could provide any additional color on which markets youre delivering gas to by hub in the Northeast? A lot of companies have done that.
I hesitate and the reason I hesitate the assumption is that that gas can only go to that point and theres no way to move things around.
Ill remind people that both in the fourth quarter and the first quarter we had capacity on one line.
(Lighty) was selling for less than $1 we could take the (lighty) gas move it to another sales point and make $3 NIM on it.
And so in general I think we can tell you that were trying do the points of a compass and going several different directions and kind of even that out over the next two to three years.
But anyone who is trying to go to a certain point and say this point is going to be bad for a long period of time this point is going to be good is going to be a surprise as the year rolls out.
Pickering Holt</strong> All right.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Stephen Shepherd with Simmons.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
My Fayetteville and Marcellus questions have been answered but I was just wondering is there any intention to add any more frac spreads this year to the two that you currently have?  At this point no.
We havent made a decision on that.
I mean what we do is we look at our utilization.
We look at projects that we have and we look at the sort of the activity level that is in by play to make sure that if we were to add any kind of additional equipment we get 100% utilization out of it.
So for example were looking as a part of the whole Niobrara evaluation how far do we take vertical integration into that play.
Should that play be successful? So theres lots of evaluation going on same in the Marcellus.
The other thing that were able to do because we can move fairly quickly to deploy those type of spreads or equipment that certainly impacts the price we pay with third parties.
So weve been able to bring down the cost of fracing drilling everything because of the presence of our vertical integration businesses.
So say tuned right now we like the mix that we have in the Fayetteville with third party and ourselves but that team is continuously looking at ways to drive costs down and one way is to invest in not only frac spreads but others but they certainly has to fall in the overall capital portfolio discussions as well.
To put for instance a frac spread to work its working 24 hours a day in the Fayetteville and then quite be the same on all of plays with the rough number they can do about 100 wells a year.
So it really just goes back when youre ready to commit to another 100 wells (inaudible) pits for several years and then you start talking about any frac spreads were not quite there yet.
Okay thats great thanks.
And one more for me can you provide any more detail about the new ventures testing programs for later this year as you talked about the five well program of a horizontal and four verticals that you have.
Where specifically on your acreage are those wells going to be drilled have you figured that out yet.
Is there any sort of intriguing offset operator activity thats driving those decisions to drill in any certain areas.
Just trying to get some thoughts on that just anything additional to add there.
Yes youre talking about the Niobrara.
Yes.
I think there is only one offset operator thats doing things its a private company on a demo called Axia.
I dont know exactly what their program is but they are deeper in the basin for the most part dry gas with a little bit of liquids in one of their wells.
Were going for liquids window that will have some gas with it and so the intriguing part and the thing we are watching for these wells are set up to go both laterally and across that window and fine tune where that window wanted to be and what effective that window is.
So there arent really other operators right there do anything but each well will tell us a little bit about how big it might be and the quality of it.
Okay thank you.
Good morning.
Just to jump back on the Niobrara that you were just talking about you said there is not a lot of offset operators have but did you get a reasonable amount of well control from the acreage that you acquired and was there some prior drilling there that was helpful.
There were several wells drilled some were drilled all the way back to 20s and 30s where there some conventional production out of Niobrara out of structural traps.
When I say conventional it was actually fractured Niobrara but it produced out of structural traps.
There were some wells drilled by Quicksilver and Shell over the last two to three years.
That well werent in the locations that we wouldnt want to drill and werent even really tested the way wed want to test gave us a lot of geologic information and the key wells have made us excited about the play where these wells drilled in a gas window and a lot of the gas window make excited we have mapped up the area projected that it was not going to be gas it kind of confirmed our thought process in the play and thats what got us to a pick up the acreage and go from there.
So in the general area there is probably most of 100 different wells drilled in most of those are going those conventional structures from the past.
Okay.
Great thank you thats helpful.
And I missed the first part of prepared remarks.
So I apologize if I am asking first and then sorry if undisclosed but could you give you an update on the DJ Basin please?  Yes we will be drilling an additional well in the western portion of our acreage here in the next period of time a vertical test from Marmaton and Atoka to again look at oil cut and test our process weve got some wells to follow along to find that depending on that outcome of this next test.
And to remind everyone we drilled two wells best we have is about 140 per day oil rate but had the water and were actually going deeper into the basin and hoping that we get rid of that water and if get rid of water then we could have a commercial place.
So it will take one or maybe two more wells to figure out (inaudible) there.
Thanks very much I appreciate that.
Our next question is from Subhash Chandra with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes thanks for squeezing me in.
I guess the first question is one of context and to revisit free cash flow theme.
It seems like I see parallel here in the Barnett as in the Fayetteville where but you did see leading edge wells improve and become more efficient but Barnett was in production of one up and but you can keep production flat with 10% of the rigs.
So when I see sort of these developments in the Fayetteville I know youve talked to maybe accelerating activity in the hurdles and doing that.
But is there a view that you might see this thing as really a cash cow overtime and where the hurdles are so high $5 to $6 gas for acceleration or is that too extreme of you for the Fayetteville? I dont know about extreme view or not but Fayetteville Shale for the last couple of years weve been working on keeping it within cash flow and in 2013 I think it generated about $75 million of capital over its capital budget.
To run a rig we need over $100 million per year.
So really there was no decision or discussion until very recently there you have enough money to even add a rig and a rig will add about 60 wells a year to a program.
So weve intentionally leveled in cash flow.
We have done it for two reasons; one you got to get to a point where you do that on each of your projects and you generate the excess cash like so they can fund exploration and other things you are doing.
But the second thing was as gas price moved up and down that was our way to moderate if gas prices went down a little slower or went up and went a little faster.
So we will stay within cash flow in the Fayetteville Shale but doesnt necessarily mean well take all the cash flow to Fayetteville Shale.
We will look at that and make more decisions as we go in the future.
As far as growing the Fayetteville Shale or not growing it it is as you said like the Barnett.
We have got I think its hurdle in the play and its really us drilling with eight wells capable of horizontal production and if we double that rig count that production will go up.
So its really just a matter of capital and rig count that drives really have slight production or increase in production.
Okay.
And a follow-up your reference quick silver and shale wells and it wasnt clear from taking to quick silver but were those wells in the fractured Niobrara.
Did you sort of hint that maybe they were unstimulated under-stimulated or what were shortfalls of their locations and completion designs?  Both of those companies took slight different approach to each other with certainly (inaudible) different approach to what we were doing.
They were working around these fields over there.
They were under the thought process that if you put water on the formation (inaudible) formation.
So accept for I think it was two fracs in a quick silver well all the well that shale and quick silver drilled were fraced or were fraced with butane or something else really put no water on the formation and didnt get really get fracs away.
Exit is coming down dip if thick water fracs and (inaudible) formation is not susceptible to damage.
So were looking at it as a more conventional unconventional where they though there were some rock characteristic issues and were looking for natural fractures around these fields.
So its a completely different concept.
Okay.
If I can just add something like a was that the clear content they shared?  Yes.
And it is actually a paper written back I think is back in early 70s that said the Niobrara had clay in this area and you have to be careful about it.
We have not seen anything in the quarter as again certainly the recent fracking verifies that.
We havent seen that characteristic so we dont know exactly what that paper was written with was or what the characteristic were that made that paper happen that way but that was the thought process.
Understood great.
Thank you very much.
And next question is from Joe Magner with Macquarie Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks for making room.
I know we are running late.
Just one quick question some of the concepts in new well designs and completion techniques some other testing are those enough in enough themselves to perhaps go back to the drawing board and revaluate plays that either similar thought not to work of the commercially viable or new plays that again might fall into that bucket but with this new line of thinking and reasoning perhaps might work? Just curious if that is enough to maybe bring some of these plays over the hurdle or reservoir quality is still going to be the key differentiating factor and these are just going to be used to enhance results just curious what your thoughts are there? I think I would expand the category not just the way you complete the wells but the way you drill the wells.
We can do things considerably faster cheaper today and there are certain thought processes on how you completed wells its different than it was even 18 months or two years ago.
And so yes I think you can go back and start reevaluating plays that may not have worked or plays that worked but you might be able to get them extended out a little bit farther as it goes through.
I havent seen anything that we have done thats is radically different so here is a new play and you got to go into it but we are doing some fairly viable experiments in some of our fracs.
So I dont know that that wont happen.
Great.
Thats all I have got.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Sameer Uplenchwar with Global Hunter.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Thanks a lot for taking my question.
Quick question on trying to understand on Brown Dense did you mentioned earlier that youll have a decision by 2Q or is the timing a little bit late on that and what are you expecting over there? And then the second question on new ventures you mentioned at the beginning of the call that youre looking at other plays.
Are they natural gas plays liquids plays and also are they in the lower 48 or internationally? Thanks a lot.
Let me start with the new ventures.
New ventures we will roll out a couple of new plays during the year and at the moment we do that we will talk about them at that point in time.
Any point in time were working on 8 or 9 ideas some of those ideas are gas and some of them are liquids.
So internally we dont separate our gas and liquids.
We just look at economics.
And I talk people all time if we could find another Marcellus I would love to find another Marcellus.
So we dont do anything from that perspective.
From international versus U.S.
everything were doing right now is in North America.
And I remind everyone weve got new (inaudible) as well.
But it doesnt mean someday we wont be international just right now [our loving ones] are working on our North America.
Going back to the Brown Dense and one will know something.
I know I saw some things written today about well this latest well has a low rate.
Thats not even the issue.
The issue with the latest well is that its a mile away from our wells.
Its very economic and it has black oil in it.
The well where we are very economic has a honey colored light liquids as you go through.
When you do all the fancy work on it and try to figure out what the sources are they came from the exact same source.
The black looks like its water washed for those who are into those kinds of things and the other doesnt look like its water washed.
So there is a very complex history in the Brown Dense and I kind of put it in the category of the bully.
Sometimes Ill tell you that when the bully comes up the thing to do is go fight him.
But you dont want to do that too many times as you get beat up too many times if he keeps beating you up.
And right now Brown Dense has beaten us up.
And so I dont know how long well take the beating.
Maybe its a quarter maybe its two quarters but not too far out.
And yet weve got a good well.
Theres another well that the industry drill its good well or some wells the industry is drilling in the area and weve got some more ideas and I dont want to go in those ideas because they could have consequences for other plays but well continue to work on it.
But were not going to talk much about it.
So if you notice Bill didnt say anything about it.
We had one paragraph and youll see in our Investor Relations thats kind of going back at the Investor Relations and look what it says from here on and well just keep working on.
If we find something good well tell you.
And if not so thats just from the Brown Dense standpoint.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead with your question.
Could you talk about how constrained your production growth is in 2015 and beyond given firm transportation and firm sell agreements you have in place right now? I havent seen the latest spreadsheet but and then you also talked about your expectation for adding additional firm transportation or firm sells in 2015 and beyond.
Well we havent guided or even talked much about 2015.
So I dont know whether its constrained or are we going to grow rapidly or were not going to grow rapidly.
Stay tuned on that part.
As far as firm capacity and what were going to add in 2015 there is not much out there frankly so I wouldnt expect much more than we have now.
We keep chipping away and well we added that $118 million this time.
But well keep chipping away there is not a big amounts that are kind of available in 2015.
The new capacity that we were talking about is something beyond 2015 and really frankly beyond 2016 and 2017 as it goes through from the Marcellus.
But dont just assume the Marcellus may flatten a little bit on the firm dont assume that means the company is going to flatten there is a lot of different options we have.
So again stay tuned for 2015 were still trying to fair our guidance for 2014.
But as of right now by year-end you expect to be over Bcf per day growth I mean is there a possibility in 2015 is flat from there.
Or no I mean  Just stay tuned.
I dont know enough yet.
Could you describe the other options you have aside from the additional FT in firm sales? Well the biggest option you have is slow down your capital and just follow the firm curve and have your growth rate if youre going to have growth rate from somewhere else.
We are going to do whats knew with economic were going to know what makes sense and the growth rate will be the growth rate.
Okay great very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time Ill turn the floor back to management for closing comment.
Thank you.
The average gas price through May averaged $4.84 this year and you only needs $3.40 average price for the rest of this year to $3 to $4 in 2014.
If I think back a year ago that would have been almost an impossible discussion that you think about today.
It was also seem highly unlikely the Southwestern Energy would generate $25 million of free cash flow above our investments in the first quarter of 2014.
And was even more improbable that we would hit the capital efficiency so strong that we maybe going to incorporate a large part of our $180 million acquisition in our current capital budget and still beat our original production guidance.
As weve demonstrated this quarter and really over the last few years.
Were designed to provide good returns in low price environments and great returns on this $4 gas.
We continue to believe that true success starts with curiosity and curiosity leads the learning learning leads to new ideas new projects and new ways of doing things.
And I think as you seen in todays conversation and our press release all of those things are happening as what were doing.
And then true success and going back to the last question isnt talking about or targeting growth rates its based on firm economics.
And I think weve shown a disciplined approach to delivering those above average economics and when we give you above average economics we provide high growth.
My promise to you is that we will continue to keep focused on what is true success thats building our future by improving the return on every dollar we invest.
And 2014 is going to be fun for us and for you and so stay tuned.
Thank you for listening.
Have a great weekend and that concludes our call.
Thank you.
You maybe now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Teleconference.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning.
Thank you for all of you joining us today.
With me today is Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Executive VP of Exploration and Business Development; and Brad Sylvester our VP of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of yesterdays press release regarding our second quarter results you can find a copy of all of this on our website at swn.com.
Also Id like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors in the forward-looking statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now lets begin.
We had a top tier second quarter led by solid performance from our core Marcellus and Fayetteville shale assets which continued to deliver more production with less capital.
Because of this ongoing efficiency we have raised our production guidance for the second half of the year.
We will invest approximately $280 million in a new project in the Niobrara formation in the Sand Wash basin and have increased the total capital by only $75 million.
Craig and Bill will give more details about these areas in a few minutes.
I want to spend little time talking about our thoughts on gas price.
Remember  you may remember that we based our 2014 capital plan on $3.75 NYMEX gas price and last quarter we stated that we want to watch the storage fill through the summer before talking about or possibly changing our guidance for capital budgets.
As it stands today the storage is filling at a pace to reach acceptable levels going into the winter and now that now that we can see or begin to see beyond the effects created by the cold winter of last year we are comfortable the fundamental NYMEX gas price going forward should be above $4.
We still believe this will be the most difficult summer for pricing in Marcellus shale and SWN is building a viable portfolio of firm capacity and hedging to allow us to thrive in both todays pricing environment as well as a potential volatility over the next few years.
In addition since first of the year weve been approached by several entities regarding long term contracts to fill the growing demand.
Craig will talk a little about this but I want to mention three aspects for your consideration.
First long term contracts to end user deals -- and end user deals are being done for demand as early as 2015.
Second both the SWNs major producing areas are prime positions for taking advantage of this new demand.
And third Southwesterns investment grade and our concentrated assets allow us to be one of the preferred providers for many of these major projects.
With that I will now turn the teleconference over to Craig for an update on second quarter results.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
As Steve mentioned our results in the second quarter were outstanding primarily driven by higher product volumes.
Excluding certain non-cash items we reported record net income of $207 million or $0.59 per diluted share for the second quarter compared to $190 million or $0.54 per diluted share for the second quarter 2013.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $579 million up 18% compared to this time last year.
Operating income for our exploration and production segment was $275 million up % from the $253 million we reported in the second quarter of 2013 primarily due to higher production volumes offset slightly by lower realized gas prices and an increase in operating costs and expenses due to increased activity levels.
Including hedges we realized an average gas price of 3.77 per Mcfe during the second quarter which was down from 3.87 per Mcf in the second quarter 2013.
Excluding hedges we realized an average gas price of 3.58 per Mcf in the Marcellus and 4.11 per Mcf in the Fayetteville.
When considering the impact of settlements from our financial basis hedge program our realized average price in the Marcellus was 3.66 per Mcf for the quarter.
Our gas marketing team has had good success in securing additional firm sales agreements which along with our financial basis hedging activities protects 58% of our Marcellus production for the remainder of 2014 at NYMEX minus $0.12 per Mcf excluding transportation charges.
Currently we also have about 30% of our 2015 Marcellus margins protected with financial basis hedges and firm sales agreements at a price of NYMEX minus $0.14 per Mcf also excluding transportation charges.
We currently have 233 Bcf or approximately 60% of our remaining 2014 projected natural gas production hedge to fixed price loss at an average price of 4.35 per MMBtu.
We also have 240 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2015 at an average price of 4.40 per MMBtu.
To date we have approximately 1 Bcf for day affirmed sales contracts in place with LNG and other utility and industrial customers for Fayetteville Marcellus Gas that have an average price of NYMEX minus $0.06.
These contracts include significant multi-year contracts.
One that begins later this year at 100 million cubic feet of gas per day and one that begins on 2015 also at 100 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Approximately 88% of the volumes associated with these sales contracts are sourced from the Fayetteville.
On the cost side our cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in our industry with all in cash operating costs of approximately $1.29 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2014 compare to a $1.24 for Mcfe last year.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net expense and taxes.
Least operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.90 per Mcfe in the second quarter up from $0.85 per Mcfe last year primarily due to higher gathering costs associated with our growth in the Marcellus Shale and an increase in compression costs.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.23 per Mcfe down from $0.24 per Mcfe a year ago and were lower due to a larger increase in productions volumes than in personnel costs.
Taxes other than income taxes were flat of $011 per Mcfe and the full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment was $1.09 per Mcfe compared to a $1.05 last year.
Operating income from our midstream services segment rose 27% to $93 million in the second quarter compared to the same quarter in 2013 primarily due to increase in gathering revenues from our Fayetteville Marcellus Shale place.
Mid-stream EBITDA also surpassed $100 million a company record and rose 26% to $107 million in the second quarter compared to the same period in 2013.
At June 30 2014 our debt to total book capitalization ratio was 31% down from 35% at the end of 2013 and our liquidity continues to be in great shape with only $172 million borrowed on our revolving credit facility at June 30.
We currently expect our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio at the end of 2014 to be approximately 28% to 30% at current share prices.
I am proud of our second quarter results and excited about the future.
Ill now turn it over to Bill Way for an update on our operational results.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter was outstanding.
We again set production records as our results in the Marcellus Shale continued to deliver exceptional growth.
We also had one of our best quarters ever in the Fayetteville as we were able to place on production several recent new wells with impressive initial rates including a record well at over 14 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We remain really encouraged about opportunities that lie ahead of us in our exploration projects which Ill cover in a few moments.
Im extremely proud of all the hard work and relentless commitment to adding value that all of our employee teams have across the company to continue to work together and deliver these results.
To begin with the Marcellus Shale our production of 61 Bcf in the second quarter grew by 80% over our volumes produced in the second quarter of 2013.
We now expect to beat our original production forecast from this area while at the same time drilling about ten less wells than we originally planned and finish the year with two rigs running with one flat crew.
As a result our Marcellus business will require approximately $60 million less capital than originally forecast to deliver this improved volume performance.
We are continuing to have encouraging results as we move north and east in our range area in Susquehanna County and during the quarter we drilled two northern most wells in the county to-date which reached the farthest northern boundary of our acreage at the New York State border.
Formation thickness and pressures have surprised us to the upside as the thickness of this area of the lower Marcellus is well over 100 feet and the pressure gradients are higher than we originally thought.
These latest results are very encouraging and we will keep you posted on our progress in this area of the county.
Were continuing to test acreage in Wyoming and Sullivan Counties and are currently drilling our first horizontal well in Wyoming County the Dimmig 2H which is planned to be tested in the fourth quarter.
Three vertical wells have also been drilled in Wyoming and Sullivan County to help delineate our acreage.
Weve begun testing the upper Marcellus formation and our first well the Pristine Perkin 7H located in Bradford County is drilled.
Our next three upper Marcellus wells are planned to be drilled by the end of the third quarter and all four of these wells are planned to be completed in the fourth quarter.
In mid-stream we are moving 744 million cubic feet of gas per day in the Marcellus Shale at June 30<sup>th</sup> and transporting the gas through our firm transportation capacity to market.
We continue to work on adding to and improving our portfolio from a transportation capacity out of Pennsylvania which totals under contract to more than 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day by year end and increases to almost 1.2 billion cubic feet per day in 2016.
Well update you on our progress as the year continues.
Moving on to the Fayetteville Shale we had one of our best quarters in the companys history related to well performance and initial production rates and placed a total of a 145 wells online at an average initial production rate of roughly 4.4 million cubic feet per day a rate which over 20% higher than a year-ago levels.
Our second quarter results include 7 out of the top 10 highest IP rate wells and included four wells which had peak rates in June ranging to 13 million to 14.1 million cubic feet per day of gas.
You may recall that at this time last year the highest rate well in the Fayetteville was recorded at 8.7 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We also continue to test the upper Fayetteville formation and to date we have drilled a total of 45 wells.
We drilled 15 Upper Fayetteville wells to the first six months of this year.
Several of these wells are still choked and are continued to clean up however six of these wells had an average initial production rate over 4 point million cubic feet of gas per day with the highest initial production rate being 6.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We plan to drill and complete five additional upper Fayetteville wells later in the year.
Our vertical integration in the Fayetteville continues to be a key value adding component of our strategy going forward and a significant benefit to us resulting in an average savings of approximately $437 000 per well or 15% of the total well cost of every well in the second quarter.
Additionally our third of seven new drilling rigs began drilling this month and results from these first three rigs to-date are exceeding our expectations.
In Mid Stream as Craig mentioned our large position in Fayetteville is gaining considerable attention from current and future long term sales customers and we continue to work on adding to our long term sales portfolio.
Our gas gathering business is gathering and transporting approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day at June 30<sup>th</sup>.
We have additional transportation capacity to deliver any growth from our acreage in the play and we are positioned well very well to supply future long term gas demand from our Fayetteville asset.
Moving on to exploration we began completion of our first vertical well in North West Colorado targeting the Niobrara formation.
The Welker well earlier this week and are currently drilling our second of four vertical wells planned for the year.
Our first horizontal well in the area is planned to be on production by year end.
We look forward to what we have to learn in this new exploration play and will be reporting more of our plans going forward here in December.
In our Denver-Julesburg Basin oil play in Eastern Colorado we are completing our third well targeting the Marmaton and Atoka sections and will have results from this well in the fourth quarter.
In closing we have had extraordinary results to-date from an extraordinary team of people.
There is more to come in 2014.
I look forward to sharing those with you as the year progresses.
This concludes my comments and I will turn the call back over to the operator wholl explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you well now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks good morning Steve and good morning everybody.
Steve the very strong results in the Fayetteville as I understand it are in an area that I guess had previously not been quite as prospective as the broader position you have in the play.
I am just wondering what exactly has changed there in terms of -- I mean there has obviously been a very significant step up I guess you said in the release seven of the best wells in the company's history.
So I'm just curious as to how much running room over your portfolio backlog do you think you have that could be repeatable to that extent or if these are somewhat isolated? And then I have a quick follow-up please.
When you think about what were doing on Fayetteville we are just looking in more detail in smaller and smaller areas and so theres three major things that are going on and theyre some overlap and some dont overlap.
First one is were just the bottlenecking the very things at the surface and thats allowed us to see higher rates and part of the field where you had little bit higher pressures.
Second thing were doing is what we call extended shut in.
Again some of the field has more water than other parts of the field.
Extended shut in has decreased that water and then the third thing is just were finding some areas that has got some good geology that either we hadnt tested before or we hadnt tested correctly before as well with procedure doing.
The end result to that is the three areas dont quite overlap.
There are some that do overlap.
But if you had to guess over 600 000 acres that were drilling on somewhere between 80 and 120 150 000 has a potential for one or all of those things to happen.
Thats really helpful Steve an unrelated question you mentioned the long-term contracts.
I'm just curious given the position you have we hear a lot of chatter that the level of interest for long-term -- forgive me for this one LNGX contracts it seems to be gathering a little bit of momentum.
I am just curious as to whether you have seen any of that whether you would be prepared to participate and whether you would think about it at this point.
When you think long term contracts last couple of years weve been asked very regularly whats going on and theres a lot of talk and not many contracts and it seems here recently you start to get more different types of groups wanting contracts and they set for fairly short term.
They start building out and trying to figure out what theyre going to do in the near future.
The one we do have a contract with an L&amp;G provider.
So they are out there and theyre starting to make those contracts and I think most what were doing right now is on the power side with some industrials along with the L&amp;G.
Care to give in detail Steve? Thats about all the details were going to go into.
Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Please proceed with your question.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Hi good morning.
I guess you just mentioned on the first question kind of some of the things youre trying Fayetteville to really increase the IP rates there in the initial production.
Was just wondering do you think that youre doing on the completion side that could enhance the economics there.
Youve had a lot of success in the Marcellus by increasing the amount of sand from 350 000 pounds to 500 000 pounds per stage.
So just curious kind of where you sit in Fayetteville today and do you have any changes to any plans to change that? We continue to learn in the Fayetteville and early learnins we had in Fayetteville we apply back to Marcellus and vice versa.
Marcellus sand is up and that it wasnt fast  by not up in the same percentage of Marcellus shale and when I say that I say it in very general terms.
As we think about the Fayetteville and talk all these plays there is lot of differences across the play.
So its well spacing amount of sand exactly where you land it how far your fracs going out.
That varies across all these plays.
I think what were doing for Marcellus or which is a little bit behind at least learning some years we have been in Fayetteville were fine tuning them in various areas is really whats happening.
As we fine tune that were getting better wells along the way.
So it was theres no magic formula.
In general were putting more sand in the ground but thats not either across Marcellus or across Fayetteville just a standard.
There are certain areas of more single work others dont necessarily need it.
Pickering Holt</strong>  Okay thats helpful.
And then just switching gears real quick to the Marcellus.
You all mentioned you going to hit 1.1 Bcf per day for some transport in 2015 and 1.2 in 2016.
So just thinking kind of about this year youre spending about $60 million less capital to kind of hit the same production in 2014.
So just wondering on a go forward basis what amount of capital do you all think you need to spend to kind of keep production flat or maybe modestly increase it in line with your firm transportation capacity? You dont need many wells to keep production flat so its not a lot of capital and I dont know if weve even thought about that on Marcellus frankly.
As you think going forward as Bill said were still trying to add more capacity and well talk about that 2015 and how fast we go and how fast we go in 2016 as we get close to those.
But just think about it youre only drilling 60-70 wells this year and youre growing Marcellus at a very quick pace.
So I dont know how many its 20 wells or 30 wells total.
Its a small number and we keep it flat.
Pickering Holt</strong> Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you good morning.
I wanted to follow-up on Doug Leggates Fayetteville discussion.
If you highlighted seven of the ten best wells youve drilled were done there in a quarter but there are 140 other wells during the quarter.
It seemed like the well performance was not that dissimilar on an average to some of the other quarters weve seen.
When you think about the new procedures and the application to new acreage that you highlighted do you see that as driving improving IP relative to cost going forward throughout the program or is this more an offset to maturity offer?  Well I think the improved performance were getting out of these wells is  the cost to do that is very limited.
I mean were actually putting in shorter tubing lengths which cost less obviously because were not tubing up the whole well.
We rest all of our wells as a matter of frac just now.
So theres not a cost to doing that.
And so I think the major difference will be lateral length that that will be across the entire field and it flexes up and flexes down depending on the unit size.
So in terms of capital efficiency the more of these higher rate wells and as the averages move up our well costs are not moving up materially except as you adjust them for again lateral length and some of the less tested areas we have the opportunity to drill longer laterals.
Thats a much more efficient way to work.
So you actually have the opportunity to bring some additional cost down and when you combine that with our new rigs and the fact that theyre more efficient then our older rigs just as the new generation.
We actually see opportunities to improve margin curve both in the cost side and on the new well performance side.
And I think part of your question was youre not seeing the whole group of already fixed theyre rates higher.
These wells have only been on for a short period of time and its about 15% of total wells we drilled in the last six months or in that where were doing all these things to them.
Were assuming right now internally that its all acceleration except for where we talk about the geology.
But thats not bad.
Youre going back to your cost part of it.
We think on PV 10 basis were adding a little over 10% PV10 by accelerating growth forward.
So internally were seeing full acceleration.
Well be able to you probably in six months whether its in the actual incremental reserve to do with it.
Great thank you and then shifting to the Marcellus is there any update you can give with regards to drilling in the north north-east portion of your Susquehanna County? Yeah we basically went back and re-entered the pilot hole recently.
We drilled a 4981 foot lateral and put 14 frac stages on it.
Were using our higher level sand content which is 500 000-530 000 pounds of [indiscernible] per stage.
Right now were just in flow-back operations but what we see is  what weve seen were encouraged so we are going to complete the 3D study of that area as well probably 100 little bit over 100 square miles and then we will retest this well in a few weeks after it has been able to rest and then we are looking for some additional wells to drill in that area and weve got a few of them planned.
Our next question comes from the lien of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
So Steve you beat the high end of production guidance five quarters in a row and is a main driver of flatter Marcellus production curve.
I dont mind.
Its probably the minus [ph].
The Fayetteville certainly if we look there weve added almost every quarter a little bit of BCFs to our guidance that certainly Marcellus is a shale better than we thought and the wells are better performing.
Got you okay.
And then a second question on the Sand Wash.
Could you talk about just the timing of the results of the five wells youre planning this year and the timing I never mentioned.
Its based on the results.
But in your mind right now whats the timing of a go or not go decision for this play? And then also could you talk about any surface issue? I think were operating maybe in or around some Sage-Grouse nesting areas and if you talk about permitting and any other insights you have on this play? Ill let Jeff share a talk about that.
He is in charge of project.
Go ahead Jeff.
Yeah.
Really the first acreage trans that we picked up was in May of this year and were actively out there now.
We had [ph] drilling [ph] location.
We drilled one well.
We continue to drill through a pre-planned program at least for Verticals as we go through the end of 2014.
Our goals are about the end of the year there are just two drill wells horizontal well and at that point in time get a flow test to see how the overall program looks.
So I would say for looking to our early results we would be reporting on this in the early part of 2015 with information that we could be more definitive about.
With respect to surface issue in particular the Sage-Grouse question which you brought up there is no question and this is an area that you have to work and get the plan and get ahead.
Weve been able to do that just in the first three months.
We dont think that theres going to be a surface restriction on slowing down our current plan program that we have progressed this year in early part of 2015.
I will continue to work on that real hard and we think we can have a very active program up here provided that we see the results of our team.
Yeah as far as the Sage-Grouse go they are there in the area that always is not conducive to Sage-Grouse but certainly part of it and were working with the industry just like everyone is sticks on Sage-Grouse to figure out how to mitigate or somehow allow us to drill and still keep Sage-Grouse in good shape.
So that sum has just [ph] from.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes good morning everyone.
Id like to ask a question dealing bit on them.
One is the upper Fayetteville test.
You guys have mentioned 60 wells or on at a rate of 4 million a day.
If you look back in how they compare to against your historical table thats only exceeded by your last four quarters for the play.
And so I guess does it really look like positive well results? And why dont if you could break down how much if that is lateral link there or completion design and how much of that is perhaps be your resting [ph] or the remainder might be or the other explanation might be that the quality of the formation? One of our chief objectives in drilling this upper Fayetteville test and weve been working on this for some time was the ability to stay in zone in a more brittle zone of this particular part of the formation and we spent a lot of time and a lot of evaluation and lot of testing trying to make that happen and with technology as its advance and our monitoring of these wells as are being drilled continuously weve been able to achieve that.
And by doing that the area where we initiate tracks is a bit more brittle.
The ability to have that kind of a higher quality frac throughout the entire interval has produced the kind of results were seeing and we tracked this on every well.
Certainly we rest and certainly we are using the completions that we believe are fit for this particular type of rock in this particular type of area just like for doing along the others.
They dont vary materially but its more about staying in zone in a particular part of the zone that we are in.
Were trying to really optimise within a fairly narrow window and weve been able to achieve that.
Let me add to that.
If you ask us year and half ago two years ago staying in zone plus or minus 25-30 feet was staying in zone.
Today when we said stay in zone its less than 10 foot and in some case were trying to stay 5 foot and were doing it very successfully to both Fayetteville and Marcellus on 80% of 5000 for lateral.
So weve done the lot and because of that lot of different things get better as you go to as well.
That makes sense.
I guess the natural follow-up of that would be..
Is there similar opportunity to target up 5 or 10 window in the lower Fayetteville? Is there just something that there is a particularly attractive really thin member in the upper Fayetteville that you look after that? It doesnt have to be.
It quite is tight in the upper but were doing it in the lower were doing it in the Marcellus and well talk about it more.
There are some other zones.
Were testing it both for Marcellus and Fayetteville.
Well talk more about it in the future that were doing it.
I got it.
With two large core assets that we have were able to transfer knowledge and learn even faster and then transfer those learnings back and forth between the divisions and please see the results that come from.
Right.
And if I could just speak one more can you -- but these good results youre having now in the Fayetteville in the basis issues temporary though they maybe up in the Marcellus.
Can you compare what your PBI [ph] looks like for some of the recent village Fayetteville wells versus the Marcellus at this point? I just made general comment.
The very best Fayetteville wells certainly match with the better Marcellus but on average with the fracs we see today and not to surprise we see going forward Marcellus has a still little bit better economics.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Please proceed with your question.
I have question on the extended shut-in which I think I have asked variations of before.
As you see these wells flow longer how do you think about that ratio of IP to EUR? Do you get a sense that youre getting the volumes faster so its more economic or you actually following the old tradition of decline curve and then a follow-up.
We have some examples where..
And again we dont have a long period of time with some longer wells.
We have examples of what it looks like.
There are some incremental EUR that youre going to get in addition to just getting the higher rates to begin with but we dont have enough information to say that thats really going to be the answer.
Some wells certainly look like getting some more EUR.
And then on a margin basis we continue to get the benefits on the cost side for the water [ph] not being need in the handle which is costing [ph] $100 000 a well.
Yeah.
And then a quick follow-up.
You talked about sort of advances in direction of drilling.
Can you talk about sort of what state-of-the-art 3D seismic for this Shale placed for you all? I dont know that we have an answer on state-of-the-art 3D seismic.
I can tell you that we are headshot and are going to show some more three components surveys and we have done some more per shares We have done some of shares well but..
I think were like here everyone.
The costs are going down youre putting more geophones on the ground youre hearing more information and were doing there just like everyone has in the 3D.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you folks.
Good morning.
Could you comment on the cost of firm transportation in the Appalachian Basin today and whats expected to do with the balance of this year? And it worked thrice as it didnt make economic sense for Southwestern to secure additional firm transportation.
Well.
Our long-term average transportation is about $0.37 and so thats the range that weve had for the Appalachian Basin.
As we look in the future some of the new projects out there have a fairly high cost and you have seen some as high over a dollar.
Those go all the way back to the Gulf Coast.
You probably won't see us participating in a lot of that because that gas will go right by the Fayetteville and we will just sell gas if we want to do that.
So our cost in general we think going back in the Mid-Atlantic there is some room for some more demand.
That's where the big demand is coming up the next four or five years.
We can get there much cheaper than that.
Today I would say most of what we're looking at is between 40 and maybe as high as $0.65 we are looking at going forward.
As a follow up to that just on the subject of long term contracts within LNG provider as you state what does that tells about your view on the price of natural gas longer term if the company is willing to sell gas under these longer term contracts.
Well I wont go into the terms of the contract but I can assure you that we havent fixed it.
Our next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with DISCERN.
So its a little hard to tell but it looks like the working interest for your gas in the Marcellus sort of jumped up a little bit for the gross gas in the quarter is that fair to say or is that  may I reading the numbers little bit wrong? Yeah it did it did come up just a little bit and it just depends on the mix of wells and where we happen to be producing at the same certainly  by way of example you can look at our acreage evolved Chesapeake and some of that is on wells that are on acreage that we already own and so its by nature a raise it.
Is there a sort of tactical effort to..
Given your firm transportation commitments is there tactical effort to increase the working interest so you can actually get more net gas or that not really a consideration?  Well.
We always try to give much of going news [ph] as we can.
So were always working at that and we -- Marcellus and Fayetteville shale we have ongoing land capital budget every year that we do that with.
So were always trying to get our net up.
I dont know that its necessarily side to firm anything other than that were going to operate it we like as much as we can.
Okay so its just standard operating procedure? Exactly.
Okay.
Second question I have is that there does seem to be very wide swing in the quality of wells youre drilling in the Fayetteville much stronger sort of mid to the second half of the quarter versus the first half it looks like.
If you look at your drilling portfolio for the rest of the year how would you evaluate that in terms of the quality of the completions? Are they going to be more like what we thought early this year or more like what we saw end of last year? Thats dynamic yeah and we certainly have a schedule actually goes until middle of next year but rigs are brought across the field and as a reminder everyone shallow north side of the fields is significantly different production profile than deep southern side of the field.
When you get several of these high rig wells together you will overload the Midstream system and so you have to move a rig out and move to different area and that maybe a medium maybe a little bit less production and swing back in.
So the goal is to produce much gas we can to keep to the Midstream system balance and now I have to put a bunch of money and just moving compressions around chasing wells and go so and so.
Well continue to move that certain quarters.
We may have a little bit less IP because it will appear well though the quarter may have a little higher IP but I think the kinds of number youd seen in the last couple of quarters will go forward for the next three to four quarters I faced.
Great thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question comes from the line of Rehan Rashid with FBR Capital Markets.
Please proceed with our question.
Good morning guys.
On Fayetteville actually couple of assets Marcellus and Haynesville there have been some talk about re-fracs.
Any thoughts on the packability of a [ph] and then I have got one more question.
Yes.
Were trying to evaluate that right now in the fields 10 years old.
With this year weve certainly improved our performance over time and learned quite a bit and so weve got few candidates that were evaluating along with a number of other sort of technical improvements learnings that weve learned from industry or from Marcellus that will apply there and well let you know how those go once we get some results.
As a number how many well bores call it maybe from a year or year and half ago again of 12 which might have benefited as much as all the advancements and completions in RCS and Whit-Mart? I dont know if we got an answer to that one.
Usually I think our re-frac is your wells get to some kind of marginals.
Right? Right.
And we just have not made wells get to marginal rate yet and then it wont be things like the [ph] at surface or doesnt attract on those wells anymore and its just a matter can you do something different with the frac or the other thing to look at going back to our comment about whether end zone or not end zone were going back in all the wells making sure that they were in the right spot of the zone and how we have to do that as well.
But they really have not heard and talked much about it.
So we just have made them many wells.
There are marginal not to talk about re-frac.
So thats kind of were right on that one.
Got it but the mechanical possibility.
Is that right? Yes.
I dont know if you remember.
Few years ago I think we did four or five and there were wells that were very early on.
There were well that were frac with the gel [ph] fracs and in that case we did see about 20% due reserves when we did the re-fracs but again those were very very early wells in the field and didnt pretty so much.
So we dont have a good base there say its going to be good or bad physically you can do it.
Got it.
And switching yours to Marcellus I should know the answer to this but I apologize.
So the constitution gives the access to new Indian markets only and can be tight into something [ph] goes takes it to Canada and coming to this constitution still on time anything to watch for there? Constitution is designed mainly for New England markets.
You could sense some gas in Canada but I think the better price is New England market.
So that was designed for.
Timing-wise it goes back to build comment about being a 1.2 a day in 2016.
Were assuming constitutions of 2016 event not like 2015 and actually on our time weve shown anyone its second half of 2016.
We dont have any information that says thats right or wrong and so we build our plan on.
So really this talk of Williams and Kevin [ph] on the line to figure out if the time is on schedule or not on schedule.
But second half of 16.
Okay.
Thats how we put in our budgets in our plans.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Just one little bit of simple math that be very clear.
Your Fayetteville best 12s were [ph] and so you should have a kind of continued carry-through into the third quarter.
It was my expectation but Steve made a comment that sometimes you have overwhelmed systems and you have to shift rigs.
Does any of that rig shifting have to happen given the..
it looks like the June wells or the best wells? Yes.
Okay.
We are [ph] and had four of those good wells on it.
So yes we did have.
Okay.
Alright.
So I think that load leveling [ph] is a good way to think about it not some bigger performance that was perfect.
And then onto the Niobrara Vertical program objectives as you think about the four wells can you talk about how youre drilling them? Youve described the intervals going from dead [ph] oil from where Shell was the dry gas where private operator was.
Whats the zone kind of..
are you drilling across depths to go from white [ph] gas to oil or what would your objectives be for the vertical program before you drill your first [ph] on the well? Were doing three major things.
Were trying to learn as much as we can about the rocks.
So we do a bunch of coring testing the core logging etc.
So just flat learning.
At the other time we are doing as well.
We will be targeting the middle bench as the main objective is best we can tell the day.
There are some other benches in there.
So we will be testing in various wells different benches.
And then the third thing going back to your window kind of analogy there we do need to figure out what will be the best producing window towards those various benches absolutely.
Part of this is just drawing the cross-section and understanding the gas ratio and the liquids ratio on the quality of the liquids and trying to figure out where the better spots would be.
So all of that will have [ph] four wells and some wells next year.
Yeah we havent thought about next year yet Jeff said that we know full in the year if things were going to work but as we learned how to expect with drill over the next year some more verticals and then starting to do more heavy horizontal part of it as well as it goes and we think ultimately its going to take some more close to 10 wells to really get to find were really understand enough to say go or no go.
So effectively youll have at least 10 wells next year one way or the other.
They will have five this year and then whatever else we need to [ph] Alright.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning everyone.
I was hoping you could provide more color on the brown dents.
It looks like you have lowered capital for the play in 2014.
Can you just discuss what drove your decision to lower the capital spend? As we put out in the early part of the year we decided we would adjust the pace of the capital depending on what we were learning.
We've had some well results really mixed well results early part of the year.
We've just completed a well in -- just recently that produced 600 barrels a day unstimulated.
The name of the well is called the Benson well.
Its peak production was of 660 barrels of oil and 2 million cubic feet of rich gas.
That well we just finished in the quarter and then our plan was to back up and redirect the efforts of the team to our 3D seismic project that would enable us over a 75 square mile area right around where we've been drilling to get a better picture of what we've got tied our wells both successful and unsuccessful to the rock and then proceed later on with further testing.
It made a lot of sense to based on the theories that we are chasing on how to land and where to land these vertical wells to focus on that.
So it's not a real change of plan.
We've just reallocated the capitol back to the company while we do the 3D.
But we're very encouraged by this latest well.
I guess thats part of the thinking of stepping back and figuring out what you have exactly on the level as it fits it within your emerging oil program is this going to be slower pace and then you focus on Sand Wash basin and can you discuss your strategy there.
I think you have to think about the whole exploration strategy and its really not an oil strategy per se so some of that exploration acreage we have is on gas plays just happen to working on some wells right now whether its Sand Wash Eastern Colorado which we are testing right now tuning 3D and ground down and then some acreages we havent talked about its just part of our ongoing program where in any given year we test 3 4 ideas and try to get 10 ideas tested over a five year period of time so in the case of the brown ins we are little bit confused we step back we got back some theories we think with some 3D might help get rid of some of that confusion and so thats whats going on there in the case of the Eastern Colorado we drilled a well and thats probably make or break on that well and we are completing that one right now and then of course Sand Wash is really in the process so its just each one is a different step and different play and their exploration and efforts.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
Sometimes the investment community talks about catalyst and they have talked about near term catalysts and talk about long term catalysts and as they talk about catalysts and they make some kind of comment about how you should invest based on those catalysts.
We dont talk to that way internally here what we talk about is performance number one to make sure you hit your numbers.
And number two whats the future look like and whats the upside that we can bring as you go through.
As you think about this quarter Southwestern has definitely performed and we performed better and our capital efficiency continues to increase.
The Marcellus is showing upside and well performance as we drill to the north towards the New York border its showing upside in the upper Marcellus that we are testing and so we are seeing upside there along with the performance in the Fayetteville shale we continue to set new records in individual wells as we talked about as we learn operationally and geologically and nuances across the entire disposition and then as Bill talked about we are adding new rigs upgrading equipment of rig fleet and thats driving cost down and making wells drill faster and one thing you didnt mention was we drilled our first well less in five years it was the first rig that was done and that wasnt deep part of the field was the best weve ever done before something about six and half days.
There is a new projects we just finished we got the Niobarra you got Eastern Colorado and all other exploration acreages out there that provide upside for us also.
And then finally when we look at our company we really drilled ourselves to thrive on low gas environment the same environment that allows industrial users power generators and each of our households also thrive and we are starting to see the beginning of those benefits from our great assets exceeding that upside of that new demand.
Hopefully you get the point that we are hitting our numbers and we got a lot of upside as I mentioned towards the end of the first quarter conference call I was really looking forward and excited about 2014 nothing has happen in the second quarter to dampen that at all and as excited as I was before so with that thank you for listening today I hope you have a great weekends and that concludes our conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings.
Welcome to the Southwestern Energy Companys Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions.
Afterwards you may feel free to re-queue for additional questions.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Steve Mueller Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
You maybe begin Mr.
Mueller.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thanks all of you for joining us today.
With me today are Bill Way our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Executive VP of Exploration and Business Development; and Michael Hancock our Director of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of yesterdays press release regarding our [first] (ph) quarter results you can find a copy of all of this on our website at swn.com.
Also Id like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors in the Forward-Looking Statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now lets begin.
In one sense the recent announcement of our potential new core area for our company has been very eventful.
In the sense of third quarter results it has been the consistent performance our shareholder expect from our staff and our high quality assets.
Production continue to increase well economics improve as we learn how to best drill and then produced the very stratigraphic objectives and the well inventory increases as we apply what we learned other zones.
Yes gas price is down relative to earlier in the year and yes it will be continue to be challenged next summer and fall but we built that into the -- that volatility into our 2015 -- 2014 plan we built it into the acquisition economics and weve built it in our 2015 plans.
Some interesting persistent counterpoints are beginning to change that gas price balance.
This will be the first winter since 2008 with a total storage less than 3.75 Tcf and indications are that storage could be as much as 5% less or approximately 3.5 Tcf to 3.6 Tcf.
The ongoing worrying -- the ongoing worry is obviously the 12-month average production has grown just over 4.3% but its often forgotten that the demand growth is also kept up or almost kept up at 3.9%.
And new demand from known projects will increase that base over the next five years.
In addition the current demand increase has occurred in a price environment but for the most part as this group switching from utilities using coal to gas and its happened as net imports continue to decrease.
In short as a storage curves indicates this is not 2012 from a gas price scenario and Southwestern Energy is stronger and better company poised to take advantage of the better outlook but also able to deliver top tier results when prices are lower like this -- like we have this quarter.
Before I turn the call over to Craig let me mention that we have little new information regarding our announced acquisition.
But I do want to address one impression.
I have heard and read that Southwestern Energy is making a coal and natural gas with this acquisition.
While we believe gas fundamentals are improving the acquisition is not call on gas it is call on quality.
Quality wins in every price environment.
As I will say about the acquisition from now.
But we have a much more to talk about regarding our quarterly performance.
And I will now turn the teleconference over to Craig for an update on our third quarter financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
As Steve mentioned we had another excellent quarter primarily driven by record production volumes.
Excluding the certain non-cash items we reported net income of $178 million or $0.50 per diluted share for the third quarter compared to $180 million or $0.51 per diluted share last year.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities in the third quarter was $504 million compared to $528 million for the same period last year.
Operating income for our exploration production segment was $189 million compared to $223 million we recorded in the third quarter of 13.
This decrease was primarily due to lower realized natural gas prices and higher operating costs and expenses due to increased activity levels and partially offset by the revenue impact of increased production.
Including hedges we realized an average gas price of $3.43 per Mcf during the third quarter compared to $3.61 per Mcf last year.
Excluding hedges our average realized gas price increase to $3.21 per Mcf from $3.06 per Mcf last year.
Hedging added about $0.22 per Mcf to our realized gas prices in the third quarter compared to adding about $0.55 per Mcf last year.
Our realized average gas price in the Marcellus was $2.73 per Mcf for the quarter.
Our firm sales agreements along with our financial basis hedging activities protect 63% of our Marcellus production for the remainder of 2014 at NYMEX plus $0.12 per Mcf excluding transportation charges.
Currently we also have about 34% of our 2015 Marcellus volumes protected with financial basis hedges and firm sales agreements at a price of NYMEX minus $0.13 per Mcf excluding transportation charges.
We also have 117 Bcf or approximately 59% of our remaining 2014 projected natural gas production hedge to fixed price swaps at an average price of $4.35 per MMBtu.
We also have 240 Bcf of natural gas swaps in 2015 at an average price of 4.40 per MMBtu.
On the cost side our cost structure remains one of the lowest in our industry with all in cash operating costs of approximately $1.29 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 2014.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net expense and taxes.
Least operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.91 per Mcfe in the third quarter compared to $0.87 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 13.
The increase is due to a combination of higher compression costs in the Fayetteville and the continued growth in Marcellus which has higher gathering rates in the Fayetteville.
Our G&amp;A expenses were $0.23 per Mcfe down from $0.24 per Mcfe a year ago.
Taxes other than income taxes were $0.10 per Mcfe compared to $0.09 Mcfe last year and the full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment was $1.09 per Mcfe compared to a $1.07 per Mcfe last year.
Operating income from our midstream services segment rose 30% to $97 million in the third quarter compared to the same quarter in 2013 primarily due to increase in gas volumes gathering which resulted from our increase in E&amp;P production volumes.
Mid-stream EBITDA was $111 million for the third quarter 2014 a company record compared to $99 million in the third quarter of 2013.
At September 30 2014 our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio was 30% down from 35% at the end 2013.
The debt balance includes $139 million borrowed on our revolving credit facility at September 30th and that is down from $171 million borrowed at June 30th and $283 million borrowed at December 31st.
Im very proud of this strong results we had this quarter and Im very excited about what company has coming on the horizon.
Ill now turn it over to Bill Way for an update on our operational results.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
As mentioned earlier we have a great third quarter.
Our operating team impressed once again with strong performance allowing us to again set production records.
In Marcellus Shale had an impressive 47% growth in production and we continue to improve our understanding and build additional confidence in our acreage position.
In the Fayetteville where we're seeing the benefits from implementing the learnings and efficiencies we have identified to-date we translated into record production rates in increasing number of wells with initial rates in excess of $5 million cubic feet of gas a day an increasing numbers of future wells to drill all of which exemplifies the curiosity and innovation that differentiates Southwestern Energy from the pack.
An example of our curiosity and learning during the third quarter is our focus and testing of optimal landing zones increased profit loading and frac spacing.
In both Fayetteville and Marcellus we are experimenting with these and other drilling and completion techniques and early indications appear favorable.
If we can confirm this with further testing analysis it could result in decrease well costs.
On the exploration front we have an exciting portfolio of opportunities in the pipeline and we are making good progress on testing of the projects that weve publicly announced.
Ill walk through the status of some of these projects in a few moments.
Each day I'm impressed with the dedication and focus that our employees bring with a common goal of working together to find new ways to add value.
This team work has been instrumental to the strong results that the company is delivering in 2014.
To begin with the Marcellus Shale our production in the third quarter grew to a record 66 Bcf which as I said is an impressive 47% increase over our volumes produced in third quarter of 2013.
Weve seen continued improvement in our productivity index in the Marcellus up 200% since we entered the play through a combination of optimized lateral replacement stage spacing and profit loading.
In the quarter we completed a well using as much as 835 000 pounds of sand per stage and we expect well results on this soon.
We remain committed to growing our production to match our firm transportation capacity.
And we continue to look for economic opportunities to add additional capacity to our portfolio.
Our strategy of finding the firm capacity and growing production to those levels has helped partially insulate the company from some of the depressed pricing in the region during the summer and shoulder months.
Additionally our basis hedges provide a benefit over -- of over $9 million during the quarter.
We were moving 840 million cubic feet of gas per day in the Marcellus Shale at September 30th and as I said transporting the gas through our firm transportation capacity to market.
Let me pause here in this discussion of flowing to firm capacity and say I know there have been some questions regarding the 30-day average rate of our wells in the Marcellus this quarter.
While our well mix of 14 wells include some testing of new areas we managed the overall Marcellus business on value and not just IP rate.
Our marketing and operations teams work very closely together to optimize the value of gas -- we received for our gas.
And in the current pricing environment we've increased production pulling harder on wells during high demand days of the week and pulling back on wells on the weekends.
Again the flexibility of our firm transport allows us to maximize the value of every Mcf we produced.
By the end of the year we currently have firm transportation out of Pennsylvania under contract which totals more than a billion cubic feet of gas per day and increases to almost 1.2 billion cubic feet of gas per day in 2016.
Our current drilling budget allows us to ramp our production to match this increased firm transportation capacity.
Additionally on the midstream front the range area in Northeast Susquehanna County now has 600 million cubic feet of gas per day of compression capacity and this will be significant -- a significant benefit to us as the productivity of the field continues to improve.
In the most Northern part of our Susquehanna County acreage block that we call North Range weve completed the acquisition of 3D seismic as we continue to derisk the area.
The team is now interpreting the data and will be able utilize the results as we move forward in our development plan in North Range.
Initial well testing results from North Range area in Susquehanna County continue to be encouraging.
We are well underway in extending our gathering system into North Range to gather production from this acreage as well.
In Wyoming County weve now drilled our first horizontal well the Dimmig 2H and we plan to test it in the fourth quarter.
Additional locations are planned in both Sullivan and Wyoming counties as we progress our delineation efforts in that area.
Additionally in the upper Marcellus we drilled three wells during the quarter that are anticipated to be completed during the fourth quarter a fourth well is also expected to be drilled by year end with completion planned into early part of next year.
In the Fayetteville Shale we again had our best quarter in the companys history for production volumes and had our 10th consecutive positive cash flow month.
Weve placed a total of 106 wells online at an average initial production rate of roughly 4.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Two of them are in the top 10 ever drill at over 10 million a day each.
We also had increasing average 60 day rates of 2.5 million cubic feet of gas per day reflecting the better wells drilled in the past quarter.
We are continuing to monitor well results from higher rate wells as we access whether these wells have higher EURs or if they are accelerating production either way the teams continuing to create value for the company.
In the Upper Fayetteville formation the company has placed 15 Upper Fayetteville wells online through the first nine months of 2014 with an average production rate of 3.4 million cubic feet a day.
Three of these wells had an average initial production rate of over 5 million cubic feet of gas per day with the highest IP rate being 6.6 cubic feet of -- million cubic feet of gas per day.
We plan to drill five additional Upper Fayetteville wells in the fourth quarter and complete them in early 2015.
While its early we estimate that the Upper Fayetteville may expand over 130 000 acres or 1000 well locations for future development opportunities.
Regarding a vertical integration we are nearing completion of the upgrading of our drilling rig fleet where we took possession of our fifth rig -- seven rigs during the quarter.
The capability of these new rigs continues to impress as the technological improvements are helping obtain even more efficiencies in the process.
We fully expect through this drilling days of Fayetteville wells by one day allowing us to drill more wells with fewer rigs.
Our gas gathering business was gathering and transporting approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day on September 30th.
We have additional firm transportation capacity to deliver any growth from our acreage in the play and we are positioned very well to supply future long-term demand for our Fayetteville asset.
Moving to exploration we now have drilled three vertical wells in northwest Colorado targeting the Niagara formation and our drilling our first horizontal well.
An additional vertical well is planned for the fourth quarter.
As we mentioned before we anticipated it will take us 8 to 10 wells before being able to determine the long-term commerciality of this play.
As we continue to get more data and make progress in our testing well talk more about well results and what we are finding but we are encouraged so far.
In closing weve had a great third quarter and first nine months of 2014 and we are looking forward to finishing the year even stronger.
The amazing team of people that I have the privilege to work with everyday continues to innovate and find ways to improve performance and capability which gives me great confidence in our road forward.
This is an exciting time for Southwestern Energy and we look forward to sharing even more terrific results on our next call.
This concludes my comments.
So we will now turn the call back over to the operator who will explain the procedures for asking questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment.
Go ahead with your question please.
Im sorry.
The first question today comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you Doug.
Go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning everybody.
I keep getting amused by the different translations.
Anyhow I think this is me.
Two quick ones if I may.
Steve I'm afraid I missed the call last week.
I was traveling unfortunately when your call was on.
But so I wonder if I could just risk a question on the acquisition and then one on the quarter if I may.
On the acquisition you did make clear that your investment grade credit rating is very important to you.
So I don't want to get into specifics obviously but I'm just curious if you could frame for us what that means for you in terms of metrics.
I think you did say the midstream was not high up on the list.
But just for completeness if you could give us a tax basis there and just any color around what you think retaining an investment grade credit rating would mean in terms of potential financing structure.
And then I'll get a follow-up on the quarter please? Okay.
I mentioned kind of what it means and each group thats out there has different criteria they look at.
We on a very simplistic basis and Craig talked about it we look at that debt ratio and talk about 30%.
Historically we like to be in the low-to-mid 30s.
This acquisition will bring us up to something higher than that.
And when we talk more about it well get that -- well show you how were going to get that debt ratio down what it will be and how we get it down.
And thats to be discussed later day.
As far as tax basis on midstream Ill let Craig answer that.
Yeah midstream in general is fairly mature.
Most of that investment has occurred over the past 10 years certainly but really in the last seven.
So the tax basis is not significant.
Well say exactly what it is but its -- we enjoy the benefit of that tax depreciation over the past couple of years.
Okay.
Thank you.
Its basically the capital were producing right now.
Right.
So in the event of any monetization than there will be a fairly hefty tax impact? Is that a good way of thinking about it? It depends on how you monetize but that is correct.
Okay.
My follow-up in the quarter is really more Steve you've obviously continue to have substantial success in the upper Fayetteville.
So routinely you've given us an idea what the economic backlog looks like at range of oil prices.
Just wondering if you could give us an update as to how the upper Fayetteville is changing things in terms of what you see as economic.
Let's assume a stressed gas price call it $3.50 in perpetuity.
I dont know what sensitivity you hear is but any color as to how you see that backlog in the comment of R&amp;D.
That would be great.
Thanks.
And Ill just put upper Fayetteville in perspective with the lower Fayetteville.
They are separated at most by 100 feet.
Its relatively small interval separation.
So cost lateral length all those things are almost identical between the two zones.
The upper Fayetteville is a little bit thinner than the lower Fayetteville.
So with the lower Fayetteville were drawing on 60-acre spacing the upper will be more just over 100-acre spacing.
Thats why Bill made comments about 130 000 acres 1000 wells because it will be a wider spacing.
With that wider spacing EURs IPs will be very very similar to the lower Fayetteville.
So that same distribution I talked about in the past were at $3.50 we had something 2400 or so wells to drill going forward.
You can add probably about 250 or 300 oils offer into that category.
And when we had $4 flat forever thats the 1000 wells that Bill is talking about.
Thats great.
Thanks a lot.
I appreciate it.
Our next question now comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment.
Go ahead with your question please.
Good morning.
When you put out the press announcement on West Virginia acreage acquisition you also stated that Southwestern was considering dispositions of certain non-strategic assets.
Just wondering if you could provide some color on what acreage might be behind this statement? I dont know that were going to make much comments about that now.
Stay tuned and in about three weeks well go in a lot of details on that.
Okay.
And the other question I want to ask was going back to investment grade but maybe a little bit different way.
You did say you didnt want to threaten your investment grade and you didnt want spending to get uncoupled from cash flow.
I was just wondering how will this develop -- affect your development plan for the Colorado Sand Wash if the West Virginia acquisition actually comes through? It's all about economics and it's all about quality.
So any exploration project not just what we do in the Sand Wash Basin if we have a discovery it will be what we do with it and how fast we grow will depend on the quality of that discovery.
If it's the best economics we have in the company a bunch of money is moving in that direction and something else isnt getting drilled.
And if it's in the middle of the pack and it has less to it and if it's on the lower side maybe we don't keep it.
So it really just the economics and as Bill said economics on that won't be known.
At least on Sand Wash won't be known until probably this time next year.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
That was very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt and Company.
Go ahead with your question please.
Pickering Holt and Company</strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt and Company</strong> I was wondering could you provide just a little bit more detail around just the moving pieces that caused the IP30 day rates out of the Marcellus to look a little bit lower? I think itd be lowest kind of since the third quarter of 2013.
So just wondered if you could go through that in a little bit more color please? Bill's kind of addressed it a little bit in his comments.
I'd say kind of did a political dance around on that.
But basically what we've been doing and we've talked about this in the past if we could buy gas someplace else and make more money than producing our gas we would shut wells in.
And specifically to his comments weekends are low demand time.
The weeks are high demand time.
And so what we've been doing is we're not shutting all of our gas in.
We back down on the gas on the weekends when we don't think there's demand.
We get more gas that kicks up during the week.
And on those 14 wells there were three or four of those if it is a 30-day rate hit on weekends.
So it's just simply that.
Pickering Holt and Company</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess you made a comment that in both Fayetteville and Marcellus you're sort of testing optimal landing zones increased proppant loading and tighter frac spacing.
And you also mentioned you expect potentially some reductions in well costs.
So could you talk about I guess one of the key drivers of reducing well costs there just given the fact that you potentially are doing a more enhanced completion than you had previously? Yeah.
It's really about how much sand per foot we can get into the ground and optimizing that amount of sand.
And so if you take a look at the Marcellus wells for example where we are.
Our objective is to test and increase the sand loading on these wells.
If I can get 800 000 pounds of sand into the ground in 17 stages or I can get 800 pounds or 1000 pounds of sand into the ground with fewer stages than that by increasing concentration.
It affects the cost of completion.
We'll test it to make sure that it doesn't impact the overall recovery but you're trading parts.
Either -- I can either have 18 stages or I can have fewer.
In the Fayetteville it's the same way.
We pay to pump based off stage count and the more sand we can pump into each stage improves the quality of the frac and lowers the cost overall of the well.
We're doing some other things on well cost as we've talked before.
We rest every well in the Fayetteville that we have after we drill it and complete it.
The result of that is that there's less flow back water to no flow back water that comes back.
That really impacts us to the tune of about $100 000 a well because we're not moving water around from place to place.
If we can -- where we can drill longer laterals as units allow or we combine units together to do cross-unit wells we're at the well site one time drilling a longer lateral and enabling us to optimize cost there as well.
On pad drilling when we go to a pad we drill out the initial acreage capture well.
But then when we come back to a pad we work very hard to try to only go back one time and drill all the remaining wells rather than making multiple trips.
Our new rigs certainly are able to drill faster.
They're also able to move faster.
They're more agile both on the road and on the pad site.
If we can crack the code of single trip drilling you have additional cost opportunities that come in both areas.
And we're working on that as we speak.
As you can see we've got a lot of different things that we're doing.
Let me just make two kind of general comments.
I know the industry has gone to tighter spacing and you even said in your question tighter spacing.
We have certainly tried and are continuing to try some very very close spacing 80 90 type frac intervals in some of our wells.
But what we're seeing if we can put a lot of sand away we actually do less fracs less stages.
So that's part of that savings.
And then the other thing and it should be obvious from Bill's comment we're trying just a lot of things and continue to try a lot of things.
As we do those some cost more some cost less but we think the end result is less cost.
Pickering Holt and Company</strong>  Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Go ahead with your question please.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
One thing in the Fayetteville as you guys hit these higher IP rates can you talk a little bit about how you're optimizing surface infrastructure for those kinds of changes? I would guess you had a standard well design and is that starting to fluctuate a little bit to allow for greater IPs out of the gates and is that changing any of the capital burden?  We've modified facilities into two areas primarily.
First being how we run chasing in the design of that tubing in the well.
At these higher rates taking tubing down below all the safety equipment and stopping there allows the well to have less restriction to flow to the surface.
One of the things that happens in any kind of very highly efficient business is you tend to go down a path where everything looks the same.
You are buying multiples of the same kind of meter run and separator and all that.
What we figured out is that in some of the areas we really do have a need for some larger equipment.
So where a two inch meter run might have been standard now a three or four inch meter run might be there.
So we're optimizing all of the midstream gathering facility standard equipment.
In addition then we look at optimizing flow lines into the main gathering system.
And what we're talking about here is well connection flow lines.
The main trunk lines of the field are already invested and so we look at the economics on an integrated basis to determine sort of the optimal pipeline sizes and others facilities.
So it's kind of through the -- from the well below all the way through to the compression point.
We also are working on some new processes or work plans around getting wells back on line sooner which brings in some well side compression gets those wells unloaded and on line faster.
So it's kind of an overall logistics and optimization effort and it has a number of components.
I appreciate that.
Maybe switching over to the new ventures just for a second.
You in the past had mentioned doing a vertical test in the DJ Basin that was going to be pretty impactful on a go or no-go decision for developing that asset going forward.
I didn't see any comment in the release on that this time.
Any color you guys can provide us on that?  Let me just say that we drilled that well in the second quarter.
We have fracked or tested what we call the Atoka interval and we're getting ready to test the Marmaton which is shallower intervals.
And when we get that all tested we will talk about it.
But just haven't got all our testing done yet.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Any early indications that's helpful or still we just don't know until we get all final detail? Atoka is a fairly tight zone and it's a fairly thick zone.
We tested a couple of intervals in it and it performed like we thought it was going to perform.
That's pretty low perm.
And then the Marmaton is completely different kind of interval.
It is higher cost and higher permeability.
It's not conventional but its more conventional than it is unconventional and certainly its characteristics.
So Atoka tested like we thought it was going to test.
Marmaton's we're about to test and they're completely different.
You can't add or subtract anything.
You just have to test them and then come to a conclusion.
Great.
I appreciate the color guys.
Thank you so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with DISCERN Investment Analytics.
Go ahead with your question please.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
You had really tremendous success in a number of wells in the Fayetteville scattered over a pretty broad part of the play.
Can you talk about how predictable those really strong wells are or are they a little bit unpredictable in terms of when -- obviously you tweak a lot of things but can you predict when those tweaks are going to generate those really good wells? And then in that context what proportion of your inventory do you think has the opportunity to be able to get that really strong result category?  In the Fayetteville Shale it really is a coming of that most unconventionals.
You can get a sense of what's going to happen but trying to predict whether it's 10 million a day well 12 million a day well or an 8 million a day well is difficult but you can tell it should be in that range.
And so there is some variability but you can certainly start figuring out the size and your real question was how many of those do we have.
As we said each area is little bit different and we are trying different things and so shallow its not quite the same as it is in the deeper part of it.
But we think about 20% of our 600 000 acres has a potential for some kind of enhancement.
And when I say some kind of enhancement some of that might be reserved but certainly all of it will have some kind of acceleration component to it to the economics.
And then 20% of the acreage would be -- would that be 20% of the remaining locations or a greater percentage or smaller? We probably wont add any locations if thats what you are asking or add very few locations.
The locations we have now are better.
Okay.
Okay.
So 20% of the remaining locations could be of that extra strong category.
Should have something -- some kind of enhancement to it.
Great.
Okay.
And then my sort of the third question is the exit rate of the Fayetteville seemed to be down in the quarter.
Was there any commentary around that? Is that significant at all or is it just sort of the day-to-day variability? I think that was just the way it bounces around.
Yeah.
Its just really well mix and timing of completing fracs.
There is nothing there.
If you work on there and you can almost tell when we put a big pad on and not put a big pad on our production curve bounces up little bit and it goes down literally.
We see bounce back up here.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Go ahead with your question please.
Good morning.
Quick question on the final EIS for Constitution pipeline.
Any thoughts on that and what you think the next milestones for getting that truly constructed are? I dont know that we have any thoughts on that too much.
We follow just like everyone else does.
The big thing that will happen after we get some approvals here supposed to be happening right now is get approvals from New York State.
I want to get approvals from the New York state.
Unless there is some kind of misestimate on water crossing or road crossings its a relatively short process.
We know that process is nine month type build.
But just making sure you get all the permits and predicting when and how you are going to get all those permits is an issue.
And a quick follow-up what's your interest in joint ventures in general? It looks like you could potentially be having a partner in this new acquisition in West Virginia.
Is that something you look forward to is that something you prefer not to do would you consider it for other assets? Yeah.
As long as they are quality partners and certainly in West Virginia that partner brings a lot to the table both technically and financially as all the quality partners.
We dont have any partners at all.
And especially on the exploration side as weve said in the past that in New Brunswick that we probably will get a partner at some point of time because its too big of a project for us.
So if partners are just another one of those things you use and work with you on there and as long as you make sure youve got high quality no problems at all.
Okay.
And if that partner in West Virginia offer their interest in that acreage would you be tempted? I dont want to address that right now.
Well just have to wait and see if we would be tempted or not if that ever happens.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice &amp; Company.
Go ahead with your question please.
Good morning Steve and to the rest of your team as well.
Picking up on that point of Bobs I think I recognized the good reason you have to be reticent about the acreage.
But given that youve analyze this last week talking about that Wetzel County Utica well coming on line and you presumably your working interest partner is looking at the same what proportions you are.
Im wondering if there is anything you feel you could bank on that? There is activity going on in drilling and completion and all kinds of wall activity going on that acreage right now.
We dont own the acreage so we cant talk about it frankly.
Its just one of those things.
Once we go further down the road we actually own it wed be happy to talk about a lot of things on that acreage.
That makes sense Steve.
I just thought I will probably give a shot.
Could we go back up to the -- if we can go back up to the Northeast Marcellus the two things Id like to ask about that Wyoming well and what you are seeing on that north range acreage first.
On the Wyoming well I know you are still testing but can you talk about maybe what youve seen as far as the pressures youve encountered and the drawdown if you perceive that far on your testing and how that is fitting versus your expectations? I cant address both of them at the same time.
Right now we dont want to talk about it and whether its farther north range and in the case of far north range we are just in the early stages of getting production back soon and there is nothing to talk about.
In the case of Wyoming County there is obviously a lot of other competitors around us and there is some advantages to keep all information quiet well.
We will see.
I guess that makes me owe for two so I call maybe good questions but good questions but bad timing maybe.
Ask in a few months and I will answer them all.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with J.P.
Morgan.
Go ahead with your question please.
Thank you.
Hi everybody.
Hey Joe.
Good morning Joe.
Hey Bill could you -- I know you covered this in some of your answers but could you go to both the Fayetteville and the Marcellus and talk about the standard completion designs you are using now and then what have you changed that you are seeing encouragement on early on? And also could you address these changes you are making -- how do you think they compare in an oil reservoir versus the gas reservoir? In both areas what we are focused on are kind of three things.
One optimizing where we are landing in interval and right now in both areas we think weve found a place in the particular interval where you get the best fracture initiation to begin that frac.
The second thing we are looking at is spending a lot of time on this profit volume.
And so in Marcellus for example weve gone in the past probably 18 months or so from 250 000 to 300 000 pounds of sand per stage up to as I said before we are testing as high as 800 000 pounds of sands per stage and trying to determine.
We believe that the more sand we can get per stage into -- around the well bore the better quality for that we get.
We are trying to find really the end numbers on that so that we can optimize it.
And then looking as we said before about into the drill stage spacing and so that range so far has grown as I said early on it was 250.
I think this year we sort of standardized around 350 to 500 and now we are going from 700 on up to 850.
In the Fayetteville we are trying to do the same thing except the numbers are a bit different obviously.
We were at about 65 000 pounds a stage before and we are going up to about 100 000 pounds.
Weve got three tests going on in that right now.
We dont have any specific early results yet that where we want to land.
As I also mentioned as part of this whole completion there is flowback.
And in both areas we rest these wells to try to keep the water in the ground.
In some parts of the Fayetteville especially the deeper areas we do get a bit more gas back then in -- otherwise the rest of the acreage is pretty much -- in the shallower areas its pretty much just the water doesnt come back so we save on operating cost.
We will continue to share that knowledge back and forth between the assets and try to use this what is now 4 500 or 4 300 well database to the instruct us as well and to just see exactly where that goes.
Obviously we have no real production in the oil side but I know from our understanding of the industry higher sand loading in some of the oil reservoirs are including well reserves in that space as well.
And well Bill was talking we quickly looked up -- couple of us quickly looked up what the averages for this year.
For the third quarter in the Fayetteville per well and again our stages havent changed much over the last couple of years think about 115 000 barrels of water about 4.2 million pounds of sand.
When you compare that to the Marcellus its a 150 000 barrels so not much difference on a barrel side but about 8.5 million pound of sand.
So we are putting significantly more sand in the Marcellus.
So that -- and that just goes back to Bills comments whether its the liquid in there or the rock itself you have to design the fracs for that rock.
Okay.
Thats right.
Helpful.
And then as a follow-up just moving to the Marcellus and production in FT I am just curious what can you do to increase production beyond FT besides making a big acquisition in different area.
I am specifically asking about the Northeast.
What can you do to kind of enable Southwestern to increase production even more than the 1.2 Bcf per day of FT you got lined up? I think the answer at least for the last couple of years is you want to stay within your FT.
And so we said several times between now and the end of the year you will see and hear us commit to some other FT thats out there.
And as we do that you will see how that ramps up and whether its this year next year or beyond and how that works in the overall picture.
But its really getting more FT up there at least for the next two years.
I think by time you get to 2017 certainly by 2018 that becomes a less of an issue.
So other than that from our perspective anyway we are just going to follow FT.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Go ahead with your question please.
Thank you.
And good morning folks.
Regarding the 1000 Upper Fayetteville Shale locations how many of these locations meet the companys economic hurdle at say sub $4 gas maybe $3.50 NYMEX.
Yes.
Those are same before.
Its probably in the 250 to 300 range maybe a little bit more than thats range.
And then at $4 flat thats all 10 000 wells.
Thats what we usually talk about.
Got it.
And as follow-up regarding the recent acquisition and your review of the assets and operations can you sketch for us where maybe efficiency or effectiveness gains can quickly be achieved.
Maybe put differently what are the easy levers to pull to drive better returns at the field level than what maybe the prior operator achieved? We certainly have some ideas but until we get out there and actually get on the ground they are just ideas.
I think the key is we are not going to start out of the box fast and thats why we talked about the fact we start ramping up the five rigs and then work it up to 11 rigs over 2.5 3 year period of time.
We dont know exactly what we can do.
As I said we have the ideas but what we are concentrating on today is doing all the due diligence towards closing and getting answers from the partner on pref right.
So thats a question probably to ask towards the end of the first quarter.
Good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Go ahead with your question please.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
This may have been asked earlier.
Apologies.
But can you just talk about how youre thinking about capital commitments to exploration A? And then B when you think about non-core opportunities is there value in any of the historically exploratory areas or are you kind of waiting to create value there? Yes.
Start with exploration in general we think thats important to do and we will today and continue in the future doing explorations.
Now certainly with the acquisition we may slow down a little it from the pace weve been in the last year or two years and invest little bit less in 2015 and 16 maybe 17 but we will do exploration.
Then the question of how that fits in and what you do with the explorations has to do with the risk on the exploration project early on and then what you find later on.
And if its high risk with significant upfront capital commitments going back to earlier discussion we may bring partners in.
If we have a discovery and that discovery -- depending on the economies of discovery we will slot it in as we need to slot it in.
And in some cases that may mean bringing a partner and to help us on that part too.
So its going to depend on the project the kind of projects we have and whatever we discover but we will continue to do exploration.
Great thanks.
And then as a follow-up have you had or engaged any of the potential LNG consumers regarding their interest either in upstream positions in areas like the Fayetteville or the Marcellus? We have talked to a lot of different groups.
Some of them here have or want to have LNG positions others are our utilities and others are end-users and still others are some kind of industrial.
And there is all kinds of different wants and demands and timings on those things but we have taught to them we know generally what the market is.
I dont know if there is something else to your question.
More in the context of opportunities beyond funding for the acquisition with just debt and equity really trying to identify what the asset sale potential and whether thats an avenue for you? We will talk more of that in the future but certainly anything that we have if we can get the right value for it we are going back to the partner questions or anything else.
We are willing to look at it and talk about it with whoever is out there.
Its just -- thats something to catch or capture as it comes out.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Biju Perincheril with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Go ahead with your question please.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Steve some question on your Fayetteville firm transports can you give us some idea of the sales contracts you have associated with those firm transports? What the duration of those contracts are? Kind of put in general perspective Fayetteville Shale has been producing this is the 10th year anniversary on it.
So we have a couple different agreements for transportation one with the Kinder Morgan and one with Boardwalk.
They start expiring in probably 3.5 4 years and the first one would be Boardwalk these are 10 year terms and the next the Kinder Morgan would be another 1 year 1.5 year past that.
Actual commitment is just over 2 Bcf a day its about where were at right now.
And its I think $0.26 or $0.27 is what the transportation fee is average.
Perfect great.
When you said 3.5 Those two pipelines together add up to over 4 Bcf of total takeaway and that was going back to the comments earlier that we had plenty takeaway.
The industry has taken just a small percentage of that and so there is plenty to takeaway if we want to go fast and save them.
Got it.
And then the 3.5 to 4 years thats the FT itself or is that sales contracts under those FTs? Were at the FT.
Okay.
Got it.
And then another question was on the midstream.
If you work to monetize it hypothetically speaking of course did you do already breakdown -- give a segment breakdown in your reporting? So would there be any impact to the reported cost structure for the upstream business? We in our upstream side of that we count the gathering fee and our LOE.
So when you look at our $0.91 LOE there is roughly $0.60 of that thats gathering.
All right.
That is being paid to I would imagine in the Fayetteville Southwestern midstream.
Whoever is gathering the gas for us is going to pay that way yes.
Right.
So if you were to separate the midstream business there would not be an impact on the upstream cost structure as it is reported today.
Is that correct? On the pure upstream cost structure no.
On the actual reserve life yes.
Can you give us a little more why on the actual reserve life? Well when you are on the -- for instance I want to run whether I keep the well producing or not as long as within my company Im going to back out that gathering fee when they do that calculation.
If its not my company then its actually going the money out the door and the reserve life gets cut off earlier.
So yes we accounted for it but on any well its marginal you dont -- youre going to have to back that back out again.
Okay.
Anyway to quantify what that would be to if you were to look at your (indiscernible)? Why are these questions when and if do some of the midstream? In a few weeks well tell you what were going to do financing wise.
And if midstream is part of that you can ask all the questions you want.
Thats fair.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Go ahead with your question please.
Good morning Steve.
And just about an hour or so.
One quick question on fourth quarter guidance do you have any updates or thoughts on volumes for the quarter? No.
We didnt bother to change that any of the -- as Bill said weve got the new capacity coming on in the Marcellus so that production will continue to go up and Fayetteville's performing well.
So if I had to guess were on the high side of that number but for the couple of months we just didnt bother with it.
And then just couple units that here realized price in the Fayetteville and I think you said that youre expecting the cut a day from your drilling days in the Fayetteville.
Youve been 6.8 year-to-date.
So you would be about 5.8 for next year.
Is that only on the new rigs? Thats really on the new rigs but it will have a five on it probably.
Okay.
Cool.
And then realized price just in the quarter for Fayetteville.
You said the Marcellus was 273 I believe.
Right.
The Fayetteville is 351.
351.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Go ahead with your question please.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Really quickly remind me are you guys still running eight rigs in the horizontal rigs in the Fayetteville? And if you did get you well drill time down or your rig did down by one? Is the plan still to operate within cash flows thats reducing the number of rigs in that area? We are still running eight and the rest of the questions come 2015 budget and well talk about that in couple of months.
I hate to say this all the time but unfortunately this quarter is at the wrong time and needs to be about three or four weeks from now.
Fair enough guys.
Ill leave it at that.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
I ended up my comment earlier about talking about not being a call on gas but being a call on quality.
Certainly this quarter again shows the quality of our assets and what were going to able to do with those assets.
And its not about the growth.
Its not about size.
But its about understanding and hopefully -- and I know a lot of the questions were about understanding understanding what were doing differently and were learning and what we want to see differently.
That brings me kind of to who we are and what we do.
We have three main strategies.
The first one is develop our current assets better than anyone else can.
The second one is learn quickly and then apply that learning rapidly.
So we dont just create learning at a linear pace but we create at an exponential pace.
And then the third one is to remain positive and how we do our work and how we engage the communities and that has do if we remain positive and what we do as lot of (indiscernible) emissions.
And then certainly how we work with regulators and the various communities we are working.
When you think about that each one of those strategies has something that goes up and beyond.
And we call that value plus and thats what we try to deliver.
And whether its a new acquisition or it is exploration or its our whole core assets that have all that strength that has in the pad thats what well do.
As Ive said many ways in the past our success is not based on growth rates its not size.
But its that curiosity that leads to innovation and coupled with the disciplined approach to delivering above average economics.
The outcome and I want to emphasize that the outcome of doing that everyday is the improvement the quality the growth and the other things that go with it and youve seen that what weve done this quarter.
Our pledge to you is that well continue to learn.
Well continue to be curious and well continue to be disciplined.
And if we do that well have many more quarters just like today.
Thank you for listening today.
Have a great weekend and that concludes our teleconference.
Thank you Mr.
Mueller.
Yes this does conclude our teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Companys Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions.
Afterwards you may feel free to re-queue for additional questions.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
Thank you you maybe begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thanks all of you for joining us today.
With me today are Bill Way our President and Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Executive VP of Exploration and Business Development; and Michael Hancock our Director of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of this morning's press release regarding Southwestern Energy's 2014 results and revised 2015 guidance you can find a copy of all of this on our website at swn.com.
Also Id like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors in the Forward-Looking Statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe these expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
What a different a year makes last year at this time the NYMEX price for natural gas is approaching $5 per Mcf in a West Texas intermediate was trading around $100 a barrel.
As an industry we're talking about ever increasing capital budget how fast the rig count we're growing in oil basins and how fast rig count oil basins.
Today the talk is about much lower oil and natural gas prices significantly reduced budgets and how low service cost might grow to provide some short term relief.
Southwestern Energy is not immune to commodity price volatility and we've adjusted our 2015 guidance but our talk is not changed.
Our track record will pass several years and our record results in 2014 again provide conclusive evidence that we can excel in volatile environment like today.
We do talk about cost and we'll certainly benefit from any short term decreases by the service industry but we continue to look for long term cost reductions and better well results that deliver economic benefit today and for many years from now when we drill those last wells on our assets.
Our Fayetteville shale Northeast Pennsylvania Marcellus and the new acquisition of West Virginia and Southwest Pennsylvania are uniquely positioned to supply that new and growing demand from a Gulf Coast of Florida and any other location in Eastern half United States.
When we combine these best in class assets with our best in class operational experience the company has created that wins in low price environments and excel those product price increases.
You want to hear us talking today about drilling wells and not completing for time to time when we think commodity prices will increase.
We will do what we've always done in pricing environment that is simply drill economic wells and meet our economic hurdle delivering $1.30 discount at 10% for every $1 invested.
We know that if we consistently do that every day we will deliver the results and we'll set more near term records and create sustainable long term returns for our shareholders.
Our assets and team have already proved the flexibility required to thrive in these low price environments and these look no farther than 2012 when even though the industry experienced low natural gas prices than they've seen in almost a decade Southwestern has near record EBITDA.
As we look to the future additional high quality acquisitions over the past 12 months and a unique vertical integration will help us response quickly when commodity prices inevitably increase.
A future when the rest of the industry is battling over mothball equipment and complaining about write in cost.
Let me now turn the call over to Bill Way and he will talk about our operational results and some of those records.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
As mentioned earlier we had an outstanding year in 2014.
At the end of each year I'd like to pause and reflect on what a highly talented of 2750 people were able to achieve throughout the year and as I reflect back in 2014 the list of accomplishment is long and I'm very proud of the hard work and commitment of all of our employee teams across the company that came together and delivered our strong results.
I continue to be impressed with the dedication of our team members and their ability to create value plus in everything we do.
I'll start by sharing some of impressive highlights the overall company achieved throughout the year.
In 2014 we set a new record for production of 768 billion cubic feet equivalent which is up 17% compared to 2013.
We acquired 443 000 net acres 413 000 of which closed in December where we estimate we added over 5 000 drilling locations and potentially over 45 trillion cubic feet equivalent of net recoverable resources to our already impressive portfolio.
We ended the year with a new records for proved reserves with over 10.7 trillion cubic feet equivalent a 54% increase over last years reserves.
Our Northeast Appalachia area achieved refining and development cost of $0.48 per Mcf even better than the impressive $0.68 per Mcf realized in 2013.
Fayetteville Shale generated the most cash flow in its history and was able to return over $300 million back to the company to invest in other areas of the portfolio.
In its 10<sup>th</sup> year of development the Fayetteville Shale reached 4 trillion cubic feet accumulative gas production and also delivered 24 of its past 30 wells since inception of the play based on average initial production rate.
Our midstream services segment was able again to produce its highest EBITDA in its history while building for the future by expanding our Northeast Appalachia firm transportation portfolio to 1.4 billion cubic feet of gas per day allowing E&amp;P asset to continue its impressive growth aspirations.
As you can see 2014 was a year of great accomplishments and there are many more.
Looking forward expect more from us as weve got off to a great start.
As we enter 2015 our industry is experiencing reductions in commodity prices as Steve mentioned.
As is customary practice for us here at SWN maintaining our financial discipline and investing its core to creating value plus for our shareholders.
As such we have reduced our planned 2015 capital investments announced in December by $600 million to approximately $2 billion while continuing to drill our best wells at the lowest cost.
Even with this reduced capital program we are targeting substantial production growth of 23% for the year.
Weve demonstrated in the past that we can deliver industry leading returns in this least price environments and that is exactly what we will do in the year ahead.
Id like to discuss each of the operating areas in a bit more detail and Ill begin with Northeast Appalachia.
Our production in 2014 grew to 254 million cubic feet which was 69% increase over 2013 volumes.
We ended the year with gross operating production of over 1 billion cubic feet of gas per day compared to approximately 700 million cubic feet of gas per day at the end of 2013.
Total prove net reserves in Northeast Appalachia grew by 63% to almost 3.2 trillion cubic feet of gas compared to just less than 2 trillion cubic feet of gas at the end of 2013.
Well performance continues to demonstrate the high quality of our acreage position.
As a reflection of this high quality the average growth reserves per well for our producing locations increased to 9.8 billion cubic feet in 2014 while the average growth reserves for well of our undeveloped locations grew to 9.6 billion cubic feet.
This compares to 2013 average reserves 8.4 billion and 6.9 billion cubic feet per well for producing in undeveloped locations respectively.
As we progress on the development of this core asset we continue to drive down cost.
In 2014 our average completed well cost for our operated wells was $6.1 million which is down from the $7 million average in 2013.
Weve made the additional progress in our testing of steering targets and profit loading and weve completed 18 wells with over 2500 pounds of sand.
These wells got initial productivity increase of 50% versus prior wells.
Our early test indicate that we can achieve productivity gains by pumping more profit per stage over 1 million pound and optimizing stage spacing to approximately 500 feet on average which allows us to place more profit and reduce cost.
Further to upcoming year we will advance these efforts and hope to decrease well cost even further with additional testing.
In 2014 we made great strides in the development of our new Susquehanna County acreage.
This development including drilling 61 new wells in the county during 2014 two of which were right near the New York boarder both of these wells display strong results and are very encouraging for the northern portion of this acreage which includes the 47 000 net acres from WTX acquisition which Jeff will speak you in a few minutes.
We are developing the north part of our Susquehanna acreage further in 2015 and we expect per sales later in the year.
In addition to the success we are having in lower Marcellus weve also advanced our upper Marcellus testing in 2014 and early this year.
We placed four upper Marcellus wells on production and the results are encouraging as the initial production rates have averaged over 6 million cubic feet per day of gas per well.
Two of the wells were located above and in between lower Marcellus wells with several years of production history.
Interference and pressure data indicates little connectivity or interference with the lower Marcellus wells.
And this indicates that we are accessing new reserves in the upper Marcellus that would not have otherwise been produced.
We also continue our delineation efforts in other areas of our Northeast Appalachia acreage and it achieved promising results.
We drilled a well in Wyoming County where completed and tested only a portion of the 5 600 foot lateral.
The well flow tested 7.5 million cubic feet of gas per day with a flowing tubing pressure of the 1 000 PSI.
Another example is in Tioga County where we drilled and tested our first well in late 2014.
We completed the portion of the lateral to determine flow characteristics within the Marcellus area.
During the short term test we produced the rate as high as 8.2 million cubic feet per day from the completed portion of this lateral.
Our plans are to continue delineating our Tioga acreage during 2015 while the gathering system is constructed.
Obtaining firm transportation capacity at economic rates is essential to the differentiating success we have been able to realize in Northeast Eastern Pennsylvania.
In 2014 our team was able to expand our firm transportation portfolio to 1.4 billion cubic feet per day which gives us the capacity we need to continue our strong growth in that area over the next few years.
In 2014 we realized over $200 million in additional revenue as a result of our firm transportation and sales portfolio compared to selling directly into local production zone industries.
In addition to the progress made with our firm transport portfolio the team also was able to analyze an agreement that provides the additional gathering capabilities needed to further develop our prolific Susquehanna County acreage.
For 2015 we are expecting another record year in this asset were planning to run three rigs for most of the year and invest approximately $700 million as we target delivering 356 billion to 361 billion cubic feet of production a 41% increase over 2014 volumes assuming the midpoint.
We plan to drill a total of approximately 90 wells in Northeast Pennsylvania in 2015 and the breakout of that activity by County includes 12 wells in Bradford County 69 wells in Susquehanna County and 4 wells in the Lycoming County area along with five in Wyoming Sullivan and Tioga areas.
Our plans are effective in 2015 with the gross operated production rate of over 1.3 billion cubic feet per day which will set us up nicely for a strong 2016 and beyond as well.
In the Fayetteville shale we had our strongest production year in our 10 year history we placed 454 operated horizontal wells on production during 2014 and produced 494 billion cubic feet of gas net to the company.
As I mentioned earlier the Fayetteville shale generated over $300 million of free cash flow and the asset will generate free cash flow again in 2015 to help the development plans for other projects in the company.
The average initial production rates for the 454 wells we put online in 2014 was roughly 4.4 million cubic feet of gas per day compared to average initial production rates of 4 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2013.
As I mentioned earlier 24 of the top 30 wells based on initial production rates were drilled in 2014.
With the decade of development behind us we continue to leverage our learning and find new ways to deliver even better results for the next decade of development.
We also continue to progress our upper Fayetteville evaluation program in 2014 with the drilling of 17 wells in the core area of our AOI.
Notable performance has been seen in three of our oil barrel leased wells where initial production rates average 5.9 million cubic feet a day for the three wells.
Our vertical integration in Fayetteville which includes drilling rigs sand flack two frac spreads and other field services once again created exception value throughout the year.
An average benefit of over $450 000 per well was realized on our wells from the use of vertical integration in the Fayetteville shale in 2014 giving us the lowest gross well cost in the area.
We were also able to build and deliver 7 new rigs into the fleet which will bring increased efficiency to drilling operations for years to come.
We moved two of these new rigs to operations in the Northeast already.
As of December 31 our gas gathering business in the Fayetteville was gathering and transporting approximately 2.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day through over 2000 miles of pipe.
This business generated over $360 million in EBITDA in 2014.
In the Fayetteville shale we plan to invest approximately $560 million in 2015 as we drill between 225 and 235 gross wells and delivered production of 448 billion to 453 billion cubic feet.
The Fayetteville shale remains a key component of the portfolio and its resource size and closed proximity to growing long term demand along the Gulf Coast.
In Southwest Appalachia in the previously announced acquisition we closed the transaction to acquire 413 000 net acres in West Virginia and Southwest Pennsylvania in December and we hit the ground running.
We're ahead of our operational plan and we've recently received good news from the state of West Virginia that they passed the bipartisan bill allowing drilling permits to be transfer between operators avoiding re-permitting of the planned wells.
This action has enabled West Virginia operations to get off to a strong start and we're excited to bring investment to the state and to continue to work with a very supportive government.
As the permit transfer issue was being resolved our initial activity was focused in Washington County Pennsylvania.
We completed drilling operations on our first well the Roberts Shorts 5H which included an approximately 8100 and 50 foot horizontal lateral.
The lateral portion of the well was drilled in less than 3 days.
We plan to complete the well in the first quarter; we've also recently completed two additional wells in the county which will return to sell later this quarter.
We are leveraging our experience in the Marcellus in Northeast Pennsylvania into our Southwest Appalachia operations in both our drilling and completion designs.
As in which we expect to see continued improvement our reduced drilling times improved lateral placement and more effective completions.
With the permit transfer issue now mitigated we have brought an additional rig into the area and we are rigging up as we speak to drill our first well in Ohio County West Virginia.
Our 2015 plan in Southwest Appalachia includes resting approximately $520 million and participating in 50 to 55 wells almost exclusively in the Marcellus.
We plan to drill approximately five wells in Washington County Pennsylvania and four wells in Bard County 15 wells in Ohio County 18 wells in Marshall County and 9 wells in Westwood County West Virginia.
Additionally weve initiated an aggressive work over program on existing wells in the area to help optimize production.
In closing we had a record setting 2014 and we are preparing to continue with that momentum in 2015 where we will once again keep our focus on delivering industry leading shareholder value.
With the strength of our legacy assets and integration of our new Southwest Appalachia area the future is extremely bright here at Southwestern Energy.
We look forward to discussing more outstanding results at the end of the first quarter with you.
This concludes my comments and Ill turn call over now to Jeff Sherrick for an update on business development and exploration activities.
Thanks Bill.
2014 was an incredibly busy year for us on the business development front investing approximately $5.8 billion in total.
We were involved in eight separate transactions that in the aggregate added approximately 400 million cubic foot equivalent per day of net production and 900 000 net acres into the portfolio for future development.
Ill quickly recap the major transactions.
Earlier in the year we acquired 380 000 net acres in 3 trillion in the [indiscernible] basin in Western Colorado.
We keep up for testing of that acreage in second half of the year by drilling four vertical wells and one horizontal well.
The well through 692-811 which we reported on initial production rate of approximately 408 barrels of oil per day 448 000 cubic feet of gas per day and 1193 barrels of completion order from our 4663 foot lateral in late December.
This well is located in the black oil window the play and is currently shut in for a pressure build up test.
Three of the four verticals have been completed in our test in various perspective intervals predominately in the gas condensate window for reservoir.
The fourth vertical well drilled in 2014 will be completed later this year.
Early results from both the vertical and horizontal wells have been encouraging and we plan to drill two additional horizontal wells in 2015 and the gas condensate window for long-term testing and one additional vertical well in each of side of the acreage position.
We then announced the West Virginia and Southwestern acquisition from Chesapeake in October acquiring 413 000 net acres of approximately 336 million cubic foot equivalent a day of net production.
This transaction closed on December 22 2014 and as Bill mentioned few moments ago weve hit the ground running the area and we are excited to be starting the process of extracting the value of the enterprise when we make the purchase.
In the separate transaction we also acquired 30 000 net acres and approximately 29 million cubic foot equivalent per day of net production from Statoil in the same area of West Virginal and Southwest Pennsylvania and this transaction close on January 27 2015.
Our final sizable transaction for the year was in Northeast Pennsylvania where we acquired approximately 47 000 net acres and 50 million cubic feet per day of net production from WPX.
In addition to the E&amp;P assets we also acquired firm transportation of 260 million cubic feet per day and an 86% ownership in the small gathering system.
The transaction was announced in December 2014 and was closed on January 30 2015.
The WPX deal is our eight hold-on acquisition in Northeast Pennsylvania and one of the exciting things about this transaction is it brought significant value to company in multiple ways.
The E&amp;P increase in existing production fit seamlessly into our current Susquehanna operations and justify the purchase and when you add the value the foreign transportation capacity to move additional gas out of the region on the Millennium pipeline system the deal easily pays for itself in a great way.
2015 has begun with the same quick pace in which 2014 ended.
While we are in the process of closing the Statoil and WPX transactions we have been very focused on making good progress on the assets divestures that we announced as part of the acquisition financing.
Each of the assets identified for divestiture which are in East Texas in our E&amp;P operations along with the gathering system in Northeast Pennsylvania weve been actively marketing the access during the first quarter.
We have received the very high level interest in all the assets and remain confident in our previously announced proceeds range of about $600 million to $800 million.
We anticipate announcing these sales in the next few weeks and closing well occur in the second quarter as previously discussed.
With that I will now turn it over to Craig Own to discuss our financial results for 2014.
Thank you Jeff and good morning.
We had a very strong 2014 achieving record results driven by higher production volumes combining with our emphasis on cost control and efficiency and slightly higher realized gas prices.
Excluding certain non-cash items we reported net income in 2014 of 801 million or $2.27 per diluted share compared to 704 million or $2 per diluted share in 2013.
Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and our abilities was a company record at 2.3 billion up 14% compared to 2013.
Operating income for our exploration production segment was just over 1 billion compared 879 million in 2013.
This increase was primarily due to higher volumes and realized prices partially offset by higher operating cost and expenses due to increased activity levels.
For the year we realized an average gas price including hedges of $3.72 per Mcf which is up from $3.65 per Mcf in 2013.
Excluding the hedges our average realized gas price increased to $3.74 per Mcf from $3.17 per Mcf last year.
We currently have 240 Bcf or approximately 27% of our 2015 projected natural gas production hedged to fixed price swaps at a weighted average price of $4.40 per MMBtu.
Our hedge position combined with the cash flow generated from our midstream business provides protection on approximately 40% of our total expected cash flow for 2015 assuming current prices.
Additionally we had approximately 310 Bcf of our 2015 expected gas production protected from the potential warning basis differentials to hedging activities and sales arrangements at an average basis differential to NYMEX gas prices of approximately minus $0.17 per Mcf.
In February our 2015 year-to-date natural gas discount which is inclusive of transportation in both Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia is estimated to be about zero resulting in realized prices estimated to be approximately flat to NYMEX.
Our detailed hedge position is included in our Form 10-K filed yesterday.
We once again kept our focus on keeping cash cost low in 2014 and cost structure continues to be one of the lowest in the industry.
With all-in cash operating cost of approximately $1.32 per Mcfe in 2014 compared to a $1.25 per Mcfe in 2013.
That includes our LOE G&amp;A net interest expense and taxes.
Lease operating expenses for our E&amp;P segment were $0.91 per Mcfe in 2014 up from $0.86 per Mcfe in 2013 primarily due to increased gathering and compressing cost associated with our growth in the Fayetteville shale in Northeast Appalachia.
Our G&amp;A expenses remain flat at $0.24 per Mcfe for the year; taxes other than income taxes were $0.11 per Mcfe in 2014 compared to $0.10 per Mcfe last year.
The full cost pool amortization rate in our E&amp;P segment increased slightly to $1.10 per Mcfe compared to $1.08 per Mcfe last year.
Operating income from our midstream services segment was $361 million in 2014 up from $325 million reported last year.
This increase was primarily due to an increase in gas marketing margins and increased gathering activity from our Fayetteville Northeast Appalachia assets.
We invested approximately $7.4 billion in 2014 which includes approximately $5 billion for our West Virginia and Southwest Pennsylvania property acquisition from Chesapeake.
As a result of this acquisition at December 31 2014 our debt to total book capitalization ratio was 60% up from 35% in 2013.
We had 300 million drawn on our $2 billion revolving credit facility at year end '14 and we also had 53 million of cash on our books.
Since year end we raised 2.3 billion in net proceeds from our equity offering and 2.2 billion in long term notes which had the effect of lowering our debt to total book capitalization to approximately 40%.
These transactions allowed us to pay off and terminate 364 day bridge.
A bridge loan that we took out in place to initially finance adjusting transaction.
As Jeff mentioned last month we closed two other large transaction that were announce in the fourth quarter for a total of 653 million.
The net proceeds of 600 million to 800 million from the previously announced asset sales will be used to pay-off the 500 million term loan that we took out in December with the remaining proceeds to pay-down the balance of our revolver.
As Bill mentioned we've revised our capital investment program and guidance for 2015 excluding the acquisitions previously announced and closed in December and January our capital investments are now expected to be 2 billion for 2015 down from 2.4 billion last year.
This reduced capital program provides strong production growth over 2014 solid quarter-over-quarter growth in 2015 and assuming a similar capital program is expected to be able to produce low teen growth in 2016.
We are guiding an expected differential plus transportation cost with discount of $0.70 to $0.85 per Mcf in 2015 which when combine with our estimated actual discount of about zero for February year-to-date in Northeast Appalachia and Southwest Appalachia resulted in average natural gas discount from March through December of $1.20 to $1.30 per Mcf in these areas.
We currently expect our debt to total book capitalization ratio at the end of 2015 to range from 39% to 41% assuming current prices.
We have an exciting year ahead of us; the strength of the portfolio will once again be demonstrated as we look to generate value for our shareholders in 2015 and beyond.
That concludes my comments so now I'll turn it back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your questions.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Steve I dont know who you want to [indiscernible] or maybe take it yourself but obviously youve had a lot of moving parts on the balance sheet and Im curious as to what is the target if there is such a thing for the balance sheet? Whether it be a debt to EBITDA coverage ratio or some other metric? And just in the same context can you talk about any other moving parts in terms of disposals and plan proceeds beyond what you have highlighted this morning? Im thinking specifically about the vertical wells you inherited and perhaps any other well that you can see on par? Ive got a follow-up please.
As far as the ratio what weve been concentrating on is EBITDA ratio and if you think about where we were before we did the acquisition that was a middle 1.3 to 1.5 type range number and our goal is by 2017 we get in close to that range.
So weve built our capital budget.
Weve built our thought process on doing that.
As far as other dispositions go we have mentioned in the past that probably some of the conventional assets on the new acquisition that we did will be potential disposition candidates that would be as early as late this year and probably more in 2016.
And there are some other things out there that were looking at that maybe sales or sales candidate in the near future.
I wont go in a lot of details here I just mention one of them.
We actually have a gas storage field in Arkansas that under some previous agreements we couldnt do anything with them until about June of this year.
You might see us sell that one and maybe clear some other small assets.
You can tune on that one and watch the year as it plays out.
You are not to waver the point but obviously what one past overview on gas prices to see you get to that 1.3 to 1.5.
Is that target we should take as this is where you absolutely went to get to or is it subject to gas prices as well thats in 2017 timeline? I think the target for you to think of us we will get under 2 by 2017 and we will manage our business to do that.
Our goal though is to be below well under 2 and near that mid 1.5 range.
If gas price is $2.50 per three or four years youre going to see this under 2 rather than close to 1.5 and if its more like 3.50 youre going to see its in that 1.5 range.
Thats very very clear.
My follow-up is really on take away capacity.
Obviously in the northern Marcellus my understanding is obviously a big bump in the volumes in Q4.
It seems youve got a 1.3 Bcf to be at [gross capacity].
What are your plans to utilize that and if you give us an update on where the take away restrictions might be over the next couple of years in the Southwestern Marcellus as well? Ill leave it there.
Ill just remind everyone on the Southwest Marcellus we designed that program to ramp up fairly slow and we did that for two reasons.
One we didnt know exactly all of the things we would run across and issues that we might hit along the way and as Bill said right now were little bit ahead of schedule and I remember rolling about 60 days into this.
But the other kind of restriction we had on it was that we knew for next couple of years that we had only a certain amount of firm that we could get to and we built our plan based on the firm that we thought was available to us and some of that we have today some of that were in the process of getting.
As we get it well talk more about it.
Because of that what we did was in early 2015 2016 all the growth all of the upside is basically built around that Northeast Pennsylvania and as you mentioned we have more than enough capacity there today and our marketing group is actively -- we are not using the day as actively marketing that and youll see just like you have in some early quarters little bit higher marketing value as you go forward over the next few quarters.
By the time we get towards the end of the year in 2016 well have grown into that overall firm and basically from that standpoint I guess what Im saying is even if we stumble in southwest a little bit in what we just bought the company will be fine and the guidance weve given will work for 2015 and Craig said 2016 was a low double digit growth with the high single digit growth we think we can achieve that.
Thanks Steve.
I appreciate the answers.
Our next question comes from the line of Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
You obviously had a pretty substantial CapEx cut with this latest revised guidance.
I was just hoping you could talk about what the impact might be on the '16 and '17 spending plan compared to what you had announced previously.
Seems like across all of Appalachia a lot of producers are scaling back and I would think that would have some impact on the supply balance at least for 2016.
Obviously 2016 budget depends on what the gas prices and what the oil prices as you look out into the future I think the comment that Craig made probably says it best.
We can invest $2 billion in 2016 and still have that high single low double digit growth rate during that year and that would -- what would mean that we've pretty severe gas price in 2016 as well and if you can project that out to 2017 and invest $2 billion again and you've another difficult year from a pricing standpoint we're still in high single digit growth range.
We kind of done the bookings we're comfortable with that we can give good delivery on the low side of price and then the other side of gas price comes back during that period of time you'll see us grow faster.
Thanks Steve.
Just as a follow-up on the budget for '15.
The CapEx cut was pretty significant even in just your main drilling programs.
Fayetteville and Marcellus and obviously the production didn't change a whole lot so can you talk us through what the main driver was there? If this is service cost improvements or well performance? Yes there are three places where in general we made some cuts.
We had some discretionary capital and by discretionary it's important but you could at this year or next year and that was part of it and that discretionary capital had no production with it.
There was we're looking at our new assets in West Virginia and really we just revise some things because we've some guesses going in and we know it worked now and that actually revised down a little bit and then in the Fayetteville shale from the original $2.6 billion capital budget we drop from 6 rig program to 4 rig program and there you can see the corresponding decrease there.
That to in place there was any production decrease in the system and that's why the production in general could stay high while the capital was going down as you go through it so that's the basic answer on that.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice; please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Steve I'm wondering you addressed this a bit already with an earlier question but I wondered if you could add a bit more clarity to how you're selling your gas in Appalachia? I think going back to Craig's comments; I think you probably inherited some of that debt to M3 exposure from Chesapeake that's helping you out here in the beginning of the year.
But some of your other operators particularly up in the northeast have talked about projecting some price related curtailments and with your discussion your firm transportation out there my sense is you're not as exposed to that.
But I wonder if you could clarify that or maybe illuminate a bit more about your thinking in your exposure there? Yes as you said a lot of what we have in the new acquisition is M3 type pricing but as far as some kind of pricing that would make us shut in wells or do something we factor that all into our capital budget so I don't see anything on the horizon there.
Okay okay that's helpful.
And then going back to your guidance there's a you guys bumped up the oil component of our volume guidance a bit and you actually looked like you beat 4Q on that front as well.
So wondered if you could talk about maybe what's changed in the last two months that led you to increase those oil volumes and what's behind it? I think we learned a lot more in the last two months basically we had most information where we're using when we put that original number together was data we got in November from Chesapeake and now we actually have field data and we've got well information so it's just having more data in last 60 days.
Okay great thank you Steve.
Our next question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens; please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
A few years back we were talking about how in the Fayetteville drilling times had reached technical limits couldn't be reduced much further and yet the last couple of years you guys have really quickened the pace.
You know can you speak to how much of that has been technology versus the experience with the rock? And you know being mindful that you guys have been in the Fayetteville a lot longer and as you just mentioned the Marcellus was kind of originally built to go slower.
Are you still seeing those sorts of same step changes in technology or experience with the rock in places like the Marcellus? Yes I'll start with Fayetteville I think there was some tough discussion in the past about whether or not we've reached the technical limit and I think when you got a well portfolio of drilled well that top 4 000 you got a lot of opportunities to learn and our teams have just continued to better understand the rock have better placement of the laterals and be much more accurate in those drilling plans in that drilling capability.
So that combined with a little bit of friendly competition between rigs does drive further improvements.
We have new rigs that were designed to be able to drill a day faster than the rigs they replaced.
So in the later time technology is beginning to help us with increase capability on those rigs.
And then it just continues learning.
We are moving a couple of rigs north to east some in Marcellus Northeast Pennsylvania and some in Southwest Appalachia.
Already weve seen drilling improvement times in Northeast Pennsylvania from our learnings in the rock our learnings from what weve picked up in the Fayetteville and our drilling teams that are moving up into that regions.
So we brought drilling days down and continue to bring those down in northeast.
In southwest there are lot of the assumptions and things that we put out on numbers of rigs and all of that were based off of industry drilling times.
Weve seen significant improvement both from the industry and even in the work that were doing our first well that I mentioned earlier the lateral portion drilled in three days and this is again leveraging some technology leveraging some experience and just getting better and better understand of rock.
So we do expect that well get further drilling time improvements in all of our areas.
We tend to track wells rather than rigs because of that and so youll seen Southwest Appalachia for example weve changed the number of rigs and it is more driven by the fact that we believe that we can learn even faster than we projected and we will drive those times down.
Great.
And then I apologize if I missed it in the prepared remarks.
But you know what Im thinking about the 50 to 55 wells you guys are looking at in Southwest Appalachia obviously there is a lot of primary objectives that you guys liked when you acquired that acreage how are you thinking about the breakout of those 50 to 55 wells? I gave out the kind of counties.
But were primarily targeting the Marcellus and wet areas of the Marcellus is the real objective at this point in time.
In the future as we learn from the industry as we get ourselves up and running in that area well obviously be looking at the Utica and some of the areas.
But right now for 15 absent some couple of weeks old wells were targeting the wet portion of the Marcellus.
Let me add I dont anyone to think that well bullish on the liquids.
Were targeting the wet area because thats where we have -- the gathering sits in place and that processes in place and will expand as we get into 2016 in some of the gas areas.
The other thing Ill just mention when we talk about the reserves we have on the books in the new acquisition all of that basically except for that conventional is Marcellus.
We only have one well total in our reserves as Utica.
So there is a bunch of upside there in the future for all those horizons.
Great.
I appreciate the color guys.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Steve you just set up the question going into 2016 as you think about maybe some of the gas areas how much midstream capital is needed? And how do you think about that spend over the next couple of years in the Southwest Marcellus region? As we go through the year one of the things youre going to see is well talk about our overall strategy for the various zones and the various parts of the play.
Today there are four different gathering systems one that is the conventional one and three other gathering systems they have gaps in them they need to have kind of the strategic work on whats there and then there is a certain [indiscernible] amount of acreage that we dont have any kind of gathering on and most of the Utica falls in that category.
So during the year well figure out how much were going to do versus third party well work with third parties to fill in some of those holes.
And I can talk better about it.
But certainly well look hard at using our midstream and our ability is to do part of that.
Okay.
And then on the same thought of updating attack curves and as you go into your own development program and see your own well results should we think about like maybe second quarter call August September timeframe maybe where youd have some internal new updates as far as your southwest region type curves? That might be a little bit early but maybe it somewhere around the -- certainly in the same half of the year.
The wells that were drilling right now they get put on in the second quarter if they get put on basically right now barely we can make that September timeframe but volume will reveal itself.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
You mentioned earlier in your remarks today that you gave southwest Appalachia a closer look in forming CapEx.
Is it possible to discuss what 2015 CapEx and production in that area looks like on a year-over-year basis? I'm curious to know the extent to which the southwest Appalachia has been subject to the same high grading and cost cutting as your two legacy plays? We don't have that much information on the previous operator's activity.
Well count I think is roughly the same between the two years but I don't know what their capital was and so I really can't say much about 2014.
Okay thanks.
At least the well count is in there that's helpful.
In your reserve areas that we talked about Southwest Appalachia is having 54% of acreage held by production how much of that percentage how much will that increase in 2015 when the program is complete? More broadly what are the pressures to drilling and hold acreage over the next several years? About half of the activity I think in 2015 will form acreage to some sort -- about maybe a third of the activity it's not that big on any given year its very manageable but we also have the ability to extend leases as in order due to lease expansion provisions included in the agreements.
Okay thanks very much appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt; please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning I just wanted to dive into little bit more on liquids pricing.
You all I think previously said you expected 30% realizations for NGLs relative to WTI how is that really changed in terms of your updated guidance? It hasn't.
When comparing make sure you've included that as well as there is transportation [D dot] coming NGLs of about $6 that it will include in that as well but as Steve said it really hasn't changed.
Okay and I guess on the same note then in terms of the drilling economics for your wet gas Marcellus in at $275 seller Mcf world I'm just curious to see if you can talk about your anticipated returns where the liquids prices are today? I don't generally comment about every one of our area besides its there what we'll do is the same thing we did in 2012 where we high graded we didn't when we moved on a pad we drill the very best wells in the pad but in each case we were very comfortable that we could reach our economic hurdle at 1.3 pbi we always talk about and we will do that in every one of our areas so this year's high grade program there maybe a little bit of inefficiencies and then you may have to go back to pad in the future but everywhere we drill in this environment we'll do that.
And again with that chance there is some kind of assumption by cost and we're using this year roughly $3.25 on the gas price $3.75 next year and $4 flat for ever after that and I think we're using $60 give or take average over the next three year oil price.
Okay and just one follow up if I could you actually took down CapEx guidance for Northeast Appalachia while the production guidance there actually increased a little bit so is this really a function of planning service cost high grading or both? It's a function of better wells than evenly projected when we hit the budget we did take included in the capital budget for Northeast Pennsylvania with some additional land and other non-production bearing type capital that we just pushed out and so you had better wells that ways in their production the capital changes were really not drilling and completion related.
And I think somebody else has mentioned talking about service cost we really have not adjusted anything based on guessing future service cost we certainly have already captured a little bit of cost and then we put that in there but none of our estimates have any kind of service cost featured drops in them.
Okay great that's helpful thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research; please proceed with your question.
Yes most of mine have been asked but a couple of quick things one of the things I loved about your earnings release in the past was that table of quarter-by-quarter 30 day rates for your key assets I noticed it's dropped out was that an oversight or you're going to bring that back because I miss it? Yes you'll see it next week what happened was that the release has been so large and we had one from Northeast Appalachia and we have one from Fayetteville and when we put out our new IR material next week you'll see both of those tables and then youll have the quarterly data in that overall.
So stay tuned on that part.
I apologize for that disclosure.
The other quick one BHP was selling their Fayetteville looks like no one wanted it what you kept you from being interested in that asset? I think the baseline kept us from being interest and we just did a $5 billion acquisition that was really the balance sheet more than it was asset so.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Dingmann with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed with your question.
Most of my have been hit but just couple of things very quick.
On Slide 8 I think Douglas talk about this earlier so you guys talk about sort of a takeaway and whats going on.
I guess just two things I had whats your thoughts about the takeaway in some of the newer areas especially as you look down south around up shore in Louis County would be more than -- are you bringing more infrastructure in takeaway in that area as well.
Im just trying to get an idea of where the infrastructure I understand the line is coming on but Im just not quite certain on how they are going to or what regions theyre going to tie up to? Neil youre talking about our gathering infrastructure? Yes sir.
Yes well talk more detail about that but its going to be -- have to be some kind of back loan run north-south across our acreage and around our acreage and where exactly it goes I dont know but it will certainly head in that direction towards southern counties and there is a small gathering system there already but it certainly doesnt have the capacity to do what we want to do.
I dont think we can upgrade it.
But were working on that right now.
My guess is its going to be almost north-south line runs across the four or five counties there.
Okay.
And then just lastly on that Slide 26 it shows the Northeast Appalachia just the tight curve there what you guys kind of I guess now if you had a certain estimate on the curves and it still turning into these so it looks like theyre turning pretty close to that I dont know the [12Ds] or so but it doesnt look a little bit different I guess in this slide deck versus and I was looking like against September and some of the backups may if you can just comment on sort of how you forecast some of these Northeast Appalachia type curve these days.
I think youve seen a little bit different mix from quarter-to-quarter.
If you think about last year at this time it was almost all Bradford data and this year we drill a lot of the Susquehanna wells.
But other than that mix the discussion that Bill had about the fact that were hitting very good wells there isnt anything fundamentally change.
There are EURs are up little bit because we know more about that wells its really just that.
We have upgraded the completion as I talked about before and the quality of our landing in zone and our ability to steer is improved quite a bit as well so were optimized where we land staying in of the whole well and then profit loading as we talked about earlier.
That helps; its a great point there.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you and good morning.
First one if you could clarify the 1.4 Bcf a day in Appalachia firm transportation includes capacity on constitution correct? If so can you remind of that amount as well as the overall cost of the capacity in place? It does not included in 2015 and 2016 weve had nearly 1.4 today but late in 2016 we assume constitution come on and thats 150 million a day to us.
And what actually happens some capacity we have today falls off as we go into 2016 and constitution comes on and so its basically got flat about 1.4 for year.
Okay great.
And then just the overall cost of that capacity? Our weighted average cost for all of our portfolio there is right about $0.36.
Okay great.
And then a follow up if I may and maybe a more theoretical question on capital efficiency how much that maybe an overused term these days.
If the company like other producers drill the best locations today in light of slow commodity prices what is that mean for capital efficiency in the out period that is would it nationally decrease as the remaining locations in inventory of same lesser quality? Holding all of those constant.
It certainly would part of the reason we did the acquisition is that that acquisition has a large amount running room with large amount of high quality wells in them.
But certainly youre drilling very best well first the other ones are going to be a little less than that well.
So you will see that for the industry or our company or for an area you will see that at all the time.
Yes got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow up on the impact of commodity prices and cost on your longer term growth strategy.
In late December you showed production in 17 being up about a Bcfe a day versus 15 I believe that was run at 4 for a couple of years and then 4.50 in 17 you mention youre not ready to make a statement on cost but can you just talk to whether you feel like you could still achieve these targets and what gap price you would need to meet those objectives? Well I think to hit those exact numbers we need above the gas price we put in that sheet actually and Im not sure about the 450 in 17 because whatever you get in 17 is really based on 16 wells and early 17 wells but long term we saw that several times we think we're in a $4 world and a high $3 world -- $4 world we think we can hit those targets and then all of a sudden were talking about this 4 was as if it's low $3 world and what we do in that world.
Got it and then assuming the bulk of that incremental production comes from Appalachia and I know not all of it is natural gas but how much additional firm transport do you need to achieve those targets and how much do you expect to you as the local markets because it seems like incrementally there is like couple of hundred million a day that you've locked in right now.
Yes I think between now and '16 we will -- when you say local markets I won't quite describe what they will what we'll do is work with other operator sort of excess capacity and use user capacity and so I think on a percentage basis selling into what you call it a daily market isn't going to be that higher percentage and we think there are plenty of excess capacity to work on between now and '16.
You will see us in the near future commit to probably close to Bcf a day that would the '17 '18 '19 type timeframes and then really we believe the market is changing a little bit and historically we talked about the fact that you have to have firm.
At some point we believe in the not too distinct future Northeast will have more than enough capacity from a takeaway standpoint and then firm isn't as important.
So one of the things you will see us doing whether its for one Bcf and I'm talking about or any other firm that we might think about adding on top of that we're looking at the shorter contract term life not necessarily the 15s and 20s but more like the 10s and we will certainly be watching very closely the cost and where that's going to is it go through because once it do have all the capacity you need then the firm isn't as important and it actually becomes an issue we paid a lot for that we've long term timeframe on it.
So we know we need a Bcf a today we know that somewhere around 2020 we could certainly be producing 2.5 plus Bcf a day out of that new acquisition and so there is a Bcf we need and we'll kind of sort to what else we need after that.
Just seems the acquisition close weve picked up another 175 million a day on a three year term.
So our guys are out opportunistically picking these very comfortable with we can continue to do that.
Sorry I've a lot of follow up but can you talk to what was the cost of those incremental projects are relative to say the cost of underwriting a new pipeline out of the region or reversal? I won't talk a lot about just to say that since these are committed by other companies and its available today their price was low so you're talking $0.30 type numbers or $0.40 numbers and Im talking 50 to 60s.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we've reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
I start the call today and talks about the differences that happened between this time last year and today while there is a lot of differences I also talked about the consistency that make us as premier company.
We've talked about we've got world class assets and advantageous in geographic areas operated better staff that just doesn't promise that we can reach lofty goals and lofty production we've already done it and that experience is being brought to new projects and is unmatched by almost anyone in the industry.
I do want to make one last point like all companies we develop plans and we've talked about our plan today but I also want to make sure we don't just plan we prepare and we prepare for what might occur when the plan doesn't work and when the plan doesn't work.
If change is required we know to do we do it quickly and then we prepare again.
And it's really from our standpoint the only way you work in a business like ours where there is higher volatility and I think what you see in 2014 with our records what you seen over the last three years we've been able to do as proven that ability of planning and staying prepared as we go through.
More proof for that is the fact that we were able to capture some very high quality assets this last year while others in the industry worried about how to respond to difficult price environment.
I think that sets us apart I'm excited about what we're going to do in 2015 for Southwestern Energy and thank you for being part of our call today and have a great weekend.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions.
Afterward you may feel free to requeue for additional questions.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you Operator.
Good morning and thank all of you for joining us today.
Now with me today are Bill Way our President and Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Hancock our Director of Investor Relations.
If you've not received a copy of this mornings Press Release regarding the First Quarter 2015 Financial and Operating Results you could find a copy on our Web site at www.swn.com.
Also I'd like to point out that many of the comments during the teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting the outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the forward-looking statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Security and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
The first quarter was one of high activity for us and one of delivering on promises.
We promise to announce our asset sales between $600 million and $800 million and we've already closed one disposition of approximately $500 million and we'll close another totaling $218 million later in the second quarter.
Operations and integration over new acquisition are ahead of schedule and the company set new production records that were above our first quarter guidance.
I'd like to briefly talk about that production and what we are thinking regarding guidance.
Approximately 3.6 Bcf of the production in the first quarter was from either the E&amp;P assets we were selling.
We did not guide for production revenues or cash flow from the identified disposition candidates but even the accounting for the production from the asset sales the actual production was slightly above the high-end of our quarterly guidance.
Typically you'd expect us to guide production higher and if I'm pushed today I would say we expect to be at or slightly above the upper guidance of 955 Bcfe in 2015.
We are not changing production guidance yet because other key items are also influx.
We certainly want to see more of the second quarter before taking a better guess whether we revise our guidance on basis differentials and in addition we've identified approximately $120 million of capital reductions that do not affect production.
These include the way we fracture stimulate 2015 cost savings and just plain fine tuning of the budget.
Even larger savings may be recognized with a little bit more knowledge.
So for now we'll not give any detailed guidance changes just assume better production with lower capital and no detrimental effects to 2016 or beyond.
We'll update you later as we know better.
Let me now turn the call over to Craig Owen so he can discuss our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
We're off to a strong start in 2015 as our expanding portfolio continues to exhibit its strength.
We achieved record production for the quarter and saw our realized gas prices benefit from our firm transportation portfolio.
Excluding certain non-cash items we reported net income attributable to common stock of $84 million or $0.22 per diluted share for the first quarter compared to $231 million or $0.66 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014.
The mandatory convertible shares that we issued in January have the impact of reducing our current quarter earnings by $0.07 per share due to the dividend and $0.03 per share due to a required theoretical allocation of undistributed earnings to the convertible shares.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities in the first quarter was $493 million compared to $617 million for the same period last year.
This cash flow funded 95% of our capital investments in the quarter when excluding acquisitions.
We realized an average gas price of $2.99 per Mcf during the first quarter including hedges and $2.63 per Mcf excluding hedges.
Our combined realized average gas price excluding hedges in our Appalachia divisions was $2.86 per Mcf for the quarter.
As a reminder all of our realized prices include the impact of transportation costs.
Our continued focus on our cost structure remains a differentiator for Southwestern with all-in cash operating costs of approximately $1.28 per Mcfe in the first quarter of 2015 excluding certain transaction costs from the Chesapeake transit acquisition.
At March 31 2015 our debt-to-total book capitalization ratio was 42% down from 60% at the end of 2014.
When adjusted for the Northeast Pennsylvania gathering divestiture which closed this month and the pending closing of the transaction to divest our conventional E&amp;P assets our pro forma debt at March 31 2015 is $4.5 billion with a debt to total book capitalization ratio of 39%.
We expected in 2015 with a debt-to-EBITDA of about 3.0x at current prices trending lower in the next few years keeping us on track for hitting our goals.
I am proud of these results we delivered this quarter and I'm excited for what we have planned for the rest of 2015.
I'll now turn it over to Bill Way for an update of our operational results.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
As mentioned earlier we are off to a very strong start for the year.
While the industry faces the challenge of lower prices compared to this time last year our portfolio and our people once again exhibited their strengths and showed the benefits of combining exceptional assets with our trademark focus on low cost structure and strong performance improvement while delivering another quarter of record production.
I'll briefly run through some of the latest activities in each of the divisions.
In Northeast Appalachia the team continues to impress and build on its momentum from 2014.
During the quarter we had production of 83 billion cubic feet of gas which is 43% higher than the 53 billion cubic feet of gas from the first quarter of 2014.
We are able to achieve this production growth through continued well performance improvements and by fully executing on our very successful gas transportation strategy by taking advantage of our strong firm transportation portfolio to move our gas to premium markets.
We were moving approximately 1.15 billion cubic feet of gas per day in Northeast Appalachia at March 31 and realized a natural gas price of $2.92 for the quarter.
This represents a benefit of $150 million or $1.61 per MMBtu versus selling natural gas without the benefit of the SWN firm capacity.
The transaction that closed in January with WPX puts us in even better position with our firm transportation portfolio ensuring we will be able to continue our impressive growth in this asset and get our production to market with competitive pricing.
In addition to the pricing benefits we are seeing from our own natural gas for the quarter we were able to utilize some of the unused capacity from our firm transportation portfolio to generate additional margin on third party gas where we created $2.5 million in additional margin.
While delivering our solid first quarter results we also moved forward with our delineation program on our Northeast Pennsylvania acreage.
We placed our fourth upper Marcellus well and Marcucci Jones 7H online in the first quarter and this Bradford County well is another indication the upper Marcellus contains promising potential and will add to the portfolio of economic drilling locations.
This latest well was producing 5.2 million cubic feet per day on March 31 after being online about 45 days.
We have a total of four additional upper Marcellus wells planned this year in Susquehanna County.
We've begun drilling on two of these wells and will complete them over the next two quarters.
Further delineation activities will progress throughout 2015 as we continue to prove up our acreage in the area.
We also continue to make progress on our frac optimization learnings where we are now consistently placing our laterals in the portion of the reservoir for the best rock properties occur and we are placing more sand per foot of lateral while controlling costs by varying the stage phasing of the completions.
Moving on to Southwest Appalachia we accomplished a great deal in the first quarter of owning this asset.
The team did a very detailed review and identified the key items that needed to be handled as part of the transition and have diligently worked throughout that list and knocked off many of those already.
Stepping back from the specific progress made while the transition of any asset this size has its challenges the first four months could not have gone much smoother.
It's a testament to the focus and attention to detail that the team has each and every day that this transition has gone so seamlessly.
In the First Quarter Southwest Appalachia had net reduction of 30 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent with approximately 55% of this volume being dry gas.
Thanks to the decisive action by the West Virginia legislature and governor we were able to transfer permits from the previous owners early in the year allowing the SWN team to do a great job of implementing a plan to bring wells online and begin our investment program.
The net exit rate for Southwest Appalachia was 333 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day and we anticipate a steady ramp from this number now that the transition is complete.
On the marketing front we've heard some feedback from some analysts that there is some concern over whether we'll be able to get our production to market as we develop these assets.
Well after only four months of operating these assets I can say that we are well on our way to implementing the plan that we identified during the acquisition evaluation and we hope to be able to give you details on some of this in the very near future.
We are in active discussions with a number of parties and are very confident that our ability to acquire sufficient capacity out of the region.
Without going into details I can summarize by saying we feel even more comfortable about the state of the available infrastructure than we did in our original assessment and we believe that the potential pipeline capacity challenges can be mitigated just as we did in Northeast Pennsylvania and Fayetteville before that.
Looking at NGLs our price realizations for the quarter were $10.35 per barrel consistent with our guidance for the 1.7 million barrels of NGLs we produced.
We feel confident with our firm sales and our capacity levels for our development plan through late 2018 and early 2019 and in the interim we'll continue to optimize our liquid strategy for the longer term.
On the operation side of our new asset as I mentioned earlier we've started off with very encouraging signs on the cost front.
We drilled our first five wells during the quarter and were able to drill the wells quicker than we anticipated.
These five wells had an average drill time to total depth of 19 days well below the original assumption of 26 days.
While we're still early these are very encouraging data points and we fully expect that we will continuously drive drilling days down just as we've done in Fayetteville and in Northeast Appalachia.
As we promised we announced the acquisition we also continued to do what we do best identify efficiency enhancement opportunities that will drive out cost in future wells.
As an example of this is water handling where we are currently trucking every water movement.
Once we get the water handling infrastructure in place we expect to recognize material cost savings likely in the $1 million per well range.
And consistent with our water goals and practices in other divisions we've begun reusing produced water saving over $6 per barrel versus disposing of the water.
These are just two examples and we continue to look at additional opportunities as we get more familiar with the asset.
Any time there's a large acquisition such as we did in Southwest Appalachia it's easy for the market to put all the focus on that new asset.
Our Fayetteville team sure has not done that.
We continue to operate one of the best natural gas plays in the country with the Fayetteville Shale and it continues to perform very well.
This asset continues to be a core piece of our portfolio as it's location near the growing demand low cost structure stable basis differentials and our vertical integration combined to create significant value for our shareholders.
It also provides the extra benefit of flexibility which can be a key differentiator in times like these.
Due to our HBP position and our vertical integration we have the ability to slowdown or ramp up much quicker than others in the industry.
This will continue to be the case as we watch to see what gas prices do over the next few months.
We remain ready to act should prices change in either direction and the Fayetteville will be a large component of that plan.
In the first quarter our net production from Fayetteville Shale was 115 billion cubic feet of gas and the team did an incredible job of delivering these results despite what turned out to be a pretty rough winter in Arkansas.
There are a couple of weeks back in February where icy conditions created challenges to rig moves well maintenance and completion operations.
With the extra effort from a lot of team members we were able to hit our targets and beyond without jeopardizing safety which will always be a core value for this company.
In closing as I said earlier we've had a strong start to 2015 and we are looking forward to delivering even more value for our shareholders as we go through the year.
The SWN team prides itself on focusing on long-term shareholder value and this year will be no different.
This is an exciting time for Southwestern Energy as we continue the integration of our new assets into the already strong portfolio of legacy assets.
We look forward to sharing more good news with you on our next call.
This concludes my comments so I'll turn it back over to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Doug Leggate from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
Steve since the last earnings call the pace of rig activity in U.S.
in the lower 48 has obviously accelerated lower on the oil side.
I'm just kind of curious as to if you could update us on your macro view obviously I guess you've taken a longer term very positive outlook.
How are you seeing specifically the impact on things like associated gas and your gather to the macro outlook as we move to the next 12 months? And I have got a more operational follow-up.
Okay.
And I'll just kind of be general with these comments and we can talk specifically I want to talk specifically.
Our macro view really hasn't changed much.
There isn't that much difference today in the supply/demand balance and certainly we had a much warmer December than you normally have and weather swings it back and forth but we've been saying for the last three or four years basically starting in 2014 and going through 2018 demand continues to increase at a significant clip and production has to increase and it didn't have to increase necessarily as fast as it did in the last half of last year.
So we see some things that are slowing down there.
So from a macro picture irrespective of the associated gas part of it I think we were heading towards a balance with the idea of associated gas back into it I think that just means that the balance pulls up a little bit earlier in the process.
So I expect over the next 12 months that we're heading towards the $4 mark not staying less than $3 mark.
So I guess my related follow-up is in the event then that we see a recovery given you've now obviously got this very significant asset in the portfolio how do you prioritize it incremental capital allocation as across the three core areas? And if I may just add-on to that if you could include your commentary around emerging opportunities as well in terms of how much capital you allocate to exploration? The capital allocation is fairly simple as long as you don't have constraints and you're always going to put the capital where the best economics are at.
But you have constraints.
And so we've debottlenecked basically the Northeast and as we give more capital I want to say Northeast Northeast Pennsylvania as we have more capital available and as we get pricing that's a little bit stronger expect us to go faster there as we grow into that capacity that we recently purchased the firm capacity.
And our new acquisition its got comparable type economics but going back to the comments about the take away we need to get a little bit of that more firms in place and I think that will happen over the next couple of quarters but once that happens and you can start going faster there.
But right now today if it happened it would be number two on the list.
And then as Bill said Fayetteville Shale is a swing for us.
It's got good economics but it's a little bit less than those other two areas so that's where you make your swing.
If what I just said about the pricing doesn't even come close in one of the $2 world eight months or nine months from now the first place you can start backing down is in the Fayetteville Shale.
Now when you start thinking about new ventures or exploration we're always going to do some of that and all concept there is we're looking for something that's even better economics than whatever we have.
And I don't care if it's an acquisition or the exploration component.
That's we believe should be the major reason that you do it and we're always going to put a little bit of capital to that direction.
Historically we've put about 10% of our capital that way.
Next couple of years as we're working on the debt that Craig talked about we maybe do a little less than 10% but we'll always put something to the exploration side looking for that next better economics where we can more efficiently put capital to work.
Right.
Appreciate the answer Steve.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning gentlemen.
I'm looking at your slide that shows all that some of that attractive acreage you have in the  what I call that West Virginia Panhandle area and I guess really two questions around that area and just sort of the West  the more Southern West Virginia.
When you tackle that I noticed on the Melvin well that you had in the Marcellus and then as well as the Hubbard it looked like the lateral lengths are just a little bit shorter than some others in the area.
I guess my first question is just around that.
Does that continue to be the plan or was that more because of lease lines or maybe Bill for you just your thoughts around sort of lateral lengths as it pertains to both Marcellus and Utica wells in that area? Yes.
The lateral lengths for West Virginia in the current State of  where we are with permitting and certainly in Northeast Pennsylvania are largely controlled by unit size and so you'll see those depending on where we're drilling moving around.
We are in the process of permitting and preparing for some much longer lateral lengths.
In West Virginia our average was 7500.
We've got some 10 000 and 11 000 and 12 000-foot wells planned where we have longer units and we just have to get through the permits and get those done same in Northeast Pennsylvania.
We've got a couple of very long laterals that are in front of us to drill and complete again because the unit sizes were set up to enable us to do that.
Okay.
Let me jump in there.
We drilled or we haven't drilled there's over 200 wells drilled in that West Virginia panhandle area and so when you go back on those units it's basically the size of that unit.
And so in that case they're probably in the 5 000 foot or less.
As we put the new units together they are greater than 7 000 feet and that goes back to Bill's comment about we think going forward the average is around 7500-foot but it will swing from five all the way up to 10 000 feet.
Wow! Okay.
Good to hear.
And then just one follow-up.
You mentioned that huge savings you'll likely see on the water going forward your thoughts as you drill some of this in West Virginia you certainly have more than just West Virginia but just using that you certainly have prospectivity for both Utica Marcellus maybe in some upper Devonian.
As you all tackle this will you do on some on some of these pads go after some of these multi-stacked and tackle it that way.
So I guess my question is one how will you  when complete some of these pads will you do it on some of the multi-formations and two besides the water are there other things like that that you see some material cost savings going forward? Well the way we have planned the development we're targeting it up front the Marcellus for the next couple of years.
And what we've disclosed when we put the acquisition together we would both study and get learnings from the industry on the Utica.
And so the timing of the Utica was pushed out a few years just so that we could get a handle on that.
But our development plan includes pads that are sufficient to handle both the Marcellus development and the Utica development in the same pattern or in the same area.
And the water infrastructure along with the gas infrastructure they've kind of got two different flavors.
One in  with the water infrastructure will bring water to the pads as we're laying gathering lines to those pads and be able to use that water for both Utica for Marcellus.
As we develop through times to your other part of your question can we go after multiple intervals with the same well I think that's to be played out and that's obviously upside but remember we've got wet gas in the Marcellus in a large portion of our acreage and dry Utica gas.
So we won't co-mingle those just simply because of the fact that you end up paying processing on dry gas which you are going to value for.
So we've got a lot of efficiencies that we're working through.
We've been studying the acreage and studying the unit sizes and making sure that we can best utilize the pads for all of these particular intervals size them accordingly and look how we manage those well slots going forward so that we are not adding to the investment in the future.
That makes sense.
Great detail.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Charles Meade from Johnson Rice.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
I was wondering if you guys could offer a bit more detail on the 13 wells in Southwest Appalachia that you brought on in the quarter.
And I know these weren't wells that you guys drilled but could you talk about whether they had a Southwest completion on them and where they were geographically and also if there are any surprises in there? We are primarily focused in the North part of our Marcellus acreage.
We have a combination of waiting up wells that were waiting on pipeline and being able to bring those on so they were previously completed and just waiting to be brought online.
If you look at that Marcellus and over the kind of an average of these wells 30 day IPs for the SWN wells range anywhere from 5 million up to as high as 14 million and what we are doing right now is looking at managing and optimizing flow back to generate the highest liquids yield on these that we can so we're in a bit of study in that place.
There are several other wells that came on adjacent to us from Nobel and number of other operators that are in that same sort of 10 million to almost 20 million a day range again liquid content varying lateral length varying.
The wells we brought on are really more 5 million to 6 million  6 000 foot laterals again in this sort of area where the units are already established and then the wells we've got planned going forward are more in the 10 000-foot to 12 000-foot length.
Got it.
That's helpful detail Bill.
And but any surprises or either positive or negative in there or was it all just pretty much within the bounds of what you expected? No real new surprises.
I mean I think the ability to get in there and get to work the ability to maneuver through.
I think we've got some additional work to do on permitting is not a constraint but it's more really understanding the rules of the game and the time it takes that sort of thing but we've got quite an effort to building an inventory of those but other than that I think we're encouraged.
One of the things that has happened and I mentioned it in my comments is our ability to drill wells the time it takes to do that we're seeing quite a bit more success in driving down that days to drill faster than we anticipated.
We brought our new flagship rigs to the region to be drilling and they're perfectly suited for drilling in this particular rocket in this particular area and given how we put together the movement or the packaging of the rigs we're able to move them a lot faster than competitor rigs in the area and that's been able to help us as well.
And let me add two things to that.
One I want to emphasize what Bill said about the production.
We had as it stands today we believe that we need to manage that production rate to get the maximum liquids so you're not going to see really high rates out of the wells.
So for us even to determine if it's a good well bad well it's a several month process because we're managing that rate.
And so we don't see anything today but part of that has to do with the way we completed the wells.
The other thing as you said those wells were all drilled by the other company and from where you land the well and how much you stay in zone I think there are going to be some differences in what we do going forward.
So we can talk more about it in later quarters for some of the wells we recently drilled and we'll figure out if we're doing better or worse at that point in time and that part of it so this is way early stages and we're happy with what we're seeing but there's still a long way to go even on these wells.
Got it.
And if I could just kind of sneak in one more.
In Northeast PA at least relative to Q4 your average lateral was shorter but your production rate was up or your 30 day rate was up.
And again Bill is that just a function of the geographic mix and you're more in the good areas or is there anymore story that you'd elaborate on there? Again the lateral lengths are driven by unit size so they will bounce around as we go.
We've made a significant effort to really tighten up the landing zone for these wells in Appalachia and we're sharing this across the whole company of course.
But really tighten up the landing zone where fractures  where initiation of the fractures is best suited where the rock is characteristics are best suited to get the best well.
We on average we're increasing our sand loading on wells and on the average we are staying in zone much much better and the result of that is these improved wells.
And what you'll see as we go through time and some of this can be inventory or location driven but a majority of it is just the quality of our wells are improving so much with all of the learnings that we're doing and that is impacting both the IP rates and 30 dayrates.
Thank you gentlemen.
It's all great detail.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rowe from Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
I just had a quick question on the Fayetteville to start out.
So seeing that daily volumes decline sequentially by about 6% and you spent about 40% or so of your budget CapEx for the full year in the first quarter.
So I guess was weather a driving factor at all in the decline quarter-over-quarter or how should we think about the production sequentially from Q4 relative to the capital spend? Well I think the first key point is we beat guidance in that asset and all of the other assets that we have in spite of weather conditions that we have.
But I did mention weather so we did have a couple of weeks worth of ice in Fayetteville which impacts both the ability to get out and service wells and produce and the timing of when we get wells completed.
So the quarter was backend loaded more than normal given the weather which yes we got the investment done but the wells were delayed coming on and that impacted what was there.
And if you look at February and into March that's when the majority of the wells were put online versus sort of ratable.
But that will catch up with itself and certainly take us forward for the year.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you mentioned I think it was a 330 million a day exit rate for southwest Appalachia.
Is that an equivalence number and is that net or gross? It's a net number and its equivalent  Mcfe equivalent.
Okay perfect.
And maybe just one last question to squeeze in would be just can you remind us on the capital allocation within the Southwest Appalachia this year I think you all have 50 to 55 gross wells planned.
Can you just remind us what the mix is between Marcellus wet gas and dry gas and how much flexibility you have around that mix? Yes right now the target area for us is Marcellus wet gas.
We may do some testing and/or some acreage holding with a bit of that investment.
The majority of it is focused on the Marcellus wet gas at this point.
And let me just jump in and say that one of the reasons that it's the Marcellus wet gas is that's where your gathering systems are at.
Part of the dry gas area we have some gathering but we don't have all that we need so that's really later this year into next year to accelerate the dry gas part.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Investment Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
First thing I wanted to ask is just sort of a follow-up on what you've been discussing here today and that's the discussion of managing Southwest Appalachia liquids production by optimizing the production rate.
Is this to avoid condensation issues or is there something else involved? Just in general we don't think we have retrograde condensate or any of those kind of things.
In general what we want to do is maximize that downhaul energy you have to get as much liquids as you can to the surface and part of that has to do we call it jewelry but part of it has to do with the configuration of the well bore and the two being in the surface equipment.
And then part of it has to do with the drawdown pressure you have at the perforations where you're in a reservoir.
And so we are seeing some data that seems to indicate that's very important to manage that to keep that liquids from just dropping out in the well bore and then have a hard time getting it out.
And I know some other operators are seeing a little bit different things but today at least we're going to manage that direction.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And then my other question is in the press release I didn't see any discussion of upper Fayetteville or any other kind of stacked well tests.
Are these efforts still ongoing or are they slowing on budget restraint and concentration on the new acquisitions? No not for Fayetteville.
We've got 12 wells that we plan to drill and complete this year.
We've got 45 to date.
We've got three wells online in the quarter at 4.5 million cubic feet per day average with about a 3 Bcf EUR 3.1 Bcf EUR.
We'll continue those tests as we have planned to further understand that opportunity and add those wells to our economic inventory.
Okay great.
Well thank you for that color.
Congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Subash Chandra from Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
On the issue of frac optimization and lateral targeting and I think you mentioned that it's quite early days in West Virginia in that regard but some initial commentary maybe on how many potential targets you might see and how tight a target you're staying in in the areas and not just in here but Fayetteville and Northeast Appalachia and specifically if you think rotary steerables will be required or are being used currently.
Yes.
I think obviously it depends on where we're drilling or where we're completing and the rock quality.
But suffice it to say that what the teams are trying to do first I'll use Northeast Appalachia as an example.
We look at the full interval of say the lower Marcellus.
Over time and through experimenting and through other studies we've been able to determine where in that column of rock is best to land the well.
And then what we do to enhance that is they sort of subdivide that and you can narrow that down to an interval as narrow as 20 feet.
So the Marcellus rock thickness hasn't changed.
It's exactly where we landed them.
They are just trying to get tighter and tighter with that.
So on a 5500-foot lateral the team may have an objective of trying to get within a 20-foot interval in there to land the well.
And then through enhanced sand loading and some other techniques we are improving the frac quality of these wells and that's what's driving some of the performance.
Our new rigs have quite strong capability.
We've got an operation support center with geologists and engineers that are studying and are monitoring these live and helping steer the wells.
We're steering up with a lot more precision just as technology and then this operation support center continues to kick up and go and the results we're able to significantly improve the accuracy of what we're trying to achieve.
And these intervals are self  again the rock quality and the rock thickness hasn't changed.
These are self-imposed intervals to try to reach the optimum landing point.
As far as rotary steerables we do at times use rotary steerable but usually it's not necessarily to land in the zones because we have other geologic issue that's out there.
So we don't normally need do rotary steerables and I will mention that at least the wells we drilled to-date in West Virginia the Marcellus drills faster in West Virginia than the Northeast corner.
So part of that five days difference we talked about was the horizontal just going a little bit faster and we thought it was going to.
Okay.
Yes.
And I guess that was  is my follow-up as you get a better understanding of the mechanics in the Southwest Marcellus would you sacrifice at some point in time rate of penetration staying in zone tighter targeting do you think it's worthwhile to do that versus really targeting days to drill.
Do you think it would make a meaningful difference and I ask because I think this more in the Utica perhaps but there are operators out there spending quite a bit more to stay within eight feet and others targeting 40 feet believing that it doesn't really compensate for the cost I was curious what your initial thoughts there are.
We're very comfortable that going back to Bill's 20-foot or 10-foot or whatever we target you need to stay in zone it is  we'll sacrifice speed for staying in zone every time in every one of our areas.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You talked about 120 million at least for the moment of cost savings and that's in both the bucket of just general 2015 savings and then some of frac efficiency gains that we talked about already on the call.
I wondered if you could provide any further break down of what you think of the 120 would represent more cyclical service cost related items versus the secular benefits from the integration or the fracking completion efficiency.
Yes.
I can give you some general numbers about $75 million is really has to do with fracking efficiencies.
And so that is ongoing and will continue no matter what.
There's about $33 million that is cost savings and both of those have the potential to go up a little bit as we learn a little bit more but certainly that cost savings ones that we have more uncertainty about today.
And then there's about $12 million that is just tweaking the budget where we took a little bit out of midstream and we got to fine tune some numbers some other places and most of that is in a deferral category that is somewhere down the road you'd invest that capital anyway.
So of the $120 million about $75 million is ongoing every day savings.
Got it.
And that's a corporate-wide number that would include anything going in the Fayetteville as well is that correct? That is correct.
Okay great.
And then in your comments as well you mentioned optimism about getting adequate takeaway solutions for to source your growth coming out of Southwest Pennsylvania.
And I wondered if you could comment as to whether your midstream subsidiaries and midstream operations play a strategic role in boosting that confidence and where that stands in terms of the importance to the company.
I think kind of where your question is are we willing to invest in the midstream or is midstream going to do part of this thing? When we start with saying that midstream is always strategic and important to what we're doing and they are working every day on  pricing it's out there.
And one of the reasons we have confidence at least short-term that we can get firm and get it out to the right points is that working through our midstream and working with other companies we know there's some capacity out there that we can get to.
We're comfortable about 2015 soon to be comfortable about 2016.
And really the things that Bill talked about are 2017 and 2018 as we had some bigger pipe in there and we'll announce more about that later.
But we are real comfortable in 2015 and 2016.
Our midstream may very well be part of the capital that's invested and it could happen in a couple of different ways and we just have to look at it.
And again it's a financial decision and strategic decision.
And sometimes the financials overpower the strategy and some times the strategy overpowers the financials.
But we will certainly look at and you may see us invest more in the midstream in any of our assets that are out there.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning gentlemen.
My first question really regards what you're seeing on the cost deflation front.
I know you guys are pretty vertically integrated but I was wondering if you could just comment on what oil service cost deflation is doing to perhaps the breakeven cost of your gas in the Northeast.
I think from a  just a general response it doesn't do much to the breakeven cost.
It may move a $0.10 or $0.15.
It's not moving to $0.25 and $0.50 type numbers.
I'll let Bill talk a little bit more about the details and where we are seeing the cost break down.
But I'll just make a general statement.
The normal cost that you think about the drilling the fracking the tubular kind of costs that's only about 50% of the well and when people start talking about these numbers that's usually what they talk about.
That other 50% of the well is mainly labor and you're not seeing 30% to 40% decreases in labor.
You're seeing companies go out of business because they can't take 30% to 40% decreases in those costs.
So the end result of that even with big numbers on the other ones the ultimate effect of breakeven is not as much as you might think but Bill can talk about the various details.
Yes.
What we're seeing in cost reductions so far and we're out actually in the market working on a number of these at the moment.
So I can share more later.
But somewhere between 10% and 20% reductions really kind of across-the-board in terms of fracking in terms of drilling in terms of tubulars that we're seeing.
We actually are looking at bringing our own equipment into some of these areas where they tend to be a bit more sticky.
So we're moving some of our rigs to the Northeast to replace rigs that are under contract for example in Northeast Appalachia and those will begin drilling with our own rigs and you say you have a combination of our lower cost relative to outside parties and rigs that are specifically designed to really excel both in terms of speed movement and the ability to reach these long 10 000 and 12 000-foot laterals that we're at.
In our vertical integration areas and like in Fayetteville for example I think where we've taken out cost as third parties have left our businesses are utilized 100%.
But you'll see that we are already at those lower costs with our own performance.
So the savings have been built in over time.
I will comment on one thing around sort of that breakeven concept that you're talking about.
If we are able to take this new piloted frac design and implementation higher sand loading et cetera and the well performance comes up as much as it is happening to us and the stage facing is optimized that is a significant benefit to those wells and moves them quite down the cost curve the cost curves will take advantage down.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
The second question or final question is just regarding the Fayetteville.
What do you estimate at today's service cost would be the maintenance CapEx to keep that asset flat? And secondly and what is the gas price do you estimate where you generate free cash flow or that point of generating free cash flow for the Fayetteville? Well keeping production flat is a little more capital we're investing right now because we've got a little bit of decline built in this year in the Fayetteville numbers.
And this year we're roughly $550 million $560 million so somewhere around $600 million in that range $600 million to $625 million keeps it flat.
I forgot the other part of your question.
Just the gas price where it starts to generate free cash flow on a NYMEX basis? Again depends I assume you're saying if production was flat? Right.
Okay.
You need a mid-to-high three I don't want to say mid-to-high $3.60 to $3.70 somewhere in that range.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
And I won't say a lot here.
The quarter was strong production results.
Good basis differentials nearly balanced capital with its cash flow and performance in both our promises and our operations.
Certainly should give everyone a good indication of what the future looks like for us as we go down the road.
As I stated earlier expect from us to have better production with lower capital in 2015 and that's always good and it's always good for Southwestern Energy.
So with that I wish you a great weekend and we'll call it the end of this call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions.
Afterward you may feel free to re-queue for additional questions.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Mueller Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Operator.
And good morning and thank all of you for joining us today.
With me today are Bill Way our President and Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Sherrick Executive Vice President of Exploration and Business Development and Michael Hancock our Director of Investor Relations.
If you've not received a copy of this mornings Press Release regarding the second quarter 2015 financial operating results you could find a copy on our website at swn.com.
Also I would like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting the outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the forward-looking statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Security and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
I do not plan to spend much time reviewing the quarter results Bill and Craig can do that here in a few minutes.
Id like to briefly answer a few of the questions we received over the past few months.
The first question is about cost savings in 2015 and 2016.
The guidance from the press release reduced our original count of budget by $140 million while increasing our production.
Not all of that is cost savings but a big chunk is in 2016 well have larger relative savings because most of our third party agreements cover the entire year of 2016.
Bill will address this in more detail.
The second question is around capital efficiency and production growth in 2016.
Ive seen several outside projections for 2016 that shows Southwestern with a 25% to 30% outspend of cash flow assuming similar commodity prices to 2015.
Let me assure you and Ill state this more than once that will not happen.
We do not plan to outspend anywhere near 25% to 30%.
In fact investing only $1 billion in 2016 or 53% of the guided capital for 2015 provides a production growth of approximately 4%.
And creating capital of $1.4 billion grows company production 70% [ph] and every $200 million investment increment after that grows production approximately 2% incrementally.
The third question is about quality of our recent acquisition in Southwest Appalachian.
Bill will supply us on the operational details but we are already where we had hoped to be in 2017 in the Marcellus.
Well costs and days of drill match their acquisition assumption in 2017 and well productivity is higher and addition because of the relatively sparse drilling in the dry gas Utica we gave this loan very little value at the time of the acquisition the recent history drilling has given us confidence of high productivity in at least 1000 net acres.
The rapid learning in the Marcellus and the de-risking of the Utica by the industry has allowed us to accelerate the drilling of Utica in 2015.
The fourth question blends Pacific Southwest takeaways Southwestern Energy takeaway concerns from our new acquisition with a macro commodity prices.
The first part of the question challenges whether Southwestern can find takeaway we need and the second part has to do with delays and overall take away from the Appalachians.
As we will be covering more detail weve been able to add firm transportation along with firm sales to provide a very significant production growth in West Virginia over the next few years.
The answer to the second part of the question is critical on how you might want to think about investing in our industry.
Assuming NYMEX gas prices stay near current levels for an extended period of time we require several things but the most critical is an increasing U.S.
gas supply fuelled almost entirely by the Appalachian production.
That role for the Appalachian production can only be accomplished if the right pipelines are built on schedule.
Once built the inefficiency is creating todays Northeast basis issues will be eliminated and Northeast basis will narrow.
If we assume the projects will not be large enough or on time then Northeast basis issues may be stretched into the future but the Appalachian gas will not be able to completely answer the growing U.S.
demand.
In that case NYMEX prices will need to increase to match the longer term issues in the Appalachians.
In short those cases either Northeast basis narrowing or NYMEX prices increasing but not low.
Southwestern Energy is well positioned in either case as pipelines alleviate the Northeast basis our net backs increase on projects that are in the best part in the Northwest but Northeast Pennsylvania dry gas as well as the heart of Southwest Appalachian Marcellus and Utica plays.
Any delays in pipeline construction will have less effect on our production because weve already secured most of the firm needed to sell our gas at liquid sales points along various interstate pipelines.
In addition the Fayetteville shale that natural becomes a natural hedge hedge because it will supply between 40% and 50% of our total production at points they receive full benefits of any NYMEX price increases.
As I mentioned the answer to this fourth question also points to investment choices.
We believe the new pipelines will be constructed on time in the Northeast or NYMEX rise because of supply bottlenecks.
In either case Southwestern Energy is a logical gas investment when you consider operational track record and our uniqueness as a focus gas producer with three high quality assets unmatched by any other company in the industry.
Let me now turn the call over to Craig Owen so he can discuss our financial results.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
We had another quarter of strong results where we once again delivered on our promises by meeting or beating each of our guidance metrics excluding certain non-cash items the most significant of which was a 944 million ceiling test impairment we reported a net loss of shareholder to common stock of $9 million or $0.02 per diluted share for the second quarter compared to net income of $207 million or $0.59 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2014.
The mandatory convertible shares that we issued earlier in the year had the impact reducing our current quarter earnings by $0.07 per share due to the dividend Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities in the second quarter was $339 million compared to $579 million for the same period last year.
We realized an average gas price of $2.23 per Mcf during the second quarter including hedges and $1.76 per Mcf excluding hedges.
As a reminder all of our realized prices include the impact of transportation costs.
This quarter was no different than the past where we continued our focus on maintaining our low cost structure which is even more essential and the challenging price environment facing industry.
Our all in cash operating cost were approximately $1.24 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2015.
At June 30 2015 our total debt was approximately $4.5 billion down from $5.2 billion at March 31 2015 and included a combined 676 million borrowed under revolving credit facility and commercial paper program and providing liquidity of over 1.3 billion.
We continue our focus on returning the balance sheet towards the level similar to what they were before the Appalachian acquisitions and we have delivered on each of our de-leveraging steps we committed to during the acquisition and financing process and look forward to continued improvements driven by our assets and our capital discipline.
I am proud of the results we delivered this quarter and are very encouraged by the momentum we have created as we head into the second half of 2015.
I will now turn it over to Bill Way for an update for an update of our operational results.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
The second quarter was a strong quarter for us operationally.
We once again achieved record production and addressed our understanding on key operational aspects in each of our businesses all while maintaining our strict practice of closely watching every dollar we invest to ensure it being put to use to create long term shareholder value.
A common theme to our story over the years has been innovation in learning and this quarter was another example of our innovative culture and focus on creating value.
This innovation in learning has been a key component to among other things and new guidance we put out last night where we raised annual production guidance to 973 Bcf to 982 Bcf equivalent while reducing our capital investment estimates by $140 million down to $1.875 billion.
Looking ahead our work to secure new service contracts now for our key third party provided services will yield savings in excess of $150 million in capital for 2016 as we were able to secure 18 month contracts with our suppliers.
Ill now recap some of the highlights for the quarter from each of our divisions.
In Southwest Appalachia we are demonstrating some of the many reasons behind our excitement around adding this asset to our portfolio.
We are running three rigs in the area with the fourth one being scheduled.
We are already realizing well performance improvements and efficiencies ahead of schedule.
For the second quarter we had net production of 35 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent and the net exit rate for Southwest Appalachia was 416 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day an increase of 25% over the exit rate from the first quarter.
On the drilling side we were able to increase average lateral lengths by over 12% while reducing average drilling time to total debt by two days down to 17 days.
Additionally we drilled two wells with lateral lengths over 12 000 feet one of these a Southwestern Energy record for the longest lateral ever drilled while staying in our targeted zone 99% of the time which ranges above 10 feet to 15 feet in this area.
We also achieved a cost preferred to drill that is among the best in the region.
Current AFEs [ph] are now using cost estimates of $900 to $1100 per foot depending on lateral length.
The new rigs that have added to our fleet last year which include the latest technology are demonstrating their abilities in this new play.
These wells are in various stages of completion and we look forward to sharing the results with you as they become available.
Regarding completions we continued to improve on previous techniques used in the area.
For the wells that have been completed using South westerns completion methods weve seen a 35% increase in the EUR preferred over offset wells.
We are also managing draw down on new wells which is increasing condensate production by 20% or with the first 180 days.
This is a significant uplift to economics of the well lifting the PVI of the well by approximately 20%.
We remain encouraged by the industry results in the dry gas Utica immediately surrounding our acreage.
As a reminder we have the offsetting acreage from Rangers Sportsman [ph] Club 11H well that was brought online earlier this year with an IP of 59 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We also have acreage in multiple counties bordering Green County Pennsylvania where EQT announced their Scots Run well last week with an IP of 72 million cubic feet per day.
Our current plan is to drill our first Southwestern Operated Utica well later this year and plan to have the well online later this year or in early 2016.
Were making good progress in determining a plan for our dry gas gathering system in West Virginia which is needed for increased drive in Marcellus and Utica development.
We have completed an initial assessment and design for this project and we will continue to advance in pace with our development plans.
The marketing groups have been very busy over the last few months; first we signed an agreement with Colombia Pipeline Group adding 500 million cubic feet per day of firm transportation capacity combined on a Mountaineer Express and Gulf Express Pipelines.
This capacity is expected to be in service in 2018.
With this new agreement and the previous announced take away capacity we now have 800 million cubic feet per day of take away capacity for this asset at a weighted average reservation charge of approximately $0.60 per Mcf.
In addition to this new agreement the marketing team has also added firm sales to its portfolio as well.
Looking forward if we were to assume we grow our West Virginia asset production by 35% in 2016 and again in 2017 then we have already achieved our objective of covering our expected production with a firm capacity and/or firm sales for both 2016 and 2017 by at least 80%.
We continue to be engaged in discussions with a number of other counter parties for additional release capacity or firm sales opportunities for the longer term.
The marketing team also identified opportunities to improve net back for our condensate sales which has resulted in an uplift of $2.50 per barrel from the second quarter differentials beginning in August of this year.
This has been accomplished through greater market understanding and by segregating our condensate production by gravity to gain higher netback prices at each processing point.
Regarding NGLs like the rest of the industry our price realizations took a hit this quarter.
We expect overall NGL prices will begin to show improvement in the fourth quarter with additional export capacity coming on line in the Gulf Coast along with higher seasonal domestic demand.
In the meantime we will continue to optimize our liquid transportation and sales portfolio.
Weve hit the ground running from every angle on this new asset while we have been only operating less than seven months the improvement seen on well performance cost reductions and the expansion of firm transportation portfolio at economic rates are all ahead of schedule in many cases over a year or more and they have reconfirm the significant returns we envisioned when we purchased this asset.
In Northeast Appalachia the second quarter activity included a number of drilling records set by the company.
We drilled the longest lateral weve ever drilled in Northeast Pennsylvania at over 11 000 feet.
We also drilled our fastest Marcellus well today with re-entry to re-entry of just over four days.
All in the average time to drill in North Appalachia during the second quarter was less than nine days the lowest that number has ever been for a quarter at Southwestern.
Drilling in the Northeast Appalachia wasnt the only part of the operation was success during the quarter.
The completion team also continues to impress with their results.
The team is advanced our understanding of the rock in Northeast Pennsylvania and we think we are making great strides in determining how fast to complete these wells.
We continue to be encouraged by our test results surrounding stage phasing identifying optimal landing zones and proppant [ph] loading.
We are consistent in landing and keeping our wells in zone plus using high proppant loading per foot at least 2000 pounds per foot versus around 1400 pounds per foot in earlier years along with increasing our stage phasing.
Our typical proppant per stage is now 1 million pounds.
This revised completion design reduces the stage count for wells and lowers the average profit cost per pound.
As a result our well productivity which is the initial gas rate per PCI of drawdown has increased 260% over our earlier wells in the play due to these modifications.
After initiating these modified completions in early 2014 our 90-day cumulative production per well increased 42% over the 90-day period versus 2013 and it has continued to increase in 2014.
High curves with this completion strategy are well above earlier type-curves and the team is now experimenting with even higher proppant loading.
These frac optimizations coupled with service cost reductions have allowed us to reduce the investment in Northeast Appalachia by almost $100 million by retaining the same well count and improving production performance.
Our current AFEs for 5500 foot sea lat well are running $5.1 million per well versus $6.8 million during the fourth quarter of 2014 a 25% reduction.
While the development results are impressive for the division the delineation efforts in the quarter proved to be promising as well.
As mentioned in last nights press release we had encouraging results in Susquehanna County Tioga County and Lycoming County derisking additional acreage in those counties.
The Fayetteville wells delivered impressive results for the second quarter where our net production was 121 billion cubic feet of gas and increase of 6 billion cubic feet from the first quarter.
There appear to be some concern in the market about the decline in this asset back in the first quarter but as we said then weather impacts on the timing of wells coming on line was a big contributor to that decline.
This is evident with the strong production from those late first quarter wells showing up in the second quarter numbers.
As we look forward to the third and fourth quarter our expectation is for the completion count to be reduced that remained relatively constant and the Fayetteville Shale is plan to deliver a total of 7 to 10 bcf above our original 2015 plans.
Another example of the innovation that I mentioned earlier and a big reason for the strong production results this quarter is the effort of the team to find ways to increase production levels with reduced investment amounts.
Program is focused on well bore clean out compression at pad level and managed flow back on our wells is contributed to approximately 3 bcf of additional volume in the first six months of 2015.
With the rig count starting the year at 7 rigs the well count is a bit prop loaded in the Fayetteville Shale for 2015 and we have brought about 60% of the wells online for the year in the first six months.
Production is expected to decline a bit over the back half of the year as we complete running  we complete the year running four rigs in this core asset.
In closing were very proud of the operational momentum that weve built in the first half of 2015.
Weve been able to accomplish -- while weve enable to accomplish to sets us up extremely well for the second half of the year and for 2016.
The portfolio that weve assembled allows us the ability to deliver significant value even in times of low commodity prices and were remained committed to the financial discipline to support our balance sheet while delivering those results.
With the new Southwest Appalachia asset just beginning to demonstrate its potential Northeast Appalachia continuing its remarkable performance and the Fayetteville Shale still producing 3% of the nations gas.
The future is looking very strong for Southwestern Energy.
We look forward to sharing more exciting updates with you on our next call.
This concludes my comments.
So well turn it back over to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you.
Well now be conducting the question and answer session.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions.
Afterward you may feel free to re-queue for additional question.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Steve thanks for the color on the 2016 I guess sensitivity spending/growth sensitivity but I guess in this gas price environment logical kind of following question would be if your maintenance capital that is to hold flat has been reasonably below $1 billion which I think is the implication of 4% growth then why would you pursue growth in this environment if you can improve your debt adjusted metrics until gas prices improve.
Im just kind of a strategic question is about whats the incentive to grow in this gas environment and Ive got follow-up please? I dont know that theres an incentive grow.
Really the incentive is to invest wisely and get the returns youre looking for.
And as we talked about in the past return isnt based on one quarters pricing and its not based on one-year pricing.
For our wells its really based on four to five years of pricing.
And so a lot of it is your perception in the future and so let me talk a little bit about perception in the future.
Today were running $3 flat for this year and I think well in close to that range.
Next year $3.25 then $3.75 and then were going to $4 so and then $4 flat forever.
So thats the pricing were just to find our wells on.
And to the extent that we have wells that work within that environment it makes sense to drill.
Now the other thing let me just also address because part of that is why dont you delay it until prices get better.
Every time we do those calculations you have to be really bullish on prices to delay and by that I mean if you discount at 10% if I delay a well one year I have to be very certain that the price here from now is going to be 10% higher than is today.
Every time we look at it we havent been that certain or might think it maybe that way and I just told you some numbers that showed you not quite 10% next year.
We cant pound on the table so well take our best guess of the future well drill what looks like economic and if there happens to be growth therell be growth.
And if its happen to $1 billion of capital budget a $1 billion capital budget if its 1.4 its 1.4 or whatever numbers it comes to.
I appreciate the answer maybe just a quick follow-up on that.
What well determine yield at 42% net debt to capital right now so what will determine your ultimate spending level next year is that debt metrics or living within cash flow how would you characterize it? Well weve got a formula that says were going to widely invest within our cash flow.
So in any given year we try to invest as best we can within cash flow.
Some years its a little more difficult than others especially if you start the year at one price and second I think lower by the end of the year.
But going back I think where youre going is how closer were going to be at cash flow.
Figures within $150 million of cash flow next year with the best estimates we can do of cash flow.
So Ill try to do balance but it may not quite work that way.
Okay.
Thanks.
And my follow-up which I hopefully is quick Im sure [Indiscernible] questions on Southwest Appalachia but just based on the relatively limited information youve got with the one well youve drilled you operated yourself.
Are you  is it still too early to take another look at what the ultimate resource/location kind of look likes in your acquired properties or is that something we should wait for in future quarters now.
Ill leave it there thanks.
I dont think its so much a resource issue.
The resource I think weve got a good handle of whats in the ground.
And then youve got the question of what your recovery factors going to be within that resource? Its more how much [Indiscernible] with the investing.
If we can get more out of these wells you drill actually fewer wells to get the same amount out of the ground.
So thats the way Im leaning more today but going back to the initial part of your question its early so we just have to watch this for a while.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Our next question is from the line of Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your questions.
Yes.
Hi Steve.
Thanks again for providing that guidance on 2016 just some follow-up there.
If I think about flexibility in that capital budget is there  should I think about the Southwest Marcellus has been relatively fixed because of the rig accretion that youve got it towards through 2017 so that the 4% growth would be almost entirely Southwest Marcellus driven and anything above that youd start layering in Fayetteville and Northeast Marcellus? And if thats not the case could you just help me out on picturing the regional contribution to growth? Yes.
I think that is not the case.
The thing that will drive us for next couple of years anyway would be the Northeast Pennsylvania.
And we think we can run roughly three rigs and basically get the growth we need for the company any kind of growth would have in the company from that stand point.
I think youre correct in the sense that Fayetteville is little bit of swing area.
And let me just give you a little bit of color.
I said $1 billion I mean growth of the company 4% and you mentioned kind of the variable piece of that.
But fixed part of that is you got to remember on any of these case we have we were very conservative.
We use roughly $350 million of capitalized G&amp;A in interest and so when you take that capitalization now youre talking about $1 billion cases of less than $700 million that youre investing in.
And thats a three rig total case.
We just assume one was running in Southwest Virginia.
One was running in Fayetteville.
One was running in Northeast and that gave us a 4%.
Obviously if youre doing $1 billion we may not do as much in Fayetteville and drop in Fayetteville do more in the Northeast actually get a higher number on it.
So the numbers we gave you were numbers that were very comfortable we can hit and our fully loaded numbers.
Okay great.
And my follow-up is in the Northeast Marcellus if thats the driver but its also gets the lowest realizations is your view that that is going to change in the intermediate term or is it that despite the serious differentials and low netbacks you still economic on efficiencies? I think its all about economics.
Ill keep saying that.
If we didnt think it was economic we wouldnt do it.
But I think theres also misconception about netbacks in various areas.
Really the netbacks for our West Virginia properties netbacks in the northeast on the gas side wont that much different this quarter.
And so the West Virginia has all the things to go with the liquids part and how much is liquids and what you doing with NGLs but when you look at year-over-year it similar between last year and this year for the second quarter.
And when we look at comparing the first and second they are very similar year-over-year and the Northeast and very similar in the Northwest the numbers we saw last year.
So as we said in the past the debates always been was 2014 worst year or 2015 worst year for the summer.
It looks like theyre going to be about equal.
And then as more pipeline gets put in place end of this year into 2016 you should see a better 2016 and better 2017 from there.
So either place has the challenge and in either case were investing to get a return not to get growth.
That helps.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Scott Hannold with RBC.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Steve can you give a little color on some of those longer lateral wells that you drilled the 12000 foot laterals and what kind of productivity did you see from those.
Is that sort of the trend you want to kind of continue down the path? And if you look at the data you all provided on your press release there was one well that was on for 60 days that produced over  it looks like 9 million a day was that one of those longer lateral wells? Ill let Bill kind of address those questions.
Yes.
The two 2 000 foot wells that weve drilled we dont have on  they are in the process of being completed so we havent gotten any upgrade there yet.
If you look at the Robert Short well that we drilled is a 7700 foot lateral and our average is kind of  was about 7500.
We loaded that up quite a bit with sand at the higher level about 2000 pound per stage.
It is really look like is on track to be a 15 Bcf well and I think its attributed to landing zone attributed to sand loading and attributed to how steer that well through the interval that were trying to drill at.
In the Marcellus we have also had some fairly strong result by these long laterals and I think that the improvement overall in productivity from the wells I dont have it off the top of my head the number I can get here in a second.
The improvement over previous wells because of how we steered those and how weve  lot of those were sand has been pretty strong.
Were really about  were running on top of the wells that we produced in the last 18 months or so.
Were running on top of our historical numbers and our historical 10 Bcf curve.
And let me just say one thing here.
Those 12000 foot laterals are on a several well pad.
Those were first two wells on that pad.
So we probably wont even have those completed until towards the end of third quarter.
So we may have some information for you during the third quarter but it just happens that its one of those biggest pads are on.
They should come on in November each timeframe.
Okay.
So your acreage geometry though on general like is it a minimal to doing longer laterals or are these more exceptions? In West Virginia theres no pooling provisions so its whatever acreage you can put together.
We will try to do longer laterals but what we built in to our original acquisition and were still using our plans about 7500 foot average.
There will be some wells will be smaller unit you just cant put the acreage together right and these 12000 that we can get the acreage together correct And I think the other piece of that is that probably for the balance of this year the majority of the wells that we will drill will be wells that were committed previously and so its about 130 days to permit wells so were building an inventory of those and well obviously shift to the longer one as that we can.
Okay.
Understood.
And as a follow-up question the southwest Appalachian can you remind us what your current firm capacity to produce today and how much are you getting on interruptible at this point in time so I just trying to figure all the progression of like where you at now versus say where you are into 2016? Yes.
Weve got today weve got about just under 200 million a day of firm capacity.
Remember these wells that come on theres a big chunk of that thats liquids.
And then weve got some additional firm sales that round that all out in total.
And that number grows rather significantly through 2017 as we add on additional capacity.
Today when you get to 2016 14% of our takeaway capacity is through firm transportation 60% of that is through firm sales and then as we move into 2017 those reversed themselves.
And so were able to move through firm and through firm interruptible all the volume that we produced.
Let me add two there Scott just everyone understands.
We said we are doing 400 million day equivalent but our actual gross production is probably about 250 million day so its very little being sold in the daily markets than what we have today.
The other thing Ill just add we will have a new investor relations book out probably within the next three or four days.
That book will have a schedule for West Virginia separated out and then for Northeast PA separated out.
You can see exactly what notches we have left and what that curve looks like all way out to 2020 and beyond.
Thats very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning guys.
Steve just looking more on the Southwest PA plans youve obviously had that initial success.
What your though as far as drilling location and you obviously have the acreage clear down to up shire down there.
So if you could just maybe first of all talk about how you plan to delineate that position? Weve got our well location number is anything going up overall as we continue to drill in these areas and work through this weve continue to add to that portfolio.
Our HBP positions greater than 55% right now and so we will do some acreage capture wells but mostly be in a place where were building right with the 46 wells that we planned to do this year.
And the majority of our works in Brooke and Ohio County and Marshal County between those three counties there is 36 of the 46 wells that well put online but we will continue to test and pick up and hold acreage with one of the  part of the one of the rigs.
As I said earlier weve got two there now well have a third one here before long and part of one of those rigs will hold any acreage that were required to hold this year.
Let me add to that the wells were drilling today were designed to learn and we thought it was going to take a fairly long time to get up to speed with what the rest industry is doing.
So we want to drill on pads that have other wells we can compare against to those kind of things.
That has accelerated.
Well learn the Utica and thats why were moving the Utica forward.
And then as we look into 2016 the mix of the well  well still drill some wells to hold acreage but the mix of the wells is not set at all yet.
And originally we thought that 2015 would be Marcellus learning 2016 would be Utica towards the end of 2016 we could make some decisions about mix and were into 2017 thats all forward.
So I dont know what is going to look like in the future.
I can tell you today thats based on learning and the permits that we had and then as we learned more about the overall acreage we can talk about well counts and where exactly were drilling and what years and how were doing that.
And we got to deliver a plan that is already underway to accelerate permitting across the areas to give us that flexibility where we can move around.
And remind me what takeaway again I know in other areas you continue to build that I know youve talked about deciding which way to do that again with all these wells coming on whats your thoughts on how closely you build to ramp that takeaway there? We will have as I said in my comments we will have for 2016 and 2017 80% of our production assuming that we were growing at a say a 35% rate but 80% of our production covered by firm transportation or firm sales on transport that is held by those buyers.
Thats already done  that work is already finished.
So as we ramp from 46 wells or so this year to probably similar number next year and then on up from there were designing our development program and our gathering of transportation kind of an interim process to have both of them grow or be able to grow if thats what we choice to invest.
And then with your question local next few years or what are we trying to grow to maximum.
Yes.
I guess that was the second  the second part of that just kind of maximum is there sort of cap longer term or just kind of longer term what are you looking to grow to? Weve already got over 800 million a day signed up through once  by the time you gets in 2019 or late 2018 weve got more than 800 million a day signed up.
One of things that were trying to do is sort of get to the initial surge of that 800 to 1 billion a day watch the market make sure the pipeline gets build where we want them build so that we can continue to ramp and then watch as this 10 to 15 Bcf of transportation comes online where we fully expect that the cost of transport on that will moderate from the dollar-ish number that it is today with 20-year back down to a bit more of the geographic differential representative rate.
And well look to layer on at that point.
We intend to take our residue gas production again this is  lot of this is liquids gas liquid rich gas but our residue gas production by late 2018 to 2019 from the 200 million a day or so is today well beyond 800 million a day.
And again we have firm longer term than that I think as we understand the Utica better as we understand increased potential well be looking to increase that number even further on a pretty growth rate trajectory.
I dont think any of our plans have changed we talked about in the past that ultimately I think theres over 2 Bcf a day that we will be taking out of this acreage.
So the real question is we go to 1 Bcf a day look at the landscape and then we decide if we need to commit the more those are the capacity out there but the ultimate number in the early 20120s is a lot higher than that 800 Bcf a day.
And I guess are you all continuing to block up acreage I know you have a lot contiguous positions already.
Are you limited yet at this point on how long those laterals you can draw  you can drill out? Were definitely blocking up acreage.
There's -- the smaller tracks have not been pickup by anybody and as you clean up those units that makes that theres 20 to 7500 in the 1200 foot and well continue to doing that.
Very good.
Thank you all.
Great details.
Our next question is from the line of Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Question on the ceiling test impairment was that driven by oil price NGL price or natural gas price? Yes.
Okay.
Ill put in general perspective it was kind of unusual impairment compared to 2012 we had impairment 2012 like I can tell you its all coming Fayetteville Shale took so many projects off the books.
What actually happens here was when we look at our quarterly reserve we look them today versus beginning of the year the actual reserve numbers very similar.
But what happen more as we loss PV value and what was going on the biggest area that we loss PV value in it really drove most of it was a Fayetteville Shale.
And so what I expect what will happen going into the next quarter looking at the prices that we have so far will probably take another write down and we may actually start think some wells drop off the books.
But today weve got plenty of reserves we just have less PV and it was mainly Fayetteville Shale.
Okay.
But the fact that its NGL and oil means a little of it hit in Southwest Appalachia [ph]? Yes.
There was  the next biggest one is actually Southwest Appalachia and West Virginia assets and it broke out it was little over 70% Fayetteville Shale 20 some percent in the West Virginia high 20s less Virginia and little bit in Northeast PA.
And then on just a pure like a reserve PV-10 takeaway we did sale those assets too so theres a little of that but its really Fayetteville Shale.
And on your takeaway strategy it sounds like youre trying to balance the expectation that reversals and new pipe drops the price but at the same time you want to control your destiny but at what point how fast the asset can grow and then will you have to commit to take away? With what we see today it look to us by the time you get to 2018 there is actually over built in almost every facet whether its the NGLs processing the gas takeaway it didnt matter which one of those.
As we get little bit closer we can tell that actually is going to be overbuilt.
If its overbuilt than you really dont care if you have firm because theyre competing to your product whatever their product is.
And so we may understand the next few months or next six months whether well wont be able to built but my guess is thats more decision mid-next year to understand how that works.
But if the pipeline as everyone says that theyre going to get built today and if the rigs stay in the same general rig count that they have today it looks like theres a couple of Bcf a day gas that can go into pipelines that you dont need to have firm for.
And youd rather take a hit on one or two years of bad differential than signed up for 20 years of bad differential? Thats exactly right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question is from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead your questions.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
If the enhanced completion in the landing zone optimization you tested in Southwest Marcellus applicable to the rest of Southwest Pennsylvania it sounds it is and is it consistent with what you are doing already in Northeast PA and Fayetteville simply different from what the prior operator was doing? Or there are also implications on recovery rate and well economics in those other regions? Were sharing this knowledge across the whole company I mean the work started actually in Northeast Pennsylvania in earnest looking and trying to optimize landing zones.
Then we began  once weve figured that out we began unloading with sand.
Theyve gotten to a 2000 pound per foot sand loading and theyre going to test it a bit higher.
We moved some of these people to West Virginia and immediately leapfrog the time to learn and began 2000 to as much as 2500 pounds of sand per foot same concept around figuring out where the optimum landing zone was.
We had a number of wells that were already drilled that we can theoretically re-steer and try to figure out what might have happened with those.
The timing zone with technology changing and these new rigs that we have and the adaptation of rotary steerable and some other tools to help steer our wells were able to stay in zone in a virtually 100% of the time in a very narrow window that when you do all these three things and we havent quite figured out which ones the largest contributor because theyre all  they all are doing that.
Were seeing that the application to add to that that learning is down there as well.
In fact some of our future wells will test sand loading even higher than weve done so far.
And then you can take that very learning and take to the Fayetteville and just over the last year weve doubled the sand concentration with improved steering and staying in zone and some metric and looked at landing zones and those wells also have had some benefit from that.
So little earlier to tell in there because we are doing some [Indiscernible] flow backs and that sort of thing that its really a key for us to network and share these learnings across the area so we think that with the exception of liquid rich gas which has some different characteristic potential on steering  I mean not on steering but on stage phasing these techniques are transferable across our divisions.
Great.
Thanks.
And then shifting to the takeaway side you highlighted in a press release the transport costs associated would be now 800 million a day of contracts to get gas out of Southwest PA are about $0.60 MMBtu.
Do you have a sense based on the markets where you would be dropping off that gas? What the local basis would be versus Henry Hub or trying to compare that to your guidance for transportation plus basis on a company what basis for $0.15 or $0.75 to $0.85 and where this 800 million a day would end up out a few years? Today the combined kind of prices doesnt matter if its northeast or is it new acquisition is right at $0.30 transportation.
And so  and adding Rover and adding Columbia Gas piece to average to get up to $0.60 and  but we cant go into much more details about those because in the case Columbia Gas with that confidential [ph] agreement so we cant do that.
But our target for a lot of what were trying to do is to get gas back into the Mid-Atlantic and so even the well Columbia Gas we can get some of the gas back to all of that to Gulf Coast we will be dropping it off at various places along the way to get into those markets that are there.
So I cant tell the local market.
All I can say for instance Columbia gas as five or six major takeaway points and we can go into almost any one of those.
And then the other pipe that we have whether its Northeast PA or wherever else we have has a similar type plans where we have three or four five things.
In general were trying to go east and south not so much north and west in what we're trying to do.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Dave Kissler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Real quickly just to kind of clean up on the transport portion of things in the firm capacity and firms sales for 2015 and for 2016 obviously covering 80% is a pretty significant uptick from what you guys had shared previously.
Can you talk a little bit about the pricing related to that here in the next call it year and a half? Until Columbia Gas or Rover come online that $0.30 number Im using a day is a good number.
Okay.
And first one of those comes on late next year.
Okay.
Got it.
Helpful.
And then looking at the new guidance obviously NGL production was significantly higher than the prior guidance and you had a pretty significant NGL beat back in Q1 as well and Q2 here.
Can you talk a little bit about what youre doing in terms of trying to reduce the volatility around the realizations there and the reduced margins that youre seeing as a result of the pressure on NGL prices? Expect for little things and Bill mentioned couple of in his conversation were breaking NGLs in more grades and sell each individual grade really and trying to sell NGL on a blended type thing.
There arent a whole lot options short term so its really year and a half to two years down the road or in the case of winners when you get a higher price for propane or whatever youre doing in that direction.
So this is just the  one issues that I think the whole industry is going to going to have here for a while until we can get better take away into better parts of the industrial system for different parts or the world.
Now there are some things we trying to do in the marketing side especially with how we are dealing with [Indiscernible] and NGLs and Ill let Bill talk a little bit about that.
Yes one final comment on the NGLs less ethane under our contracts today the process or markets close for us.
We do have options for taking kind and we are looking at that kind to better understand what we can do there.
On Ethane as Steve mentioned we have more ethane capacity pipeline capacity than we need to the Gulf Coast and so what we are doing is actually maximizing ethane recovery and doing some additional allocations of ethane recovery to take our recovery percentage theoretically to 100% and then we are buying some additional ethane or having it allocated to us that goes beyond that so that we can fill up our ethane capacity which stands right now I think at about 24.500 [ph] barrels a day and take those Btus to the Gulf Coast A we get  we cover the demand charges associated with that capacity and B on a Btu basis that ethane on the Gulf Coast is worth about $2.37 per MBtu at the Gulf Coast versus leading a chunk of it in the gas stream up Northeast where the differentials are challenged.
And so we do a better cost recovery we do a bit upgrade of ethane and then we do a bit of third party capture.
So well keep doing that.
Our ethane capacity rises through the time period and well watch that and go back and forth from that.
Thank you.
Appreciate Well that just goes back to my comment there is some little things we can do but NGL prices are going to be challenged.
Okay appreciate that and one last one just as we look at your increase of location count in the Northeast you also shared results from the Lepley 6H well and the John Good 14H well can you talk a little bit about what those might do for increasing location count or adding locations to the development portfolio on a longer term basis? I think in Tioga for the Lepley well its probably a little early to decide just how many locations we have.
Weve actually got pipelines to build and actually be able to flow gas a bit longer and drill around the net area.
But the well economics looks solid and so we are very optimistic about those wells.
In the North range area or Northern Susquehanna County weve probably added 35 to 50 additional wells locations because weve been able to prove that up.
And then I think as you get into Lycoming County with the John Good well and very encouraging.
I dont have an exact well count number increase but probably several dozen more I would think.
And let me talk a little bit about Tioga just for a second.
The Tioga block there is actually a couple of thoughts around the process so weve had just over 20 000 acres.
We think that roughly in the one fault block establishes about half that acreage is good and then well have some other drilling later this year that will test that as a fault block.
It should be good because its between Lepley and Lycoming but because its a fault block thats goes back to Bills comments we dont know the exact number yet but lets say half of that 20 000 acres is a pretty good range.
Great.
I appreciate those clarification thanks so much guys.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi I was wondering if you could provide any context around the progress youve made securing a dry gas gathering solution for your Southwest Appalachia acreage? Yes our original and our intent was to put together a dry gas solution with our midstream unit and they have gone through the first phase of designing that gathering system and looking at where that gathering would be delivered into various delivery points along the transport lines that weve gotten available.
We have our first task at what that system looks like and an estimate what it will cost.
We have challenged the midstream group to continue to finalize that.
We want to have a solution nailed down by the end of the year which is about the timing that weve been working on so far this year; originally we had in fact again talked about doing this in 2018 so were trying to accelerate it.
I think well be in a good shape to do that.
Well then look at third party options to see both whether they make more or less sense its all about the economics in this case results or about strategy of how fast we can grow nimble we can be or a combination of those two and we just havent worked through the post structure details yet but we will have that as part of that dialogue by the end of the year.
And let me just jump in.
Theres a lot of things that have moving parts to them.
One of them frankly was the Colombia gas system.
That system goes right through the middle of our acreage.
That is a potential takeaway if we wouldnt have received that we would have been on a different path today.
So part of the decisions we now did what we need on the Colombia gas would send us on another course and now we know what we need to build and how to build it and so we just got a good talk to these third parties.
So weve been making progress but the thing is other things have to fall in place before you can get to the final of what you were trying to do.
And the dry gas of course you have multiple delivery point options which can optimize how the investment is put together versus our wet system.
Okay thats helpful.
And just lastly given the challenged NGL pricing environment that you discussed earlier do you feel comfortable about your flexibility on allocating capital between wet gas and dry gas drilling next year in Southwest Appalachia? I'm not sure feel comfortable is quite the right answer but we certainly have some options the ideal way as Bill said earlier youd like to have permits everywhere youd like to have pipelines everywhere and that really can  on a dime go one spot to the other spot.
We still have some things we want to learn we dont have all the pads that we need to build a special on the dry gas side.
We do have some dry gas takeaway and so we have options and again lets just assume we drilled roughly 50 wells next year.
We drilled 50 wells and we want to drill 20 plus wells and dry gas and we could do that but we couldnt do 50 and dry gas.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question is coming from the line of Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning everyone.
Really appreciate the sensitivity provided on spending for 2016.
I was hoping if you would give us a sense of how much that growth of being benefitting from spending in 2015 or put it another way could you spend a similar amount to the numbers you gave in 2017 and have similar growth in 2017? I think the general answer is the Bcfs would be similar but your growth rate wouldnt be similar because you are going off a bigger rate.
So if you invested $1 billion and grew 4% in 2016 you have invested in the same month 70 I dont know the exact number but I guess its half about 2% growth so thats the only difference.
The actual Bcfs shouldnt change the quality of the wells are the same and you are drilling the same number of wells of [Indiscernible] Okay thats very helpful Steve.
And as far as Uticas if you are pleased with this first test how quickly can you re-direct capital to the Utica from the Marcellus and are there any significant impediments to really ramping up activity there in 2016? And that goes back to the dry gas system Its just gathering.
Yes just gathering would be your issue.
Okay all right.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question is from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning and Steve that was really helpful.
Can you remind us about your annual midstream CapEx and your longer term plan; I know there is some third party versus in sourcing dry gas moves [ph] but rough numbers would be helpful.
Yes the numbers I gave you its $1billion and $1.4 billion assumed that our midstream company was not building out any major systems so its maintenance capital and its about $40 million.
Okay.
And in perspective this year is about $80 million so it would be about half in the future.
Thats helpful.
And then just thinking about your maintaining the focus on being an investment grade rated company can you talk about in a downside or in your base case how or what debt governors you have.
I know you don't have a reserve base borrowing line I mean just trying to think about the balance sheet and kind of commodity price and cash flows and kind of what governors they are on maintaining those ratings? David this is Craig Owen.
Youre right.
We dont have any triggers or governors in the credit facility or anything like that that lend themselves.
What does limit us is what Steve mentioned earlier investing within cash flow or close to cash flow in value creating projects.
So as we move forward and kind of the plans as we exit 2015 and into 2016 is our balance sheet will be getting better and its on a ramp to substantial improvement probably not quite were happy where we were before the acquisition but getting close by the end of 2017 so we are looking at on a ramp of even it stretched your pricing certainly pushing down our metrics debt-to-EBITDA whatever you may look at but nothing that would limit us from our capacity and our facility or anything like that.
And do you think about  sub $3 gas what happens on a trailing 12-month EBTIDA multiple or any sort of just internal management governors beyond just what the credit agencies think about? Yes you kind of process that with the lowest number you wanted us to do Yes thats up $3 I mean you are using $3.
Were not in a roughly say over the next three years or 350 old all of the metrics get worse from a whether its a balance sheet metric or a credit metric or something.
And you are going to honker down capacity in the $3.
So we are really pleased with the $3 for an extended period of time we would already be at the $1 billion capital budget or anything less and we would our debt metrics would start creeping up on us and there wouldnt be much we could do about that on a metric standpoint.
Yes even at an $8 cash or capital program your debt may be coming down with free cash flow but your metrics in terms of [Indiscernible] But you guys are in a better position than peers given the unsecured facility and your midstream system.
I was just thinking about bigger picture like for the industry it seems like there is some fundamental issues if you run something lower than your Again were investment grade today.
Two of the rating agencies were within all the parameters one rolling just on one so were ahead of almost anyone in the industry from that standpoint and if it was less than three from an extended period of time we wouldnt be the ones you were having to worry about there will be lot other people you are worried in that case.
Okay thanks guys.
Good color.
Our next question is from the line of Sameer Uplenchwar with GMP.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning guys and congrats on another great quarter.
Steve I also like the new swan prism on the presentation.
Following up on the earlier question you highlighted like the lower maintenance CapEx and Im just trying to understand how much of that I mean operationally you are doing great but how much of that is also lower service cost and if commodity prices do move higher whats the flex in that in that maintenance capital if service cost move higher? Yes and youre talking about 2016 numbers we talked about.
Yes.
What we assumed in these numbers was about $50 million of savings on the service cost side and Bill said that we think its about 150 now.
The point in time when you measure that becomes a little tricky because you got some this year and we are debating that internally.
Its not the whole 150 million we compare 15 versus 16 and we just said put 50 in and we know its at least 50 to go from there.
So that was the assumption for the  2016 and that was whatever case $1 billion or $1.4 billion it just had $50 million of savings.
So thats what you are risking.
Got it.
And then on the gas macro front and its not just you but everybody in Appalachia seems to be that asset continues to outperform expectations and how does I mean you have discussed 350 gas but how does that change the long term view of supply demand dynamics and on a near term basis you have added take away and from sales but what about financial hedging how are you thinking about that on both those? Okay.
On a macro picture let me kind of hit that very quickly.
I want to go back and quickly compare 2012 to today.
If you look at the first six months of 2012 pricing versus todays pricing we were this year about $0.10 higher than 2012 all the way through.
And thats because weve added over 3 Bcf a day of demand year-over-year between 2013 and in 2014 and 2015 and weve added over 4 Bcf a day of total demand between 2004 [ph] and today.
The demand picture gets steeper over the next three years so its not  you can't just talk about the supply and getting better wells you have to talk about both sides.
Today the rig count is down and across the entire Appalachians and so it would take a significant Id say significant add 20 or 30 rigs in Southwest PA or northeast or a combination of those relatively soon not to have that supply and demand hold back together and have an upward pressure on prices.
So the combination of those two and the question all the time the big Utica wells what they are going to do for the future.
Everyones got the same gas pipeline takeaway issue and so its more if its a problem average [Indiscernible] its not a near term problem from that perspective.
They certainly will drill more wells revolve that gas take away issues there.
Then as far as the hedging standpoint I think you talked about even financial hedges as you go through Ill let Craig talk a little bit  little bit more on the hedge unit and what were doing next month.
Yes certainly Sameer as we move into 2016 were just looking for opportunities and historically youve heard Steve and the company talk about getting towards a longer term target of 375 [ph] and $4 and look for opportunities there.
At current pricing we see a lot more opportunity on the upside and downside for the macro reason Steve indicated but you are right typically we do try to add in more hedges than well look to get the 43% [ph] possibly and you remember on the midstream cash flow thats rate base so thats kind of a natural hedge and of itself bringing in a million or so in any given year.
Got it.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Matthew Russell with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Actually most of my questions have been answered but one quick one on midstream take away.
It is understandable that you would want to avoid gain loss into too many contexts and maintain flexibility especially with what some of your peers are facing.
To what extent have the discussions with the midstream companies expanded to more dynamic contracts maybe commodity length pricing and can you talk a little bit about how thats growing? I dont think theres been any discussions about any of that to tell you the truth at least not anything that I know about.
Yes the only part of that that has ever happened with us is in our Northeast Appalachia area but we have auctions basically that can let you lay off transport capacity if you didnt need it but weve not exercised any of those but otherwise its pretty straightforward.
Got it.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing comments.
Thank you.
I think we spend a lot of time talking about commodity prices along with our operations today.
And like everyone wish the commodity prices were higher but unlike everyone I think the discussions there you saw we are developing some very unique assets and Ive got some very unique opportunities that we think we are working on the same price environment and weve tried to design our company to do that working in a low price environment and as I said before we are not worried about growth but we are worried about doing good investments and getting good returns.
I think that the whole scenario is demonstrated in our second quarter results.
Weve already seen opportunities from new acquisitions on both the development of Marcellus and Utica and Northeast Pennsylvania continues to get better and we continue to add locations and the Fayetteville shale continues to surprise to the upside.
Most important though I think we are answering those questions that the analyst community has had and the investment communities had about our assets and about what we can do and what we have shown is that as we answer those we continue to create unmatched value plus.
It remains an exciting time for us.
We thank you for joining the call today and have a great rest of the week.
Thank you.
This concludes the teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions.
Afterward you may feel free to re-queue for any additional questions.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Steve Mueller Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
Thank you.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you and good morning and thank all of you for joining us today.
With me today are Bill Way our President and Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Executive Vice President of Exploration and Business Development; and Michael Hancock our Director of Investor Relations.
If youve not received a copy of this mornings press release regarding third quarter 2015 financial and operating results you could find a copy on our Web site at swn.com.
Also Id like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the Risk Factors and the forward-looking statement sections of our annual and quarterly filings with the Security and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
These are challenging times in our industry.
Whenever I see fellow industry management we always begin the discussion with comments about how weve seen tough times in the past and how well make it through these tough times as well.
What is understood but not said is that we also received many scars in the past tough times and well have many more before the cycle is finished and even deeper but unspoken understanding is that not all of our organizations will actually survive these times.
So why start a quarterly call with this conversation when Southwestern Energys results were strong compared to consensus expectations? Very simply we have designed the company and well continue to evolve what we do to make sure we are not just a survivor but one of the winners who have been toughened rather than weakened by these current times.
You might be thinking many of the companies say similar things so what is our evidence that Southwestern has the right characteristics to flourish? First look at the quarter results and our results from the past many quarters.
We have delivered on what we said were going to do and as youll hear in this call we are positioned to keep delivering.
Second those results could not have been accomplished without discipline.
Our low cost structure is part of the evidence combined with our focus on investing every dollar wisely.
It is easy to track that discipline if you have the data and thats the reason we publish tables every quarter Investor Relations materials following our progress with actual production and cost information.
We began reporting the first generation of that data in the Fayetteville Shale 10 years ago and well continue that transparency in the future.
Discipline also relates to the capital budget.
Last quarter we guided our 2015 budget down from approximately $2 billion to $1.875 billion.
And even though drilling times are improving we will not exceed that guidance in 2015.
Third while we may have an opinion about the direction of oil and gas prices we will manage if prices are lower for longer for both commodities.
Like many management teams we are wrestling with several uncertainties in 2016 and probably will not give 2016 guidance until after the first of the year.
The one thing I can confirm about 2016 is our absolute focus on investing within cash flow.
Finally and probably the most important point is the significant upside has been added to each of the Southwestern Energys three assets during the quarter.
Bill will go into more details but we drilled economic extensions in Northeast Pennsylvania that have added both quantity and quality to our well inventory.
In addition the best wells ever drilled in the Fayetteville Shale area were completed in third quarter and in our West Virginia assets our estimate of the recoverable resources have increased more than 5% in roughly 10 months since the acquisitions.
Times are difficult but Southwestern is up to the challenge.
Let me now turn the call over to Craig Owen so he can begin the more detailed discussion of our quarterly results.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
We met or exceeded each of our guidance metrics provided to the Street as we continue to deliver operationally and focus on improving margins in this challenging commodity price environment.
Excluding certain non-cash items the most significant of which was a $1.7 billion net of tax ceiling test impairment.
We reported net income attributable to common stock of 3 million or $0.01 per diluted share for the third quarter compared to 178 million or $0.50 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2014.
The mandatory convertible shares issued earlier in the year had the impact of reducing our current quarter earnings by $0.07 per share due to the dividend.
Our cash flow from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities in the third quarter was 330 million compared to 504 million for the same period last year.
We realized an average gas price of $2.21 per Mcf during the third quarter including hedges and $1.77 per Mcf excluding hedges.
As a reminder all of our realized prices include the impact of transportation costs.
We have been diligent on our cost control focus which has always been a differentiator for the company.
Our all-in cash operating costs were approximately $1.22 per Mcfe in the third quarter of 2015.
At September 30 2015 our total debt was approximately 4.7 billion with over 1.2 billion in liquidity available.
Our debt balance included a combined 800 million borrowed under the revolving credit facility and our commercial paper program.
We remain committed to flexing our capital investment program in 2016 to keep debt at or below its current level.
We have no plan to issue additional equity and expect to manage through this cycle by flexing our capital investment program and potentially utilizing non-core asset sales.
When meeting with investors we often receive questions related to our investment grade rating.
Based on recent feedback from the rating agencies and our intent to flex our capital program within cash flow we are comfortable with both our rating and rating outlook.
That wraps up the financial update for the third quarter.
We are in a challenging environment and our extremely focused on improving our financial performance as we close 2015 and prepare for 2016.
Ill now turn it over to Bill Way for an update of our operational results.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
Once again we had a strong operational performance in the third quarter.
In addition to delivering another quarter of record production we continue to find ways to benefit from our curiosity and innovation and cut cost across the business while improving well performance.
Our teams remain concentrated on identifying efficiencies and finding ways to deliver more with less as we focus on margin management and rapidly applying learnings from industry and between our teams to generate even better well results.
There are multiple examples that demonstrate this in action throughout our company with one of the biggest being the pace in which our Southwest Appalachia asset has achieved its impressive results from applying learnings from Fayetteville and Northeast Pennsylvania and implementing those as we ramp up that business.
Let me recap some of the results and some of the other highlights for the quarter from each of our divisions.
In Southwest Appalachia we have taken the momentum that we discussed on last quarters call and built on it further demonstrating the potential of the rock and our ability to maximize the value of this acreage resulting from the smooth integration of this new asset and the pace that the team has sprinted up the learning curve to realize these results.
We set a number of drilling and completion company records and achieved pacesetter performance during the third quarter.
An example of this is the work done on the Alice Edge pad in Ohio County West Virginia where nine wells are expected to begin production during the fourth quarter.
One well on this pad has the longest measured depth the company has ever drilled on a single well at over 19 000 feet.
The lateral length alone on this well is over 12 000 feet.
This pad also had the companys longest combined total completed lateral length on a single pad at over 86 000 feet and utilized more than 200 million pounds of sand in the completion operation a new single pad record.
We look forward to bringing these wells on line and updating you on their performance going forward.
For the third quarter we had net production of 37 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent and the net exit rate for the Southwest Appalachia business was 407 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day with 40% of the 2015 wells anticipated to be drilled and completed this year remaining to be brought on line during the fourth quarter.
Included in the third quarter results were five wells that were drilled and completed by Southwestern.
These wells similar to the wells that were brought on line during the second quarter are materially outperforming their offset wells that were drilled and completed by the previous operator.
For example the Charles Frye pad which has three Southwestern drilled and completed wells on line outperformed its offset wells by 54% with an average EUR per 1 000 foot or sea lat of 2.1 Bcf equivalent.
In fact when you look at all six Marcellus wells that have been drilled and completed by Southwestern and brought on line these wells are reducing at rates 60% higher than the type curve that we use for the acquisition analysis.
The wells in this area are being drilled nearly 100% within a tighter landing zone where we have determined that productivity is greatly enhanced.
In addition to the drilling accuracy completion activities are being optimized and we are seeing improved results as well.
The wells are being completed with tighter stage spacing at about 260 feet and increased sand volumes of more than 2 000 to as much as 3 000 pounds per foot.
As the team advances its learnings and gathers more data in this area we anticipate these results will potentially get even better.
In addition to productivity of the wells being better than we anticipated we are also seeing industry-leading cost in this area where are total well D&amp;C costs have recently gone below $1 000 per completed lateral foot.
This compares to over $1 200 per completed lateral foot that was assumed for the acquisition economics.
Our delineation efforts also took a big step forward with our first company drilled upper Point Pleasant well being spud in early October in Marshall County West Virginia.
In preparation for this well we did a rigorous review of industry well cost to-date and took extra precautions to avoid repeating some of those costly challenges.
With these extra precautions and some additional science to enhance the learnings the AFE for this well is $16 million.
This well is expected to have a vertical depth of 12 000 feet and a completed lateral length of 8 000 feet.
This is our first well in the zone so theres plenty to learn but so far the drilling operations have progressed as planned without issues and we look forward to confirming how the strong results of the third party wells surrounding our more than 400 000 net acres apply to our acreage here as well.
We anticipate having this well completed by the end of the year and bringing it on line in early 2016.
The marketing and midstream teams continue to work on a number of fronts as well each with an opportunity to materially improve the returns generated by this asset.
The team continues to work on determining an optimal dry gas gathering solution securing additional future economic firm takeaway which continues to be available and identifying other potential cost saving methods to reduce operating costs in the area.
Well continue to update you as any of these materialize and our finalized.
As a reminder from our last call we have over 80% of our firm takeaway needs already committed for 2016 and 2017 if this asset grows by 35% in each year.
Well continue to monitor rig count and pipeline builds but we continue to believe pipeline capacity will not be a constraint.
When you look at the progress made with costs well productivity and midstream alternatives its easy to see that this asset has tremendous upside even more than anticipated when making the deal last year.
In Northeast Appalachia production for the third quarter was 93 Bcf which represents a 41% increase from third quarter of 2014.
Our gross operated production was just over 1.2 billion cubic feet per day allowing sizable growth before approaching the more than 1.4 billion cubic feet per day from transport thats currently locked in under contract.
Additionally the team continues to monitor the market for opportunities to add to this firm portfolio to support the growth outlook for this asset going forward.
So once again transportation capacity is not constraint for Southwestern here or anywhere else in our operations.
Utilizing the new rigs that were constructed last year using a customized design from Southwestern the drilling results continue to improve.
The drilling days for the third quarter were down to eight days which compares to over 10 days for the area in 2014.
As with our Southwest Appalachia asset a number of company drilling records were set in the third quarter in the Northeast Appalachia area.
Included in these company records were the fastest pad mobilization at 1.5 days the most wells drilled by a single rig at 11 and record footage per rig for the quarter at 133 000 feet.
As a result of our continually improving drilling performance the team realized 9% reduction in the cost per foot compared to the second quarter.
Completions also saw cost improvements due to the optimization work weve discussed on previous calls by reducing the number of stages and water used and by increasing the sand content in each stage of the well.
We are realizing lower cost from the service company price reductions that we have under contract.
Drilling and completion costs are now approximately $5 million per well a significant decrease from the $6.1 million average in 2014.
The third quarter also saw additional successful delineation efforts.
In Tioga County a well was tested to the north of a fault line with a test rate of over 5 million cubic feet per day during a two-week flow test.
With this performance the northern and southern part of our Tioga County acreage appear de-risked and we are excited about the anticipated first production from this area coming in late 2016 after infrastructure is installed.
In Susquehanna County the installation of infrastructure was completed ahead of schedule and first production was achieved on the acreage in the northern part of our county near the New York border.
Additionally the furthest most east well was drilled in the northern acreage with promising results where a rate of more than $4 million cubic feet per day was observed against the line pressure of 1 200 PSI.
This rate is expected to increase as compression is started during the fourth quarter.
This well delineates additional acreage in that northern acreage block of the county and additional wells are planned to be drilled.
This asset is well positioned to achieve strong growth over the next couple of years as further development activities progress.
Our firm capacity portfolio allows us both delivery point flexibility and the opportunity to access markets which provide higher netbacks than the constrained market outlets in the Northeast.
As weve mentioned previously the Fayetteville asset provides a great deal of value and flexibility in the portfolio.
As demonstrated this year when prices fell activity can be adjusted very quickly.
The same is true of increasing activity as prices recover.
This flexibility has made possible by our vertical integration which is also saving us $475 000 per well.
It allows us to move rigs deliver sand and optimize the drilling and completion schedule real time without a long period of delay.
Fayetteville which sometimes can be overlooked still produced nearly 3% of the countrys natural gas.
The value of the Fayetteville Shale was demonstrated again in the third quarter with this asset generating positive cash flow despite the current price environment.
While this asset has a successful 12-year history the team has not stood still when it comes to learning new things.
This quarter the company drilled two wells that are outperforming any wells drilled in the Fayetteville region.
Well talk more about these once we learn more but there is real excitement amongst the team about this legacy asset.
Many in the industry discuss their plans of future production growth but few have done it already to a level of the Fayetteville Shale.
The experience in growing this asset over the past decade along with the stable cash flow that it generates for the company are very valuable to the future development plans of the companys assets.
Additionally this assets proximity to the growing demand centers along the Gulf Coast over the next few years provide tremendous opportunity to capture even more value from this asset.
Regarding our new ventures portfolio we are currently marketing a package that includes our acreage in Tioga Sullivan and Wyoming counties in Northeast Pennsylvania the Brown Dense play in Southern Arkansas and Northern Louisiana the Sandwash Basin play in Colorado and our acreage in New Brunswick along with three other undisclosed exploration plays to potentially find a joint venture partner.
We are looking for cash bids plus a commitment to carry SWNs 50% portion of a $600 million capital program planned for calendar years 2016 and 2017 to further develop these plays.
Theres currently an active data room and we anticipate receiving bids later in the fourth quarter.
In closing the operational results this quarter were impressive and we will build on this momentum as we end the year and forge ahead into 2016.
While prices are not where any of us would choose to have them its times like these that differentiate those that can operate economically and efficiently along with improving well results and those that cant.
Weve been through this before and we have done it in the past.
We continue to demonstrate to the market that we are one of those companies that can.
We look forward to closing out 2015 strong and sharing more exciting updates with you on our next call.
That concludes my comments so Ill turn it back over to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Neal Dingmann with SunTrust.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Steve just a question in your comments for you or Jeff in your comments about maybe assuming the lower for longer and you did go through obviously the details of Southwest App Fayetteville in the Northeast App just your thoughts about maybe different capital allocation if we are in fact a lower for longer scenario well into next year? Yes I think youre talking about where the capital will go between those various regions.
Correct Steve.
I dont know that we have an answer there.
Weve talked about in the past and Bill mentioned it that the Fayetteville has been a swing area for us and will probably be a swing area in the future.
But I think the key is we will invest in the very best wells wherever those are at so that will be the way the capital fallout.
Were still working on exactly where those best wells are and how it gets product and whos the best market and those kinds of things.
Okay.
And then just my second question just looking at that Slide 21 that shows that the Northeast Appalachian performance most recently and then first is your second quarter.
It sort of looks like the newer wells the wells on less than 18 months have seen some uplift or possible higher EURs.
Im just wondering if you could comment have you thought about or have you changed the EURs? Are you seeing an uplift? It does certainly seem like youre seeing some improvement not only how theyre necessary coming on but how theyre holding on around that 9-month or 12-month period? Yes this is Bill.
The wells that weve just brought on and continue to bring on are part of a philosophy that changed that we applied to this acreage where we are getting much better drilling in zone landing in a much narrower window where we believe we get a much better frac initiation increasing sand content as I said in my comments and the results of that as direct offsets to wells that were previously drilled are as I said as much as 50% better.
And weve actually gone and re-steered the old wells to determine that.
If you look at  your question is on this chart.
We are seeing better results.
We are managing flow across all of our assets  our wet wells to manage condensate yield.
And we have yet to produce long enough to know whether they fall off but we do see improving EURs and we do see the opportunity to go back and look at our original assumptions on those and perhaps raise those performance in the future.
Got it.
Thanks Bill and Steve.
One thing Ill just remind everybody on all the charts that we have the well counts different across those charts.
For instance theres a spike on that one chart that pops up in the very last bit there and it gets kind of ratty [ph] at the end.
You got a low fewer wells further out on the 18-month chart or any of these charts as you go through so keep that in mind as youre analyzing charts.
Good point.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning everyone.
Steve on the $600 million of carry or upfront bonus that youre looking for on the development acreage is there  Im just curious as to what the consequences are if you dont get the current transactions that youre looking for? Is it an acreage expiry issue or whats setting the kind of limit on that $600 million of planned spending? And Ive got a follow up please.
Yes there isnt really a limit on the $600 million except that it looked like that was something we could physically do and we thought there was potentially a market for that value.
The $600 million is a total capital thats talked about being invested out there its not the carry.
Its what would be the total piece of that and were asking for someone new to pay our 50% so thats where the 300 million comes from.
When you think about whats the consequences if we dont do it its not an acreage exploration issue its really trying to bring the things forward.
In the case of the exploration we would have drilled those in any circumstance over the next three to five years and were trying to get that all drilled quickly and figure out whats good and whats not good.
In case of Tioga County Bill mentioned before were building a pipeline.
We were going to drill Tioga one way or the other and they were just working into our normal scheme.
In this case if someone helps us we would accelerate and get it done faster and youd have more production in 2017 where well invest in less capital.
But thats the consequence.
Its just trying to bring some things that are long dated forward into our overall portfolio.
Okay I appreciate that.
My follow up is I wanted to go back if I may some of the comments you made on the second quarter call about the flexibility in your capital spending for next year.
Just kind of reading between the lines of what youre saying this morning Im wondering is there  given the market doesnt really seem to be rewarding [indiscernible] and gas right now is there a scenario that we could see in 2016 where you actually go towards generating free cash and all of your production to flatten out or is that not something that youre thinking about at this point? Ill leave it there.
Thanks.
We never worry too much about production growth.
Ive said this in the past.
We invest at 1.3 PVI.
As long as we do that our production will be fine our economics will be fine all parameters will be fine.
So were focused more on the 1.3 PVI.
And so if production declines and if it stays flat or grows isnt an issue with us.
The big issue is planning as if its going to be lower for longer and living within cash flow.
So the other part of your question would we generate free cash flow? I dont know.
But if we dont have wells with lower longer to get our 1.3 PVI that could happen.
I guess not to belabor the point Steve I guess what Im saying is that clearly more gas particularly in the Northeast is compounding the problem so to speak.
So Im just curious if it would have to be a choice on your part I guess to forgo all the  the 1.3 PVI opportunities I guess to invest at a level that would generate free cash flow.
Im looking at the $1 billion for 4% growth that you talked about last time so Im just curious.
If you left your production flat in a 250 gas price environment not unreasonable you could generate free cash and Im just wondering why you wouldnt do that? Again we do not try to predict the future per se.
Were not telling you we think gas prices are going to be anything.
What were saying is were going to work as if its lower for longer.
When you start not drilling wells that are economic because the future is going to be better you said two things.
One you know when its going to get better and two you know how much better its going to get.
And historically we just havent done that.
So it doesnt mean that we might not think about it down the road but historically what weve said is if it works in todays environment whatever todays environment is and it ranks out high in our list of the wells we have so you got the capital to do it wed probably drill it.
Got it.
Thanks for the color Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead with your question.
A follow up on Neals question on capital allocation and thinking about it more from a rig perspective can you just give us an update on where the rigs are in the Appalachian basin right now just kind of totals by the two areas? I think last quarter you mentioned a fourth rig was scheduled to be added to the Southwest.
Yes weve moved a rig from Northeast Pennsylvania to Southwest Appalachia so in West Virginia to drill our Point Pleasant well that will drill here for the next several weeks and then it will go back after the first of the year to the Northeast.
So three rigs plus this one there is four and then we have three other rigs in Northeast Pennsylvania that are drilling at this time.
And then in the Fayetteville we have four rigs at the moment.
Let me caution you.
Bill said at the  were going to move back to Northeast Pennsylvania.
All the rigs are operating in our rigs.
We have laid down rigs in the past and we will lay down some other rigs with what were doing.
So that mix that we have today my guess doesnt look anything like what does today even five six months from now.
So he gave you whats happening today.
Okay helpful.
And then I know you mentioned the 80% of takeaway capacity to cover 35% growth for the next couple of years in the Southwest region.
Does that assume continued liquids drilling or is there a shift to dry gas? Im just kind of curious as to how this dry gas gathering solutions sort of plays into all of this? Yes youre way ahead of us.
We didnt assume or havent assumed that thats actually our growth that were going to have just as we have that capacity.
And what that mix is were still working on it.
I will say that one of the problems the entire industry has and when you talk about dry gas Marcellus dry gas Utica is that its spent the last five or six years working in on the liquids side.
And so the gathering part not the firm large pipe takeaway but the gathering part within the various areas is not well developed.
And so I dont think any company can go very fast for the next six to eight months.
I think everyones working on how to get dry gas gathering system in.
And then the dry gas decision except for maybe one or two wells that you put into wet gas systems the dry gas decisions more like 2016 and maybe even into 2017 as our gathering system gets put in in that area.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Steve a couple of questions.
So you all have that asset package up for sale.
Is there anything else that you all are looking at? Is there any kind of storage assets you still have or real estate or any other plans potential monetization? And if so any kind of net cash proceeds you would receive would you look to spend that over and above cash flow in 2016 or is your view regardless of any kind of proceeds we receive? Were still spending at cash flow levels next year.
There are things were looking at and contemplating.
We had mentioned in the past that we were selling the small storage field and were still on pace to do that.
And we have mentioned some conventional assets that were looking at selling.
Were working on those things as well.
And so there are things were looking at and well head down that path and as those come up and we get closer to either having answers or having done them youll hear about them.
As far as what you do with whatever that is that you bring in thats still a big discussion.
But I would say the same thing assume today is that we live within cash flow and what were assuming today is we have nothing coming in the door until it comes in the door.
So everything were doing is living within cash flow.
Okay understood.
And as my follow up on those Northeast type curves that you have out there it looks like you changed the shape of the curve a little bit the B factors and internal decline rates.
Can you kind of discuss what changes youve made and what got you to adjust those? Yes I think the overarching thing was is the price were using really up until sometime during this quarter had the assumption that you didnt have the managed production that we talked about and they went much higher initial rate.
And that weve put back into the system the managed production to flatten out the curve and it changed slightly also the shapes of them.
So its truly just an update.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan McSpirit with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead with your question.
Folks good morning.
Is maintenance level spending still in the $1 billion range appreciating the cost structure continues to shift in your favor? And what might that level of spending in 2016 mean for growth or no growth in 2017? Yes again youre way ahead of us.
I havent got '16 even near figured out let alone what '17 is going to look like.
But I think the best way to answer the question is is what I had said before.
Production is not what were worried about.
Were worried about wisely investing the capital.
And so Ive got some things that  heres what it takes getting maintenance [indiscernible] but it doesnt matter much to go into that.
We just need to give you some guidance after the first of the year and what were going to do in 2016.
And then youll ask me about 2017.
Ill tell you Im not quite there yet on that one too but expect whatever youre using for your pricing where it will stay within cash flow.
And if it goes up it goes up; it goes down it goes down; it goes sideways it goes sideways.
Okay great.
I understand.
And then just any thoughts on hedging here as we get closer to 2016? Theres always thoughts on how you hedge and how you work through it.
Theres kind of two general things.
I said earlier we dont make a call on prices but we can figure out how they can get much lower.
So hedging right now at this point were having a hard time doing that and we dont see much value in locking in that price where it is today.
The other side of it is when trying to think about creative ways to basically hedge and its not in the financial markets but other activities to do that.
And if you think about this package that we talk about if someone can carry us for activity that creates production not much next year but significant production in 2017 and '18 and we didnt have to put any capital into it we basically put on a long dated hedge into our portfolio by doing that.
So what we think about hedging all the time and were also thinking about very creative ways to do that hedging and I think thats more what youre going to see in the near term from us as opposed to just going to the financial markets.
Now thats the physical hedges on gas.
Certainly on the basis hedge side we have basis hedges between 30% and 50% of our production all the way out through 2016 and we continue to do that and do that hedging.
Very good.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Following up on kind of the rig allocation question in the 2Q call when you talked about the possibility of a $1 billion CapEx I believe you indicated that would equate to running one rig in the northeast one in the southwest and one in the Fayetteville.
Thinking about your PVI focus would that be the most optimal operating plan or would it make more sense to maybe have several of those rigs in one area and no rigs in another just to optimize the actual returns efficiencies et cetera? Just any color you can give on that would be great.
That certainly is not optimal from a lot of different angles.
And when we gave those numbers in the second quarter I literally just went to the group and said put one rig in each area and see what happens and thats what happened.
That certainly is not a plan nor is it a capital budget.
So again expect that we will put the rigs to work where the best wells are.
Now Fayetteville Shale we just talked about the fact that weve got some very very good wells.
We will drill some of the Fayetteville Shale from those very very good wells.
But to the extent that northeast is better it will do less and to the extent that something in West Virginia is better youll do more there and less someplace else.
Were not married to just drilling in each area.
Were going to drill the very best.
Great I appreciate that.
And then maybe kind of looking at your PVI comments and looking at the uplift youre seeing in EURs in the Southwest Appalachia the leading edge well costs.
Can you give us any specific color on what thats doing as far as cash on cash payback periods on those wells? And obviously as part of that that would be asking a question of what you guys are using as your forward price deck on that? I kind of figured out thats what you were trying to basically ask.
I think youve seen a little bit this quarter already with the overall average pricing its the best way I can describe this looks a little bit better than it did last quarter in the West Virginia assets.
And certainly part of that is mix part of that is the quality of the wells.
Its just starting to see in fact the overall area there.
The best I can say right now and youre a little bit ahead of us were working those numbers.
Were getting the data in daily and as we get that data in and we figure out what the quality of those wells are then we can figure out where were going to put our capital to drill the best quality.
So I dont have a real answer there.
But going back to the other thing youre trying to get out of me whats our cost curve look like? Again I dont have a final final heres what were going to do for the budget but assume its somewhere around the present forward curve.
Okay I greatly appreciate the added detail.
Thanks so much guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Steve.
And just thinking about prior cycles and your comments around stronger and weaker companies traditionally the stronger companies have been able to consolidate quality assets in companies.
How do you think about Southwesterns role in that potential future? I think near term theres probably not a whole lot in that.
Weve got a lot of good assets and were worried about making our new acquisition better and worried about the assets that we have.
But as we look out this is a lower for longer cycle I can see as it evolves certainly we can be one of those players in it.
But I dont think anything  I dont see anything on the near-term horizon at all that puts us in that.
That makes sense.
And then people have tried to get to the capital efficiency thoughts and really I guess the question is with the new results in Southwest PA how much  and 20% lower cost and 50% better wells does that automatically move it to number one in your portfolio? It just did in our fast math but wanted to make sure we are aligning.
It certainly makes it competitive.
Again youve got a lot less information there than you do in other places.
In general the area we feel most comfortable about is Northeast PA.
But again weve got a lot more experience and a lot more information there than we do in the very newest wells were drilling in West Virginia.
And thats part of this whole were not ready to talk about 2016 yet.
We want to see a little bit more and want to make sure it holds up.
We want to understand a little bit more about pricing.
We want to understand when gathering systems can be in and all of those things so that again were putting the capital the best place to put it.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
I had a question on how important is investment grade to you guys? Its definitely important.
It takes a lot of work to get the investment grade.
Its something that we talk about on a fairly regular basis so its important.
Im not going to tell you its the most important thing out there but its important.
Whats more important? Well I think investing in the best possible wells driving improvements if not more important but certainly as important.
Okay.
And a follow up on a different tack.
Where do you think you are in terms of recovery factors in the stimulated rock zone in some of these Marcellus wells? We cant sort of improve efficiencies forever.
Do you have an estimate of what that might be? Im going to give you some just general comments.
We have been surprised  and Im going to go all the way back to the Fayetteville Shale.
We have been surprised that we have some areas that are up around 50% recovery factor in the Fayetteville Shale.
We always estimate at 35% to 40%.
And all the numbers when we talk about it is still assuming those kinds of recoveries.
But we have seen wells that are slightly above 50.
Certainly I think over a long period of time over 20 years the better rock and the various plays that are out there on the dry gas side can get into the 50% or 50% plus range but you just dont have the history yet to be able to say that thats happening.
One of the things that we have learned in the Fayetteville Shale is that because were getting a little bit better recovery factors than we thought we have widened out a little bit our space in our well.
Weve actually widened out a little bit on the fracking how many fracs we put in the wells.
And Ive kind of sent hints for several quarters that I think everyone needs to watch out on their well counts.
Those first wells drilled to hold acreage are not going to be what the wells ultimately are and there is a limit and Ill just give a quick example.
Ive heard a couple of statements recently that Utica will be 20 plus Bcf wells and youre going to drill between five and six wells per section.
Well if its a 20 Bcf well you drill five wells per section that means you recover 100 Bcf.
The best spot we map in Utica may have 150 Bcf per section.
The average certainly is not 150 Bcf per section.
So somethings wrong the way that map works and I think theres a lot of that thats happening in a lot of different areas.
And so youre seeing us and what we do generally put out wells farther apart than the rest of the industry.
We put our fracs farther apart than the rest of the industry because we think its going to creep up towards 50% as opposed to staying at 35% to 40%.
But there is some other funny math going on out there and everyone just needs to watch out for that.
Okay I appreciate that.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Most have been asked but thanks for the color on the Utica Steve.
One just follow up.
If I look at the well cost thats 6.8 down to 5.6 quarter-over-quarter.
Can you just talk about whats a different component to that just big picture? Yes big picture faster drilling times better or reduced stage spacing as a result of higher sand loading.
So under our contracts they are putting fewer stages in our well that drives down the cost.
If youre more efficient less downtime that drives the cost down.
Put a bit more sand in it so that offsets it a bit.
And then weve done a significant amount of work on industry rebidding of contracts et cetera and those numbers have come down significantly as well due to where we are in the gas price cycle.
Okay.
Are we talking about 50-50 service cost efficiencies? Im just trying to figure out --? By far the biggest one is if you take stages out.
Thats by far your biggest.
Okay.
So in theory a large portion of that should be sustainable.
Yes it is.
Most of it is sustainable.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thats all I got.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You mentioned if the PVI meets your hurdle rates or threshold rates you would look to allocate capital.
Can you provide and apologies if you already did a specific color on what local gas price or effective realization net of firm transportation you would need to achieve your PVI target just based on your current projected cost structure in Northeast versus Southwest PA? Thats one of those questions that has a huge amount of detail in and Im not sure is compliantly good for this entire group or would be valuable for the entire group.
I think the simple answer is todays prices are very very challenging for the entire industry.
And one of the things that we are debating and working on and will have come to a conclusion on by the time we get to 2016 budget we dont have it yet.
If its going to lower for longer do the differentials stay the same or the differentials narrow just based on that lower for longer.
And then you have the macro market and what you think is going on in macro market.
And at this point in time I certainly have some numbers for if this this and this happens but we dont have a good feel nor do we even have a consensus in our company about what those changes are in staying lower for longer or what may happen on the macro.
So Ill kind of defer that and ask me that as we get towards 2016 capital budget discussion a little bit farther and Ill be happy to go through that with you.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then a couple of non-direct E&amp;P questions.
Can you talk about the outlook for midstream EBITDA how is that impacted by and/or influences your growth rate in the Fayetteville? And then if your assets sale program either takes longer or doesnt work out the way you expect how does that impact how youre thinking about capital allocation? Well Ill start with the second one.
The capital allocation portion of it is just about wells.
So I dont know that it matters at all on what happens on what were selling or not selling or why were doing that.
I think its back to another question.
Are you going to allocate some of that  those dollars to the budget or are you going to use that to pay down debt? And for now I assume were paying down debt.
I dont know if theres any reason that we need to use that for drilling the wells.
Then the second question on midstream and whats happening on EBITDA there you can see in the numbers that we have.
This quarter has a little bit lower production on the Fayetteville Shale.
Our midstream is driven by the Fayetteville Shale.
If you wanted the hold production flat in the Fayetteville Shale wed have to drill about 350 wells a year.
Were drilling significantly less than that this year.
And we havent said what were going to do next year but assume that the production in the Fayetteville Shale continues to decline so that EBITDA declines just proportionally with that.
Great thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Going back to the JV real quick I just wanted and lets assume that it does happen is there an order of development priority within the proposed package? Theres two pieces to the package.
Theres basically development thats in Northeast Pennsylvania in Tioga areas mainly.
That will start immediately and will grow all through 2016 and 2017 and thats a development program building into a pipeline that gets put in later next year.
The other part of that package is your exploration.
And the first part of that exploration is where we drilled and have drilled in the past and that will be Sandwash Brown Dense but the program just lays out over two years.
And were shown [indiscernible] data and kind of the calendar that they would expect too.
So thats kind of the two pieces.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thats helpful.
My other question is in the past youve talked about how to trying to spend within cash flow can be tricky and some overspend may be required just because of commodity price movements.
So I was wondering is there still some overspend buffer to consider in 2016 on that basis or will you hedge at higher than historical levels in 2016 to protect more cash flow and how will that work? Its kind of a two-part question.
Assume were tight on cash flow and Im talking about the past its hard to adjust as you get falling price during the year.
If you start in the year lower for longer and youre looking to the forward curve or around the forward curve type numbers to go with I expect to have less adjustments during the year.
So it should be tighter on cash flow in that direction.
And then like we said earlier on hedging questions we will certainly look at creative ways to hedge.
We will look at hedging at the appropriate time.
And when you talk about historical numbers typically were somewhere between 40% and 60% hedged in any given year.
I would love to have some good hedges on in that range.
And if I put those on maybe we do go a little bit higher.
But right now were not hedging.
So thats kind of one of those theoretical questions.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have now reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Mueller for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you for all your questions.
I know a couple of them I was a little bit vague in answering but again we are like you struggling with whats going on and were early in the process.
It doesnt mean we havent done a lot of work but every time we do something something changes and were having to redo a lot of things again.
And I expect thats going to happen and I expect it every quarter as we end this year and go to '16 we will have a lot of dynamics to go with that.
So I think all the industry will have that and I hope that at least the responses I gave you were as best and were taken in the good light that is best to what we knew today.
And as we know more well certainly talk about that.
I kind of want to end here with just that question why in the world invest in Southwestern Energy? And I can just come to two points.
And very simply the first one is we have a track record of consistently high performance whether its the amount of production the low cost our focus on capital efficiency our culture of continued improvement.
Weve shown you the data youve seen the data and were leaders in each one of those categories.
And then those learnings that we have today in a lot of ways the rest of the industry hasnt been there yet and wont be there for a while.
And it will take them some time to arrive there.
So I think that gives us an advantage in how were thinking and what were doing.
And I talked earlier about the fact that learnings from Fayetteville Shale have helped us understand recovery factors as well as Bill talking about learning how to frac wells better and drill wells faster.
And I think people are catching up not necessary us having to catch up with them.
When we combine that performance with our high quality assets I think what you come with is a very formidable company that really has one of the best opportunities to exceed at any price environment but especially this price environment.
These are challenging times.
Thats where I started but they remain for us exciting times in Southwestern Energy.
So thank you for taking your time to be part of the call today and have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our teleconference for today.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Teleconference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
In the interest of time please limit yourself to two questions and afterward you may feel free to re-queue for any additional questions.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Bill Way President and Chief Executive Officer for Southwestern Energy Company.
Thank you operator.
Good morning and thank all of you for joining us today.
With me today I've got Craig Owen our Chief Financial Officer; Jeff Sherrick Executive Vice President of Exploration and Business Development; Paul Geiger Senior Vice President of our Southwest Appalachia asset; and Michael Hancock our Director of Investor Relations.
If you've not received a copy of last night's two press releases regarding our fourth quarter 2015 financial and operating results along with our 2016 initiatives and plan you can find a copy of those on our website at swn.com.
I'd also like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties affecting outcomes many of which are beyond our control and are discussed in more detail in the risk factors and the forward-looking statements section of our annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions they are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.
Now let's begin.
In the four years that I've had the privilege of being part of this great company our teams have accomplished a great deal.
Southwestern Energy clearly has premier assets disciplined capital investment a low-cost operating model a highly talented workforce and a strategy built upon our formula and inspired by our core values.
I truly believe in the opportunities we have in front of us and the future success of our company.
And although I know the company well after moving into my current role last month I thought it's important to take a stock and take a fresh look.
And having done that I'm confident that our strategy is an enduring one.
And today I want to share with you several priorities as we move forward.
I believe that credibility is derived from consistently delivering on commitments made.
And as such wisely investing the cash flow from our underlying assets which is a core part of the SWN formula will drive our decisions on investment activity when prices are high and when they are not.
The industry is facing tremendous challenges especially related to commodity prices.
Inspired by our formula we've taken clear and decisive actions to respond to these near-term challenges and strengthen the bridge to value-adding growth in the future.
To achieve this we are focused on building on our strong liquidity to further strengthen the balance sheet to invest within cash flow driving further operating efficiencies enhancing margins and optimizing the portfolio.
Starting first with liquidity Southwestern Energy's liquidity position is strong with $1.9 billion of undrawn capacity on our $2 billion unsecured revolver at the end of 2015.
The drawing on that liquidity to invest in wells that have marginal economics in today's price environment does not make sense to us.
We will continue to watch prices as we get further into the year and we can adjust accordingly.
Craig will go into more detail of our liquidity and our financials in just a few moments.
Another foundational aspect of our company is that future cash flows generated from our currently producing wells and our midstream assets more than exceeds our total debt obligations for the company due to our large high quality asset base and cash flows from midstream.
Strengthening the balance sheet is a key priority for us in 2016.
We do not plan to add to debt and are actively pursuing a number of options to reduce our debt levels.
Additionally we have previously disclosed we have taken decisive steps including idling our company-owned drilling rigs and frac fleets as we are committed to invest within cash flow based on strip pricing in 2016.
We are reviewing options for potential asset sales and as we make tangible progress and have decisions in this area we will share them with you.
We're driving further operating efficiency.
We have taken further steps to improve our margin by removing costs resulting from reduced activity and lowering our ongoing cost structure.
As a result of this decreased activity in January we announced a workforce reduction with deep personal regret that impacted 40% of our SWN team.
When we look at commodity prices in our current plans there just wasn't enough activity to support that size of employee base.
Also announced yesterday we have recently finalized a new agreement that reduces the gathering transportation and processing rates in our Southwest Appalachia acreage.
This provides two major benefits for us.
First it significantly lowers the gathering rates of our existing production in this important growth asset.
And second it provides a highly competitive dry gas gathering solution for the core of our West Virginia acreage creating an additional optionality to allocate capital to wet gas or dry gas locations including our Utica potential as commodity prices dictate.
These two actions alone have reduced our ongoing annual cost structure by more than $200 million.
On the top line we are unlocking additional value from existing wells through a series of changes we are making to drilling completions and operating practices.
The results are encouraging and our teams are working across the company to unlock additional value.
Let me turn to Craig for a moment to discuss some of our financial highlights followed by Paul Geiger who will discuss some of our operational highlights in the exciting first year of our ownership of our Southwest Appalachia asset.
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer</strong> Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
As Bill mentioned Southwestern and the industry are facing challenges in this commodity price environment.
While these challenges are substantial and require action we have a significant amount of liquidity with our $2 billion unsecured revolver that does not mature until late 2018.
Southwestern and much of the industry have also experienced recent credit rating downgrades by the rating agencies and expanding credit metrics as a result of this environment.
We are working to address these issues on a number of fronts.
However these actions and metrics have had no impact on our unsecured revolver or other debt instruments other than a minimal increase in our expected 2016 cash interest cost at our year-end 2015 debt balances.
And assuming those year-end 2015 debt balances total cash interest cost across all of our debt instruments will increase as a result of these downgrades by about $30 million on an annual basis beginning in 2017 and will begin declining again in 2018.
Our substantial liquidity position and active balance sheet management differentiates Southwestern from others and when combined with our strong portfolio of assets positions Southwestern well for a strong future.
Additionally and to emphasize a point that Bill made these existing assets provide a substantial cash flow stream that at current commodity price forecast not only services our debt but pays it off over time.
From a capital investment perspective in 2015 we began exhibiting our flexibility and modified our activities to align with the current environment as we move throughout the year.
Importantly we adjusted our capital investments down to $1.8 billion.
This is a reduction of 30% from our original capital guidance of $2.6 billion at the beginning of the year and $50 million below our most recent public guidance.
With this reduction we are still able to deliver record production volumes of 976 Bcfe a 27% increase over 2014 9% of which was organic growth.
And this growth reflects our significant operating achievements across the portfolio despite the depressed commodity price environment.
I will now turn it over to Paul to discuss our first year of operations in our Southwest Appalachia business.
Thank you Craig and good morning everyone.
Our first year of operations with the assets in Southwest Appalachia was an outstanding one from an operational perspective.
We efficiently integrated the Southwest Appalachia asset into SWN during 2015.
We leveraged the many learnings and successes from our entry into Northeast Appalachia in Pennsylvania and once again demonstrated our ability to ramp quickly and produce impressive operating results in a short period of time.
Our Southwest Appalachia asset has exceeded our expectations in every operational aspect as compared to our acquisition model.
The teams hit the ground running delivering top quartile drilling and completion efficiencies a full two years ahead of expectations.
Not only cost-efficient this high-quality execution resulted in an over 94% success rate of placing the drilled laterals some as long as 12 000 feet within our targeted 12-foot-thick interval of the Marcellus.
This exceptional performance combined with much higher sand concentration in our completions resulted in well performance that ranges from 30% to 100% better than the wells drilled by the previous operator on the same pad.
One outstanding pad development of this program is our Alice Edge pad in the central Panhandle.
We were able to drill and complete four additional wells on this pad placing 98% of the 43 000 feet of drilled lateral in our 12-foot target within the Marcellus interval.
Initial production from the nine total wells on this pad was over 100 million cubic feet equivalent per day over half of which was liquids.
In total this initial year of drilling ramped production from these assets by over 65% demonstrating the potential of this position.
These factors have also increased our expectations of our core Panhandle acreage by over 50% on a per-acre basis as compared to our acquisition.
Over 200 000 of our 425 000 acres are in this core of the core for Marcellus and Utica development over 60% of which is held by production and over 80% of which has no obligations until 2018 or later.
We accomplished a lot in our first year with this asset and we are not standing still.
We are working to identify additional ways to improve returns as we continue development of this premium acreage position within a world-class producing basin.
Across the company 2015 included record drilling results record well performance material well cost savings and terrific results from our base production enhancement efforts.
This performance has allowed us to build an even stronger base as we begin 2016.
I'll now turn it back over to Bill for additional comments on 2016.
Thanks Paul.
As we close the books on 2015 I want to turn forward and look at 2016.
And as I mentioned earlier our strategy will be one that focuses on rigorous financial discipline and unlocking additional value.
With our commitment to investing within cash flow we issued guidance yesterday afternoon as you know that included a minimal amount of new activity.
We are committed to investing only in projects that meet or exceed our 1.3 PVI hurdle.
And in this environment that can return their cash flow from an investment in this year.
We are prepared for a prolonged low price environment but we remain equipped with the flexibility and liquidity to ramp activity quickly when prices improve.
With this planned activity production is expected to decline.
And while this is different from our typical E&amp;P operational plan we're in very different times from a commodity price perspective and we believe this is the prudent path to take for now.
Having said this as prices recover we have the ability to ramp up and increase activity quickly and capture the value that is associated with those improved prices.
We have the core D&amp;A in each area of our operation that will allow us to pivot from our current activity level to value adding growth as market fundamentals normalize.
So I want to stop here with my remarks so we can get back to the operator who will explain the procedure for asking questions.
Thank you.
We'll now be conducting the question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys.
This is actually Kalei Akamine on for Doug.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer</span></strong> Good morning Kalei.
So a couple of questions from me.
Clearly with no activity this year NPV is being pushed out.
How does this change the priority for asset sales? Can you talk to the depth of the asset market there? And is there now an argument that SWN should pursue other alternatives perhaps even in outright sale of the company? Let me talk first about asset sales and this is part of  has been and is part of our overall plan.
We're continuing to work on our joint venture with our exploration projects.
We've had a number of different inquiries.
I think we had originally planned on a large portfolio and what we're seeing is interest in individual pieces of that.
So we continue to work on that.
We're looking at other candidates for sale including some of our other new venture portfolio assets.
And obviously market conditions affect the choices on the assets that we will look at.
But first we want to identify opportunities to pull value forward and that would be a priority of ours.
And what I want to do is really discuss those when we complete them and we have a plan going forward that's more specific rather than speculating on the numbers.
Your comment around selling the company I mean that's  I'll just say we believe that the strategy we have is enduring we believe that we're positioned with a very strong liquidity position and a very strong reserve base.
We can manage and handle our debt in this environment and we are working right now on different opportunities to reduce that debt.
And so looking to sell a company is not a priority that we're working on it.
Got you.
Thanks.
And then I have a follow-up.
So year-over-year the decline is pretty large.
I think 4Q it's about 25%.
Can you talk about scenarios for 2017 2018? Can you talk about perhaps CapEx the whole production flat at exit levels and CapEx needed to grow and perhaps what you believe best case scenario is in terms of returning to activity? Do you need gas around $3 or how are you thinking about it? Yeah.
We just put out our guidance on 2016 and while we can remain flexible and we have the ability to ramp up very quickly there's a lot of conditions that can change between now and then.
The simple fact that our production is declining from a company as large as ours is itself a market signal.
I think when I look at 2017 and 2018 we've got various scenarios on how we might progress and I want to see first how the rest of this year at least the early part of this year plays out.
Now if you look at our current portfolio every $0.25 movement in gas adds $200 million in cash flow to our bottom line.
And with our mandate to invest within cash flow as we see prices improve one of the opportunities for us is to get back into and restart our drilling and completions.
We would certainly prioritize our work to wells that are currently drilled but not completed and then prioritize across the company in terms of the highest PVI projects and how that exactly would work.
I think what we want to do is let 2016 play out a little longer.
I've carefully used the words idled my rigs.
I didn't shut them down and take them away and get rid of them.
We have the capability to restart fairly quickly.
If you look at where we would invest certainly the economics in the Northeast tend to be the strongest economics we have and as we have demonstrated just by our well performance over the last couple of years it takes far fewer rigs to drill and complete wells that have growing production than our original plan.
So the number of rigs the number of wells all of that we're continuing to work and we'll talk more about that as we move forward.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
I'll leave it there.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rowe with TPH.
Please go ahead with your question.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Thanks.
I was just wondering a little bit first question on the discretionary capital.
It's obviously quite low as you highlighted.
But I guess curious to see if you had considered other potential uses of capital besides blowing down DUCs including potentially buying back your bonds.
Can you please just talk about the thought process on doing that? Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer</span></strong> Hey Michael.
This is Craig Owen.
Certainly as Bill mentioned earlier we've got a lot of options.
Our balance sheet our liquidity position probably  give us a number of options that we could look at and we look at all of them.
As we think about improving  going forward improving the balance sheet certainly we're aware of where our debt trade and potential there but we're going to look to maintaining a strong liquidity.
We're going to look to maintaining a strong balance sheet and trying to address options that are most valuable today.
And certainly as we look to drill or we look to complete or we look for maybe financial options we'll consider all of those as we move through.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then just one quick question on the asset side of things.
And clearly you're very excited about what you're seeing in Southwest Appalachia both from a drilling performance perspective as well as well results.
So I guess given what you've seen in the 35 or so wells placed on production last year at what point do you all think it makes sense to update the market on type curves and drilling economics out of those assets? Yeah.
I think as we get a bit more flow history we've got some information in some of our released information but as we get some additional flow history in time we will put that out.
And next week we'll issue our sort of monthly update IR book.
And there'll be some information in there that will be very helpful and we're happy to talk about it once we do that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
But it'll have plenty of detail in it for you.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Perfect.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Chris (sic) [Charles] Meade with Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead with your questions.
I think that's me Charles Meade.
Hey Charles.
Good morning guys.
I wanted to ask about  Bill I think you touched on some of this already but I wonder if I can get you to elaborate on your approach to the DUCs and as it fits with your 1.3 PVI hurdle.
It would seem to me that  I recognize -- are you guys there? Hello? We're here.
Okay.
I'll start.
(21:43) for a while.
It would seem to me that  I know most of the money is spent on completions with these wells but it seemed to me that with the drilling already done that you'd have a lot more of those DUCs that would meet your 1.3 PVI hurdle.
And I'm wondering are you limited on  with just working down the 20 to 30 DUCs this year is that more a limitation on the PVI or is it more a limitation on the overall cash flow? And are you biased to doing those DUCs in the back half of the year? What we will do  we're looking at it from two perspectives and you got both of them.
It's not only the PVI and related to PVI we prioritize those highest PVI across the company.
That's how we allocate capital.
Certainly those that we would do this year that can return their cash flow or greater in this year are up in the Q as well.
And then investing within cash flow.
So the economics for the portfolio of projects that we have are quite high.
The invest with cash flow circuit breaker which we've imposed is that piece as well.
We've already done some of them as we started the year so the benefit of that production can roll in but we'll keep monitoring that.
And as we go forward again should we see a change in price and should we elect to put that money to work in either drilling or completions or any other kind of project we'll allocate them based off of that criteria.
Got it.
And this  I'm following up on another comment you made earlier but you talked about your wells in the Northeast I wondered if you could drill it down a bit on that because it was a really helpful table that you guys put in your press release but it looked to me like your best capital efficiency would actually be in Southwest Appalachia and maybe that's part of what you meant by the Northeast.
But I recognize it's not just about volumes it's about revenue.
And so I wondered is that the right conclusion that Southwest Appalachia is where you'd put that money to work? And am I right that this is about  I know there's a lot of assumptions but about a year's worth of DUCs that you have? We have about 100 DUCs in our total inventory.
And to be really clear DUCs that we have in inventory typically are only the DUCs that are required to keep the sort of machine running efficiently.
We don't drill wells and hold them and then hope for prices to recover someday in the future.
That's not part of our DNA.
When I mentioned Northeast I was referring to the entire Northeast apologies for that.
That's both Northeast and Southwest.
And as you look at either of those areas you dissect further down and into the individual acreage or the individual areas of those acreage you've also got the wet versus dry dynamic in Southwest Appalachia.
And so again we don't look at averages across different plays.
We go project by project well by well whatever it happens to be and prioritize them that way.
Bill thank you.
That's helpful clarification.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Just to clarify that last bit on the DUCs is your current plan to have any remaining DUCs as you roll into 2016? As we roll into 2016? Inc.</span></strong> I mean in 2017 excuse me the year-end 2016 will there be any DUCs remaining in the inventory? Yeah and that will be again totally dependent on price as it relates to cash flow as it relates to choices around whether we  when we were to complete those.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay understood.
But we have about 100 and it's not a pace thing it's not a  it has completely to do with investing within cash flow.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the plan remains fluid? Yes it does.
And as you watch the year progress again certainly if prices move up that option becomes one that we would certainly evaluate.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I wanted to ask kind of a higher level question and that was what's your current view regarding approvals of the pending Appalachia pipeline projects? The environmental lobby seems to be making some inroads for example the stalling of Constitution in New York and the U.S.
Forest Service's recent rejection of the Atlantic Coast Pipeline.
So I was just wondering  I'm sure you watch it closely.
Just kind of wondering what your view is.
Yeah.
I think that when you look at the northeast part of Pennsylvania so that portion we have run into challenges probably more related to the various different states than in general environmentalists I mean we're an environmentalist.
We work very hard to work in the areas where we operate and lived with and minimizing our footprint.
But I think the Constitution Pipeline is really caught up in some issues related to the State of New York more than just in general because I think the State of Pennsylvania is ready to move on that.
We have a portion of that pipeline in our portfolio.
We've always planned it to be  our earliest plan two or three years ago was for it to come on the end of this year.
So we've basically managed around it so that we're pretty flexible.
At the end of the day will it get done? I think if the people of New York want to capitalize on the great value that natural gas brings to heating I think they will speak up and that project will move ahead.
When you look at the Southwest Appalachia area it's a bit of different dynamic it seems.
It's a much more liquid market.
There's a lot more opportunities and a lot more projects moving into the area and they seem to be moving at pace.
I mean we've got to listen to the various stakeholders we've got to work together with the stakeholders.
But from what we understand those projects are moving along from the perspective of getting approvals and getting all those.
But certainly the market as it unfolds going forward and pricing will also help dictate the pace of those.
But you've got projects that are proposed that span the next five or four years and they all seem to at this point be lining up to be exactly where we need them to be.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's very helpful color.
And if I could ask one last one real quick I thought I heard you say earlier in the call that there's some new approaches to D&amp;C that are significant and I just wondered if you could add some color on that.
Yeah.
When you look at and then Paul could speak to this more when we get into  if we have any discussion about Southwest Appalachia but we've taken a very very hard look at how we drill wells.
In fact we spent a lot of time re-drilling wells on paper to see how what we thought was going to happen happened and what we can do to change.
The technology and the tools that are able to enable us to steer wells much closer to the drill bit than we ever have before that oftentimes are used offshore technology has enabled those tools to be readily available for us in a lower cost environment onshore in shale.
And so we've got the ability to steer and we've got the ability to see where we want to steer so lateral placement becomes so much more important.
And as Paul said earlier we can actually steer and one of the 12 000-foot laterals I believe we actually stayed in the 12-foot zone for 100% of the time with the tools that we have.
If you can stay in that zone and you can get that lateral drilled then the completion techniques that we're using especially around sand loading to improve the near wellbore quality of the frac become significant.
And the third thing and Paul mentioned this as well around the content of liquids to gas on these pads is just like the old days of Haynesville but for different reasons managing the drawdown on these reservoirs significantly improves or affects the outcome of the liquid content that is coming out of these wells.
And so those techniques plus some of the work that we've done across the company in other areas around timing of beginning to flow wells in terms of debottlenecking the infrastructure that is both down-hole and on the surface have really impacted the performance across our company.
And we continue to share those techniques in each of the areas.
We made a lot of these major strives when we moved into Pennsylvania about five years ago six years ago.
And the effects were significant.
When we took that team and moved them over to West Virginia and that team replicated those terrific results in there.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I was wondering if you could discuss  I know in the past you all have provided some pretty good context in terms of what the inventory of locations looks like in each of the area at different gas prices.
So like at $2.50 how much do you have in inventory in Appalachia say versus the Fayetteville Shale that meet that threshold? Let me just say that we've got the specific inventory numbers coming out in the IR book (32:13) next week.
And so I will get you those numbers.
But what I can say is that at $3 we still have a couple thousand of wells in inventory that meet our hurdle and that we can certainly go drill and as the price comes off that you have a full slate of wells that you can drill across the company and it gets back to that management and cash flow circuit breaker that we've imposed on ourselves to make sure that we're not going past that.
Obviously the Fayetteville Shale is more sensitive to gas prices as you go through.
So you can have at $3.50 you can have 5 000 well locations and at current prices today that number drop significantly.
In fact we don't have economic wells to drill (33.09) what is now the third-lowest March strip since we began tracking all of this.
So you do have  there's a lot of swing there.
When you move to the Northeast certainly in Northeast Pennsylvania it's less sensitive but you still see a change drop off if you've got 1 300 wells or so in the inventory.
When prices get down that number may drop down by half.
Southwest Appalachia has two different kind of aspects to it.
One is we have dry gas; we have wet gas and the dry gas is even further subdivided into Marcellus and Utica.
So as we work through the economics and certainly in a big deal is this gathering deal that we just finished with Williams which expanded the pie for both of us and is a win-win for both of us and is enabling the economic threshold of a big chunk of that acreage to improve.
So you've got that dynamic as well.
We finished our first Utica well.
And when we  as far as drilling goes we don't need to  our plan to complete it at this time because it's actually not in an area where a pipeline is built yet.
So our rigorous attention to margin is certainly there.
But we know that that area is far less sensitive to some of these changes in gas price and the inventory remains.
So we've always been a low cost operator.
We will drive even further to get our structural cost to change and bring it down along with these techniques that we've been talking about on improving the revenue side in other words the performance side of these wells and I think we'll continue to move ourselves along those curves as well.
Okay.
I appreciate that color and definitely we'll look forward to that update.
And as my follow-up question you did briefly mention that Utica well and that's certainly something I wanted to focus a little bit on.
I guess your comment was we're not going to complete it at this point but the area appears to be less sensitive on gas prices.
What in your opinion is your plan at this point with the dry gas Utica? Because it feels like it's an area you could monetize or in fact develop as your most economic asset if it works out.
But without any infrastructure there what's it going to take to get that within the program? One thing that we've got going for us very strongly is that our Utica expands a good portion of our acreage.
And as I've mentioned in my opening comments the northern part of our acreage is where we've also captured a gathering solution with Williams to gather that gas.
And so as we begin the process of looking at how we want to lay that out now that we have that agreement in place you can build that infrastructure out fairly quickly again driven by economics driven by priority but you can build that infrastructure out pretty quickly and then begin to look.
Our next few wells in the area of the Utica were planned in the north and that was because the dry gas infrastructure is present around us and we can move them in.
If you take a look at the wells that are being drilled and completed all around us those wells are proving up our position.
And we're delighted with the success that our colleagues in the industry are having and it just reinforces the quality of the acreage that we have.
And as soon as we can  in the priority of investing with the cash flow and where they fit in the priority stack we'll begin going down that path.
I would remind everyone that when we did the acquisition our plans were to begin the process of drilling the Utica in 2018 and so the well that we drilled this last year advanced that by two years.
And we still see a lot of opportunities in that area.
It's just  it's a matter of prioritization at this point.
And just to make some further clarity on the completion of the well that we did drill we were going to put that into a wet gas system.
It was a test in that part of our area and we wanted to do that.
We worked out arrangements to be able to do that but obviously when you're putting a dry gas well into a wet gas system you needed to take an impairment on economics.
And so we'll just wait to complete that well we'll go  if and when we get into the Utica we'll go North.
Okay.
If I could just clarify then so at this point as far as Utica North it sounds like the plans are to let offset operators at this point in time I guess help prove the position up for you and then at some point it may fall within the plan.
Is that what I'm hearing? The first part of that obviously any information we can learn from around us we will take.
And then as we put together our portfolio of wells and the division has already done this we still see these wells as being very strong candidates but we will stack up the next portfolio of projects again PVI economics and then take the best of the best.
Thank you.
And I just don't  we don't have that right now.
That was not in our plan for this year at this point.
Our next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning guys.
Hey.
I apologize if I missed this when you were talking about potential divestiture candidates.
And in the past you guys have been very reticent to think about monetizing it.
But can you give us kind of your latest thoughts around Boardwalk Pipeline with production volumes in the Fayetteville no longer growing actually declining.
How do we think about that as a potential item for monetization and re-deployment of capital? Yeah.
For clarity we don't own Boardwalk Pipeline so we're not going to sell it.
But the  if your question is referring to our midstream business in Arkansas everything  I just tell you right up front and I don't want you to over read this but we cultivate options and we cultivate them all so that we take objective looks at everything we're doing.
Our focus on asset divestitures right now is on continuing to work on our joint venture work with our exploration projects and looking at some of those new venture projects as an opportunity to monetize them and any other sort of asset that really doesn't have current year cash flow.
I mean the entire midstream business in Arkansas is a significant contributor to our cash flow.
We're focused on our cash flow at the moment and we see very strong value in having that in our company.
And so right now we're focused on trying to bring future value forward and that's where our priority will lie.
And really kind of my style is I want you all to know we're looking at these things and we're looking at them hard but I'd rather talk to you about deals we have in hand or decisions we have made rather than to speculate on what we might or might not do.
But certainly our midstream business as we've discussed before is important to us.
And at this point it's not high on my list of things to think about.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And then just one last one relative to kind of abating production declines.
You did a great job.
We're very thankful for what you guys laid out in terms of capital and what that can do from a production standpoint.
How quickly do you think you can bring rigs back to work and are there any concerns as you bring those back to work that there could be service deliverability issues to kind of be able to abate production declines? Let me let Paul take a crack at that and then we'll discuss further.
Yeah Dave.
This is Paul Geiger.
We've got  we've assessed that and we maintain the readiness to do that from a technical aspect in the company.
And so we've got the ability within our technical ranks to stand five six rigs up from a back office perspective.
From a forward perspective we see that as Bill mentioned we do own those rigs and we do own a couple of the completion spreads and so we see that as a 30-day to 60-day type opportunity for us given the right signal.
We've got the ability to pull those folks from the field and from an outside service standpoint we do see that although there's been significant reduction in the standby supply services that those do still exist in our core operating areas.
We've had a couple of examples where we recently were doing some completions up in the Northeast and the crews had to come from South Dakota or somewhere so they're much farther away.
So commuting time to get them there is  and ramp-up time is a little bit longer but we also  if we were going into a resumption of activity mode we would bring our own frac crews in.
And certainly you got to be efficient here as you do this just to manage it in the cost that we incur.
Yeah.
I appreciate that.
But just quickly the equipment one of the concerns I guess right now with outside operators is some of the equipment is deteriorating are there salvaging pieces to service other pieces of equipment and your equipment is basically good ready to go.
And there isn't an  that other than secured crews there wouldn't be an issue in your mind in terms of any sort of operability? In our core asset areas we don't have an issue at all.
And we maintain discussions and dialogues with our chosen third-party suppliers.
And I'm confident that that's not an issue for us.
We have some of the best rigs that are running and we have a couple of frac fleets to go with that.
So those are maintained in a ready mode.
We're not cannibalizing them taking them apart and all that.
And as was mentioned earlier we have kept the core DNA in the company that has the relationships has the contacts.
And if and when or as when we need to bring those back on we can do that fairly quickly.
Great.
I think 30 to 60 days is very doable.
That is fantastic detail.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Rezvan with Sterne Agee.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
Thank you for taking my question.
First question I had in conjunction with the rating agency downgrades I know there's increased letters of credit that you have to post.
I was wondering if you could update on where that stands in regards to your overall liquidity.
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer</span></strong> Hey Tim.
This is Craig.
We do have some potential requirements to post letters of credit.
That's an option that our counterparties have.
And to-date we've got about $150 million of either letters of credit in place or request for letters of credit.
And in kind of a worst-case scenario the maximum amount of letters of credit is maybe another $150 million or so on top of that.
So we're still  we have plenty of liquidity if we get to that maximum but right now as we said about $150 million or so.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then the guidance you gave for the year is based on a $2.35 gas price.
Bid-week pricing has come in about $0.25 below that for 1Q.
Is there thoughts that you can flex that down further if we're kind of in a perpetual sub-$2 world? Just kind of curious on thoughts on how to be responsive I guess to potential deteriorations in gas further.
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer</span></strong> Yeah.
Tim we kind of put $2.35 out there.
It's just kind of a point to  you can pivot off of on that $0.25 delta.
So certainly to some extent we can reduce below that.
We've broken out our capital into two lines kind of on purpose on the discretionary piece and then the capitalized interest and expense.
We can't really change that.
We can flex a little bit on the discretionary and we'll continue to do so.
As we mentioned earlier there's no rigs running.
We've got opportunities on our DUC inventory that we'll continue to manage.
But we're working on margins we're working on balance sheet all the way around to see what we can do to adjust the cash flow to the environment that we're in.
Okay.
Thank you for those responses.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the end of our allotted time for questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Way for closing comments.
Thank you all for participating today.
In closing our call I want you to know I'm very confident that the actions we're implementing really to support our strategy will allow us to drive through these times created by this commodity price position that we're in.
We're going to optimize the business and continue to drive for every dollar we can in that area and then really position ourselves to return to value adding growth when the environment improves.
Before we kind of conclude I want to emphasize the passion we have to deliver on these strategic priorities and to win in this environment.
It's really beyond  it's unwavering that is probably the best way I can put that.
I firmly believe that our strong liquidity position our premier portfolio of assets investing within cash flow is a mandate that we've imposed on ourselves our capital discipline of investing only in projects that exceed our 1.3 PVI hurdle our aggressive drive on margin improvement and really probably the most important part our team of extraordinary people across the company will really enable us to execute the plan and allow us to forge ahead in these times and also create additional long-term value for our shareholders.
In my experience times like these challenging times are often when the industry delivers the brightest ideas to take us to the next level.
And I can tell you we plan to be a big part of that future and a big part of unlocking ideas and value from our curiosity and learning here at Southwestern.
So I want to thank you for joining the call.
I look forward to meeting with you meeting the new faces that are on the call and thank those that had been on the call previously for being here.
And you all have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Today's call has concluded.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.