Good day everyone and welcome to this Tiffany &amp; Co.
First Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Speaking on today's call will be Mr.
Jim Fernandez Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you everyone for joining us on today's conference call on which Jim and I will be reviewing Tiffany's first quarter performance as well as addressing our full year outlook.
Before continuing please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now we can proceed.
In our opinion Tiffany's first quarter results were nothing short of outstanding.
Sales growth was strong in the Americas Europe and Asia-Pacific while sales in Japan were better than expected after the tragic earthquake and tsunami.
And strong sales growth contributed to a higher than expected operating margin and net earnings which led us to increase our full year earnings outlook.
Let's begin by looking at sales in our geographical segments.
Starting with the Americas total sales increased 19% in the quarter primarily due to an increase in the average price per unit sold as well as higher unit volume especially in engagement jewelry and other high-end jewelry.
Comparable store sales in constant currency rose 17% on top of a 15% increase last year.
We achieved double-digit comps in all 3 months and the trend strengthened as the quarter progressed.
Geographically we achieved solid sales growth in the U.S.
as well as growth in Canada and Latin America.
Sales in our New York flagship store rose by a strong 23% which was on top of a 26% sales increase in last year's first quarter.
Comparable Americas brand store sale rose 15% on top of a 13% increase last year.
U.S.
sales growth was solid from coast-to-coast.
Interestingly despite some speculation that sales in Hawaii and Guam would suffer from a decline in Japanese tourism following the earthquake sales in that 6 store region rose more than 30% in the quarter.
And from a customer mix perspective the sales increase in the Americas came from higher spending by domestic customers and foreign visitors which was also true in the New York flagship store.
The 5 new stores opened in the past year in the Americas are performing well.
We did not add any new stores in the first quarter although earlier this month we opened a store in Northbrook Illinois representing our fourth store in the important Chicago market and a store in Calgary Alberta which represents our fourth company operated store in Canada.
Our direct marketing sales in the Americas also did well in the quarter.
Combined e-commerce and catalog sales rose 14% due to similar increases in the number of orders and in the average size per order.
That was on top of a 23% sales increase last year.
Let's now turn to the Asia-Pacific region where sales rose 37% in the quarter due to increases both in the average price per unit sold and in the number of jewelry units sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 31% and comparable store sales rose 26% which was on top of a 21% comp last year.
This was substantially better than we expected.
Sales were consistently strong in most markets throughout the quarter with noteworthy strength in the Greater China market as well as in Korea.
I should also mention that we are pleased with the overall initial performance of the 7 new stores that we opened over the past year in that region.
Now let's look at Japan which has been of concern since the tragic earthquake and tsunami on March 11.
Tiffany's business has improved there although the total sales increase of 7% was due to the translation of the yen which at JPY 82 to the $1 in the quarter was 10% stronger than last year.
We are currently forecasting the yen to remain in the 80s for the rest of the year.
Excluding the translation effect sales in Japan in yen in the quarter declined 3% both in total and on a comparable store basis which compared with a 10% comp decline last year.
This was still much better than what we expected when we last reported to you on March 21 during a time of considerable uncertainty.
The sales trend in Japan during the quarter was understandably very volatile with almost 1/2 of our stores closed for about a week after the earthquake.
In fact comps in Japan in yen increased 3% in February then declined 16% in March and finished the quarter with a 6% increase in April.
This compared with declines of 10% 10% and 9% in February March and April of last year.
Not surprisingly sales were softer in the Northern Tohoku and centrally located Kanto regions which were more directly affected by the earthquake and its aftereffects as opposed to the Southwestern Kansai region.
We would not be surprised with continued volatility in Japan sales for a while.
During the first quarter we opened a new department store boutique in Hakata and closed 2 department store boutiques in Kokura and Wakayama as we have planned and finished the quarter operating 55 locations in Japan.
Now turning to Europe.
Total sales increased 25% due to strong unit volume growth that exceeded an increase in the average price per unit sold.
On the constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 19% and comparable store sales rose 15% on top of a 14% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
This was slightly better than we expected and the intra-quarter trend was strongest in April.
Geographically we strong saw sales growth in most continental European countries with the greatest gains in France Germany and Italy.
Sales growth was more modest in the U.K.
although sales there did strengthen later in the quarter.
And the new stores we opened late last year in London's Canary Wharf and in Barcelona are exceeding our expectations.
Lastly other sales declined 18% in the first quarter due to a decline as we expected in wholesale sales of rough diamonds.
However wholesale sales to independent distributors in emerging markets rose strongly in the quarter.
Turning to some first quarter product highlights.
The broad-based strength in our geographic segments was also true across most product categories.
On a worldwide basis all major jewelry categories posted double-digit percentage growth in the quarter.
At the high end statement jewelry had a good increase.
The fine and fashion jewelry categories performed very well highlighted by Celebration Rings the Metro and Victoria collections Keys Return to Tiffany and the relatively new Garden and yellow diamond collection.
Engagement jewelry sales were strong as were gold jewelry sales.
There was also a decent growth in silver jewelry sales for Tiffany's own designs and we were pleased to see some growth in silver jewelry sales in the Americas as well.
Sales of the design of Elsa Peretti and Paloma Picasso rose nicely too.
But the U.S.
economic environment that is affecting spending by some of our silver jewelry customers at entry-level price points will likely remain challenging for a while.
In other categories watch sales continued to post 30-plus percent growth in our own stores and we're pleased with the Tiffany Leather collection.
In fact this year we are expanding leather distribution into more of our stores in the Americas and to some stores in other regions.
As an example we launched the Leather Collection in a few stores in Japan in April and are quite pleased with initial results.
So that covers the sales review.
Looking at the rest of the earnings statement gross margin in the first quarter rose 0.5 point to 58.3% from 57.8% last year primarily due to lower wholesale sales of diamonds and sales leverage on fixed costs.
Conversely changes in product mix and higher product costs had an unfavorable impact on gross margin.
As we previously reported we raised retail prices in many product categories earlier in the year to mitigate substantial increases in precious metal and diamond costs.
You should of course keep in mind that the labor costs component is increasing to a lesser degree.
In any case customers are certainly aware of rising commodity costs and we have not experienced any meaningful resistance to higher prices.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 18% in the quarter largely due to higher occupancy costs for new and existing stores increased staffing and increased marketing spending.
SG&amp;A expenses also included $8 million or $0.04 per share after-tax of non-recurring items for the upcoming relocation of our New York headquarters staff.
Those expenses relate to accelerated depreciation in property and equipment incremental rent during this transition period until the move occurs in the second quarter and payments related to terminating leases for certain floors that we will soon be vacating.
The ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to net sales improved by 0.7 point to 40.4% in the quarter versus 41.1% last year.
However if you exclude the nonrecurring items from SG&amp;A expenses the ratio would have improved year-over-year by 1.6 points.
Based on the strong sales growth and our gross margin and SG&amp;A expense performance we achieved a substantial increase in operating margin in the quarter.
In fact the operating improved 1.3 points over last year and excluding nonrecurring items it improved an even greater 2.1 points over last year.
Other expense net which is primarily interest expense was slightly lower in the quarter and the effective tax rate was 35.6% in the quarter.
Last year's effective tax rate of 30.9% reflected a nonrecurring net tax benefit primarily related to a change in the tax status of certain subsidiaries which had benefited earnings by $0.02 per share in the first quarter last year.
Adding it all up Tiffany's net earnings increased 26% in the quarter and earnings per diluted share were $0.63.
Excluding nonrecurring items in both years net earnings rose 39% and EPS was $0.67.
This was above our previously stated guidance of $0.57 per share for the first quarter which also excluded nonrecurring items.
Lastly return on average assets and return on average stockholder's equity are 11% and 18% respectively.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Mark.
I'm delighted to review with everyone other aspects of the strong results we reported this morning and to comment on our outlook.
Tiffany has a strong balance sheet and a well-developed infrastructure to support the expansion of our business.
I'd like to address both these areas.
Tiffany finished the quarter with $622 million of cash cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Total short-term and long-term debt was $687 million.
In April we paid off a JPY 5 billion or $59 million 4.50% long-term loan that matured.
Total debt to stockholders' equity was 30% at April 30 versus 39% at April 30 2010.
We are using Tiffany's strong balance sheet to expand our business while also returning some of the cash to stockholders.
Net inventories at April 30 were 17% higher than a year ago due to sales growth new stores new products and higher product acquisition costs.
I should also add that about 1/4 of the inventory increase was due to foreign exchange translation.
We are projecting inventories to increase at least 15% this year to support anticipated sales demand and the 19 new stores we plan to open.
In addition we are increasing our statement jewelry inventory to strengthen our assortments in key markets around the world and we intend to opportunistically increase our purchases of rough diamonds.
Accounts receivable at April 30 were up 26% from a year ago primarily due to the strong sales growth as well as some effect from foreign currency translation.
Receivables continue to turn at a high 18x per year.
Capital expenditures were $52 million in the first quarter versus $26 million last year.
We expect that CapEx will increase to approximately $250 million for the full year versus $127 million in 2010 due to a variety of factors including a higher number of store openings this year renovations of existing stores which in some cases reflect the catch up for 2 years of deferred spending; and lastly the relocation of our New York headquarters staff to a new office facility.
In our share buyback program we spent $28 million in the first quarter to repurchase approximately 453 000 shares at an average cost of $61.68 per share.
And that leaves us with $364 million of remaining capacity under the currently authorized program that runs through January of 2013.
Last week Tiffany's Board of Directors expressed its confidence by approving a 16% increase in our quarterly dividend rate taking the rate to $0.29 per share or an annual rate of $1.16 per share.
That represented the 9th dividend increase in the past 9 years.
I alluded earlier to Tiffany's infrastructure because it plays a key role in the execution of our growth plans.
Our centralized distribution centers are very effectively handling worldwide shipments of products to our stores and our customers.
Our internal manufacturing facilities in New York and Rhode Island last year produced 60% of the products we sold.
We have recently expanded our U.S.
production capacity into Lexington Kentucky with the hiring of skilled workers and will soon move from the temporary space there to a newly constructed 25 000 square-foot facility.
And our diamond sourcing organization has developed a global reach to ensure that Tiffany has the necessary supply of the highest quality diamonds for our customers.
We are excited about the upcoming relocation of our New York headquarters staff in a few weeks to 200 Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street.
The new location will allow us to operate more efficiently and we anticipate meaningful cost savings over the lease term.
Now let's turn to our financial outlook.
The results we reported today unquestionably represented a terrific start to the year and we have factored them into our thought process for the rest of the year.
At the same time the first quarter represents the smallest sales quarter of the year and with lingering macroeconomic uncertainties we do not want to get ahead of ourselves in our full year outlook.
Our initial plan for the year included solid sales growth in all regions except Japan and we continue to expect that.
For the full year by region we look for sales in the Americas to increase by a mid-teens percentage with local currency comps up by a low-double digit percentage.
In Asia-Pacific we expect sales to increase by a mid-20s percentage with local currency comps up about 20%.
We are also looking for sales in Europe to increase by a mid-20s percentage with local currency comps up by a low-double digit percentage.
For Japan we were previously expecting a mid-single digit decline for the year.
As we expected a substantial decline in the first quarter as a result of the earthquake.
We truly appreciate the efforts of our colleagues in Japan during such a challenging experience.
There are obviously still uncertainties in Japan and the potential for disruptions and reduced store hours in the coming months related to any power shortages as well as economic challenges.
But based on the better-than-expected results we saw in the first quarter our Japan sales plan for the year now calls for just a modest total sales decline in dollars and a roughly similar decline in comps in yen with no significant variability in the second third and fourth quarters.
And we expect October sales -- others I'm sorry our other sales to increase about 25%.
We are now planning to open 19 new customer operated stores this year and in Japan we reduced our locations by one representing an overall 8% increase in our worldwide store base.
We were previously forecasting 21 new stores for this year but one in the U.S.
and one in Europe have been delayed until next year.
In Europe we now plan to open 4 stores this year including second stores in Zürich and Frankfurt as well as a store in Neuss.
In Asia-Pacific we plan to open 8 stores and in the Americas we plan to open 7 stores including a recently opened stores in Calgary and Northbrook as well as stores in Richmond and the fashion show mall in Las Vegas among others.
Also in the U.S.
later this year we are planning to relocate one of our stores in the Boston area from the Atrium Mall to a smaller and we believe better location at the nearby mall at Chestnut Hill.
In terms of margin assumptions for the full year we expect the operating margins to improve about 0.5 point excluding non-recurring items coming from improvement in both the SG&amp;A ratio and gross margin primarily tied to sales leverage on fixed costs.
As everyone knows precious metal and diamond costs increased dramatically in 2010 and it continued to move higher this year.
We plan to continue to take price increases in various categories and across various country locations to offset the higher costs and we also expect other expenses net of about $45 million and an effective tax rate of 34%.
But based on these better-than-expected first quarter results our full year outlook now calls for our earnings per diluted share to increase 18% to 21% to a range of $3.45 to $3.55 per diluted share not including the nonrecurring expenses of about $0.19 per share.
Our previous outlook calls for EPS in a range of $3.35 to $3.45 per share which also did not include the nonrecurring expenses.
We noted in today's news release that worldwide sales growth so far in the second quarter is continuing to exceed our expectation with a solid performance in those regions.
In addition to the new store openings I mentioned we will have an active line up of new product introductions highlighted by the new Tiffany locks collection which is enjoying a very strong start.
Other new designs include Tiffany Twist a new collection in 18 karat gold and sterling silver and we are excited about the revival of Elsa Peretti's bottle collection of pendants which was her first jewelry design and is now offered in an expanded and distinctive assortment.
And we will continue to expand our marketing communications to customers and reinforce Tiffany's brand message in exciting and new markets through both print and digital media.
I'll close by saying that these first quarter results were a great way to start the year and we certainly have reasons to be optimistic about the future.
Thank you for listening to our call today and please feel free to call Mark with any questions and please note on your calendars that we expect to report Tiffany's second quarter results on Friday August 26.
And that concludes today's call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to today's Tiffany &amp; Co.
Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for joining us on today's conference call for our review of Tiffany's second quarter results and the outlook for the rest of the year.
Jim Fernandez who most of you know and who recently became Tiffany's Chief Operating Officer is also on the call and we're pleased to be joined by Pat McGuiness who was recently appointed Tiffany's Chief Financial Officer.
Before continuing please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now we can proceed.
On our conference call 3 months ago we characterized Tiffany's first quarter results as outstanding due to 20% sales growth and 39% earnings growth excluding non-recurring items.
The second quarter results that we reported today deserve at least a similar superlative description.
We achieved strong and better-than-expected sales growth in all geographic regions with worldwide sales up 30%.
That enabled us to gain considerable leverage on expenses and achieve a solid improvement in the operating margin when excluding non-recurring charges and record a 58% increase in net earnings excluding those non-recurring items.
EPS of $0.86 excluding the non-recurring items was well above our expectation and also above analysts' expectations.
Please refer to today's news release for further details of those non-recurring items.
These results were a further indication of strength in the luxury industry and we again raised our full year outlook based on the better-than-expected results.
Let's now review sales by segment.
In the Americas total sales rose 25% due to a higher average price per unit sold as well as unit growth in most product categories.
In fact sales increased in all price strata above $250 with notable strength in sales over $20 000 and $50 000.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis comparable store sales rose 23% on top of a 5% increase last year.
Comps increased by double-digit percentage in all 3 months.
Please note that in the future while we will continue to disclose comps on a quarterly basis for each geographical segment we will no longer discuss monthly intra-order trends because of our focus on longer-term performance.
Within the Americas the sales growth was obviously led by our stores in the U.S.
but we also had good growth in our stores in Latin America and Canada.
Sales in our New York flagship store surged 41% on top of an 8% increase last year with a substantial increase in sales to foreign tourists and the remaining portion of the increase due to higher local customers sales.
That 41% increase was sharply higher than the comps we saw in our 8 other New York area stores.
Comparable Americas branch store sales increased 19% on top of a 4% increase last year.
Geographically U.S.
sales growth was pretty broad-based although there was greater strength in the Western half of the U.S.
and our 6 stores in Hawaii and Guam continued to show very strong sales growth due to Japanese tourist spending.
In fact from a customer perspective roughly half of our U.S.
sales increase in the quarter came from higher spending by foreign visitors increasingly led by Chinese travelers.
The benefit from sales to foreign tourists is most meaningful in New York flagship store as well as in certain of our stores in Florida Las Vegas and California.
During the quarter we opened our fourth store in the important Chicago market in Northbrook Illinois and our fourth company-operated store in Canada in Calgary Alberta.
Rounding out the Americas our e-commerce and catalog sales which rose 16% on top of a 2% decline last year due to increases both in the number of orders and in the average size per order.
Turning to the Asia-Pacific region.
Sales increased 55% in the quarter due to roughly equal increases in both the number of units sold and in the average price per units sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales rose 45% and comparable store sales rose 41% on top of a 7% comp increase last year.
Sales were strong throughout the quarter and in most countries with especially strong growth in the Greater China market as well as in Korea.
We're also very pleased with performance from new stores.
The store count was unchanged in the quarter but we recently opened 2 new stores in Korea this month and had a number of openings scheduled for the next few months.
And earlier this month we completed a dramatic renovation and expansion of our store on Collins Street in Melbourne.
Looking at Japan our business there continued to show improvement that began a month after the tragic earthquake and tsunami in March.
Total sales in Japan in yen in the quarter rose 8% entirely due to 8% comp growth that was on top of a 7% comp decline last year.
When translated into dollars total sales in Japan rose 21% in the second quarter due to an increase in the average price per unit sold which benefited from the stronger yen which averaged JPY 80 to the U.S.
dollar in the second quarter versus JPY 90 last year.
We were pleased to see that sales growth was geographically broad based throughout Japan and that the sales trends improved as the quarter progressed.
The store count held steady during the quarter.
Sales in Europe continued at a strong pace for the second quarter.
Total sales increased 32% largely due to unit growth in all categories as well as a smaller increase in the average price per unit sold.
European currencies have strengthened against the dollar which means that in constant currencies total sales increased 17% while comps rose 11% due to solid performance throughout the quarter.
This was on top of a 21% comp increase in last year's second quarter.
Geographically comps range from good growth in our U.K.
stores to even stronger growth on the continent.
While the largest portion of our sales growth in Europe was to local customers the results have been a noticeable increase in sales to foreign tourists especially from China and Russia.
The new stores we opened last year in London's Canary Wharf and Barcelona are performing very well.
And during the quarter we opened second stores in both Frankfurt and Zürich in their airports.
Rounding out the segment review for sales are other sales which increased 46% in the quarter due to similar growth in the wholesale sales to independent distributors in emerging markets and wholesale sales of rough diamonds.
From a merchandising perspective our 30% worldwide sales growth in the quarter was generated by double-digit percentage increases in all jewelry categories.
High-end statement jewelry sales were robust in the quarter.
Engagement jewelry sales were very strong due to substantial increases in the Americas Asia-Pacific and Europe coming from growth in both units and average price.
The fine and fashion jewelry categories were strong led by well-known designs like Tiffany's Metro Notes Keys Return to Tiffany and 1837 collections as well as our successful Celebration Rings and the relatively new Yellow Diamond Collection.
In essence we enjoyed broad-based strong growth in diamond jewelry and gold jewelry sales and we also had a reasonably good increase in silver jewelry sales including continued growth in the Americas.
And designer jewelry sales were up nicely led by the designs of Elsa Peretti.
We introduce a multitude of new designs every year and 2011 is no different with a strong lineup of new products including the new Tiffany Locks collection Tiffany Twist and Elsa Peretti's bottle collection of beautiful pendants.
And we are excited about the upcoming launch of Paloma Picasso's Venezia collection.
Let's now look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin increased 1.2 points in the second quarter to 59%.
This was entirely due to sales leverage on the fixed costs that are in cost of sales.
Rising commodity prices have compelled us to take selective retail price increases on various product categories and in most regions this year.
These higher diamond and precious metal costs are obviously affecting everyone in the industry and resulting in price increases.
As we said before our objective is to maintain gross margin on our product.
Based on these sales results we continue to believe in our ability to pass along the higher costs without diminishing our competitive position.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 37% in the second quarter.
A meaningful portion of that SG&amp;A expense growth was due to $34 million or $0.16 per share after tax of non-recurring expenses for the relocation of our New York headquarters staff which was completed in June.
Those expenses are primarily related to the fair value of the remaining non-cancelable lease obligations reduced by the estimated sublease rental income as well as accelerated depreciation of property and equipment in our former locations incremental rent and payments related to terminated leases.
In last year's second quarter we recorded $3.7 million of non-recurring relocation expenses.
By and large we pretty much recorded all the non-recurring expenses related to the headquarters relocation.
Excluding those non-recurring costs SG&amp;A expenses rose 26% largely due to higher store occupancy costs increased staffing higher marketing spending and sales-related variable costs.
After reducing marketing spending in 2009 due to external conditions we have since been increasing the marketing-to-sales ratio toward a previously higher level in 2008 as we enhance brand awareness in existing and new markets.
The ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to sales increased 2.1 points in the quarter but excluding the non-recurring items from SG&amp;A expenses this year and last year the ratio would have improved by 1.4 points showing the strong effect from sales leverage on fixed costs.
Other expenses net of $9.6 million which was primarily interest expense were modestly lower than last year.
And an effective tax rate of 31.2% in the quarter came in lower than the 34% rate last year primarily due to a reversal of the tax valuation allowance.
Putting it all together net earnings rose by a substantially better-than-expected 33% in the second quarter.
Excluding the non-recurring items in both years net earnings increased by an even stronger 58%.
Return on average assets and return on average stockholders' equity were 11% and 19% respectively.
And I'll now turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Mark.
As many of you are aware we have invested substantially in our infrastructure over the past decade to strengthen Tiffany's sourcing manufacturing and distribution capabilities and I continue to be actively involved in that process.
I would like to highlight the key initiatives.
As a major jeweler selling high-quality diamonds we have built an organization that has significant wide-ranging abilities to source our needed diamond supply.
That does not offset the almost 40% increase in rough diamond prices in the past year that we are experiencing but it does strongly help us from a supply perspective.
The outlook for diamonds over the long term certainly looks as though rising global demand will continue to put pressure on supply and therefore price.
Our organization must continue to be proactive in maintaining strong relationships with diamond producers which may also continue to include providing some financial support when necessary to ensure greater supply.
A recent example of this strategy is our providing financing for the expansion of the Koidu mine in Sierra Leone in return for a supply agreement earlier this year.
Similarly we have developed extensive internal capacity and capabilities for finished goods manufacturing which last year produced 60% of the products we sold.
Our 3 facilities in New York and 1 in Rhode Island have been successfully supporting our growing product needs.
And last year we expanded production into Lexington Kentucky and earlier this week moved from a temporary space there into a newly constructed 25 000 square-foot facility that will ultimately employ about 125 people.
We have 2 major distribution centers in New Jersey one which ensures that our store inventories are replenished in a timely way and the other efficiently fulfilling direct shipments to customers.
Both of these facilities have capacity to support our planned business expansion for many years to come.
One of the reasons that the expansive infrastructure I've just described supports our business so effectively is because of the investments we have made in information technology.
We have developed what I believe is a world-class organization both in terms of people and system capabilities providing technology supporting our business from customer-facing transactions to distribution to inventory management.
All of these supply chain distribution and IT strengths support our store base our e-commerce and wholesale distribution and will enable us to further expand our geographical reach.
In addition the relatively fixed-cost nature of this infrastructure will enable us to continue to improve our operating margin.
And thanks to our real estate services group we are now fully settled into our new headquarters at 200 Fifth Avenue relocating our organization with a major project that involved the collaborative efforts of numerous people and we now stand to benefit from organizational efficiencies and cost savings.
All in all Tiffany's operating capabilities are strong and we are well-prepared to withstand our business over the long term.
As we announced in June Pat McGuiness has assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer from me.
Pat has been effectively in charge of most finance division functions for several years now.
And he and I have worked closely and we'll certainly continue to do so.
I'm pleased to now introduce Pat to offer some comments about our balance sheet and financial outlook.
Thanks Jim.
I certainly agree with you that Tiffany has strong operating capabilities and that our financial strength provides an additional key element of support and competitive advantage.
Looking at our balance sheet at the end of the second quarter we had $565 million of cash cash equivalents and short-term investments.
We had $694 million of short-term and long-term debt and our total debt to stockholders' equity was 29% at July 31 versus 40% a year ago.
We're using that strong balance sheet in several ways.
An 18% year-over-year increase in net inventories at the end of the quarter supported sales growth new stores and new products.
We are expanding our statement jewelry inventory assortment in key markets around the world and we are being opportunistic in purchasing greater amounts of rough diamonds.
Also contributing to the inventory growth were higher product acquisition costs and almost 1/4 of the inventory increase came from the translation effect of stronger foreign currencies versus the U.S.
dollar.
As a result we expect net inventories to increase at least 15% this year.
Accounts receivable at quarter end were 16% higher than a year ago due to strong sales growth but it also includes some effects from foreign currency translation.
Capital expenditures of $111 million in the first half of the year were up from $51 million last year.
We continue to expect that CapEx will come in at approximately $250 million for the full year versus $127 million in 2010.
This increase is due to a higher number of store openings a greater number of store renovations and the relocation of our New York headquarters.
CapEx this year will likely represent almost 7% of sales.
This is pretty consistent with our longer-term CapEx outlook of 6% to 7% of sales.
We were also using some cash for share repurchases.
We spent nearly $25 million in the second quarter to buy approximately 330 000 shares at an average cost of $74.29 per share.
We have spent $52 million in the first half of the year to purchase about 783 000 shares at an average cost of $67 per share.
We have approximately $340 million of remaining repurchase capacity under the currently authorized program that runs through January 2013.
We plan to maintain a strong balance sheet and higher-than-normal cash balances while continuing to invest in the business and return capital to shareholders.
Now let's review our financial outlook for the full year.
This updated outlook incorporates the better-than-expected results from the second quarter and August trends while maintaining our expectations for the remainder of the year.
As Jim discussed on the conference call 3 months ago enough macroeconomic uncertainty remains and we don't want to get ahead of ourselves.
Therefore our outlook is not premised upon the continuation of such strong comparable store sales increases that we achieved during the second quarter.
Our full year forecast now calls for a high-teens percentage increase in worldwide net sales.
By region we are looking for sales in the Americas to increase by a high-teens percentage with local currency comps up by a mid-teens percentage sales in Asia-Pacific to increase by at least 30% with local currency comps up close to 25% sales in Japan to increase by a high single-digit percentage in total with a low single-digit comp increase in yen and sales in Europe to increase by at least 20% with local currency comps up by low-double-digit percentage.
We expect other sales to increase about 25%.
We will increase our worldwide store base by 7% this year which includes opening 17 company-operated stores and closing one in Japan.
In the Americas we will now open 6 stores this year.
This includes stores already opened in Calgary and Northbrook as well as stores scheduled to open in the Stony Point mall in Richmond the Fashion Show Mall in Las Vegas the Iguatemi department store in Brasilia and the second store in Vancouver in the Oakridge Centre.
A store plan for Montreal is now scheduled to open at the beginning of fiscal 2012.
We will also soon relocate one of our stores in the Boston area from the Atrium Mall to the nearby mall of Chestnut Hill.
In Europe we are adding 3 stores this year including the stores we've opened in Zürich and Frankfurt as well as a second store in Milan opening next month.
The planned opening of a store in Neuss has been slightly delayed into early 2012.
In Asia-Pacific our plan continues to include opening 4 stores in China 1 in Taiwan and 3 in Korea 2 of which have recently opened.
Our margin assumptions for the year also factor in the better-than-expected second quarter results.
We now expect the operating margin to improve by more than a full point excluding non-recurring items coming from improvement in both gross margin and the SG&amp;A expense ratio both of which are tied to sales leverage on fixed costs.
We continue to expect other expenses net of about $45 million and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
So we are now forecasting full year earnings per diluted share in a range of $3.65 to $3.75 per diluted share not including non-recurring expenses of about $0.20 per share.
Our previous outlook called for EPS in a range of $3.45 to $3.55 per share which also did not include the non-recurring expenses.
This new forecast represents a 25% to 28% increase over last year's $2.93 per diluted share which also excluded non-recurring items.
We noted in today's news release that worldwide sales growth so far in the third quarter is continuing to exceed our expectations with noteworthy strength in the Americas Asia-Pacific and Japan.
This is especially encouraging in light of the recent and well-known stock market volatility.
In closing we are extremely pleased with our strong performance in the second quarter and first half of the year and are well positioned for the future.
Please feel free to call Mark with any questions and note on your calendars that we expect to report Tiffany's third quarter results on Tuesday November 29.
That concludes our call.
Thank you for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to this Tiffany &amp; Co.'s third quarter conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
On today's conference call Pat McGuiness Tiffany's Chief Financial Officer and I will review Tiffany's third quarter results and the outlook for the rest of the year.
Before we continue please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provisions that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed.
Following a robust first half of the year we are very pleased this morning to report strong third quarter results.
As an overview the 21% worldwide sales growth or 17% on a constant-exchange-rate basis exceeded our expectations to the solid performance in most regions that demonstrate the advantage and opportunities for us from an increasingly [indiscernible] of stores and customers.
The operating margin rose 3.5 points due to excellent SG&amp;A expense leverage.
As a result net earnings rose 63%; and earnings per diluted share were $0.70 in the quarter up from $0.43 per diluted share last year.
Excluding nonrecurring items last year net earnings still rose by a strong 52%.
And despite global economic uncertainties we slightly raised our full year earnings outlook to reflect some of the better-than-anticipated third quarter performance.
Now let's look at the details of the quarter starting with a regional sales review.
In the Americas total sales rose by a better-than-expected 17% due to an increase in the average price-per-unit sold.
In addition we continue to see unit sales growth in all price strata above $250 with notable increases at the highest price points.
One example of the stronger activity at the high end was the great success of our annual Blue Book event for top customers held in October.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis comparable store sales in the Americas rose 15% on top of a 5% increase last year.
Broadly speaking our stores in the U.S.
performed well as did our stores in Latin America and Canada.
Sales in our New York flagship store rose 24% versus a 3% decline last year with most of that large increase due to sales from foreign tourists.
Conversely sales growth in New York area brand stores was more modest as it reflects a higher percentage of local customer demand.
In fact the sizable portion of our total U.S.
sales increase in the quarter came from sales to foreign visitors particularly to customers from Asia and to a lesser extent from Europe but there was also good increase in sales to U.S.
customers.
On a side note if you are in New York we invite you to be charmed by our especially festive holiday windows of our Fifth Avenue flagship store.
Comparable Americas brand store sales increased 13% on top of an 8% increase in last year's third quarter.
It's worth noting that geographically the 13% branch store comp increase reflected much greater strength than the Western half of the U.S.
including markets like Texas and California as well as very strong sales growth in Hawaii and Guam driven by Japanese tourist spending.
We opened 3 stores in the Americas in the quarter: including one in Richmond Virginia our fourth store in Las Vegas and our third location in Brazil in the Iguatemi department store in Brasilia.
Combined Internet and catalog sales in the Americas increased 11% on top of the 7% increase last year largely due to an increase in average sales per order and the smaller increase in the number of orders shipped.
On a related note we were pleased to see it recently reported that L2 a think tank for digital innovations ranked Tiffany highest in their digital IQ index in the jewelry and watch categories.
L2 cited digital confidence as a point of differentiation for our brand because we offer a website that is searchable shareable and mobile-optimized and at high social media efforts to a broader digital strategy.
I can share with you that we plan to further enhance our social media program and dramatically revamp our website next year to derive strong marketing and sales benefits.
Now let's turn to the Asia Pacific regions.
Total sales in the quarter surpassed our expectations by surging 44% due to similar growth in both the number of units sold and in the average price-per-unit sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales rose 40% with comp store sales up 36% on top of 11% comp increase last year.
The Asia Pacific sales growth was strong throughout the region with especially strong double-digit growth in the Greater China market but also noteworthy increases in Australia and Singapore.
In the quarter we opened 3 Asia Pacific stores: including 2 in Korea in Daegu and Incheon; and 1 in China in Guangzhou.
As well as relocating our very successful store within the Wynn Resort in Macau.
We are on track to open 3 additional Asia Pacific stores planned in December in China Taiwan and Korea.
Our business in Japan performed a bit better than we expected in the quarter.
Total sales in yen rose 3% due to 4% comp growth versus a 2% comp decline last year.
When translated into dollars factoring in the yen being 9% stronger than last year's third quarter total sales in Japan increased 12% entirely due to an increase in the average price-per-unit sold.
Sales growth is pretty consistent between the Tokyo area and other regions.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 55 in the quarter.
In Europe total sales on a constant-exchange-rate basis increased 15% in the quarter while comparable store sales rose 6% on top of the 24% comp increase last year.
Including translation effect total sales in Europe in dollars rose 19% in the quarter largely due to unit growth and a modest increase in the average price-per-unit sold.
There was a noticeable difference in performance between Continental Europe highlighted by double-digit comps in France Germany and Italy versus a modest decline in U.K.
comp sales.
While Europe is facing challenging economic conditions we have attributed Tiffany's better performance in some countries to our growing brand awareness and market penetration.
Having said that we are certainly not implying that Tiffany will be completely insulated from these economic challenges.
In addition although a clear majority of our sales in Europe are to local customers European sales have been increasingly benefiting in a few countries from growing sales to foreign tourists notably from China and Russia.
In the third quarter we opened Tiffany's second store in Milan in the Excelsior which now gives us 5 stores in Italy.
And we were excited to recently announce that Tiffany will open a store in Prague in 2012 in addition to other planned openings.
Beyond the retail store performance I've just discussed I should add how pleased we are with the performance of our websites in Europe Asia Pacific and Japan.
These websites are generating e-commerce sales and along with additional informational sites that we have in some Asia Pacific countries are also proving to be very effective marketing tools to drive customers to our stores.
Lastly sales in our other segments declined 19% in the quarter due to lower wholesale sales to independent distributors in emerging markets and modest decline in wholesale sales of rough diamonds.
So that covers sales by segment.
Let's now take a brief look at some product category highlights.
The 21% worldwide sales growth from the quarter was quite broad-based with solid percentage gains across the key jewelry categories ranging from our iconic classics to new designs.
This included strong growth in engagement jewelry sales especially in the Americas and Asia Pacific and as I alluded to earlier very healthy increases in high-end statement jewelry sales.
We also saw significant increases in our fine and fashion jewelry categories with stronger growth at higher price points.
This was typified by the classics in platinum and diamonds such as studs and pendants as well as strong gold jewelry sales; while silver jewelry sales posted more modest growth.
Popular jewelry designs at higher price points include the Victoria collections our beautiful yellow diamonds collections Tiffany Metro and of course our Celebration Rings.
While a couple of popular collections that span more moderate price points include the Return to Tiffany and 1837 collections.
The Keys Collection remains one of our top sellers across its wide range of price points and this year's introduction of Tiffany Locks collection is already proven to be very successful.
Designer jewelry sales posted a good increase in the quarter highlighted by the introduction of Paloma Picasso's new Venezia Collection.
And outside of jewelry we have been expanding our relatively new leather collection with more designs as well as distributing into more of our U.S.
stores.
So we are certainly pleased with the wide range of merchandising success in the quarter.
Let's now review the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin came in at 57.9% in the third quarter versus 58.5% in the year-ago period.
The decline was largely due to a shift in the sales mix.
We saw a strong growth in higher-priced diamond jewelry that earns a lower gross margin but of course contributes substantial gross profit dollars that generate incremental sales leverage on SG&amp;A expenses.
And gross margin was also marginally reduced by higher commodity costs despite the price increases we've taken this year.
Precious metal and diamond costs appeared to have stabilized or even slightly declined in the recent months but we will not attempt to predict future near-term move.
Most importantly we continue to believe at our competitive ability to pass along the higher costs without diminishing our relative market position.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 10% in the quarter excluding $6 million of nonrecurring costs in last year's third quarter tied to the New York headquarter's relocation.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 12% year-over-year largely due to higher store occupancy costs and increased staffing and sales-related variable costs.
Those same factors as well as higher marketing spending contributed to a 21% increase in year-to-date SG&amp;A expenses or 18% excluding nonrecurring items.
We continue to achieve excellent sales leverage on fixed SG&amp;A costs in the quarter.
On the adjusted basis to exclude nonrecurring items the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to net sales in the quarter improved by 3.2 points to 40.1% while in the year-to-date the ratio improved by 2 points to 39.5%.
While adding up the third quarter's strong sales growth with increased gross profit and contained SG&amp;A expense growth earnings from operations rose 50% over last year and excluding nonrecurring items were up 41%.
Other expense net which is primarily interest expense was $10.4 million in the quarter.
That was somewhat lower than last year.
The effective tax rate of 33.9% in the quarter was in line with our expectations and compared with 34.9% last year.
Bottom line third quarter net earnings rose 63% to almost $90 million and with $0.70 per diluted share.
Excluding nonrecurring items net earnings increased 52%.
So we consider these third quarter results to be quite good and presume most of you will agree with that assessment.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to our CFO Pat McGuiness to review balance sheet highlights and our outlook for the rest of the year.
Thanks Mark.
And good day to everyone.
The third quarter was encouraging with strong sales and earnings growth and the company continues to generate strong returns with the return on average assets running at 12% and return on average stockholders' equity at 21%.
We are pleased with this strong demand and equally pleased that we are well-positioned with an efficient infrastructure and strong balance sheet to move forward.
On our balance sheet at the end of the third quarter we had $297 million of cash cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Short-term and long-term debt totaled $709 million representing 31% of stockholders' equity at October 31 versus 38% a year ago.
We view our strong balance sheet as a competitive advantage especially in times of macroeconomic challenges and uncertainties.
Combined with an efficient supply network we are able to maintain high inventory availability in our stores.
Net inventories at the end of the quarter were 25% higher than a year ago due to a 58% increase in combined raw materials and work-in-process inventories as well as the modest 8% increase in finished goods inventories.
Overall the increases supported sales growth new stores and new products.
The increase also reflected significantly higher production acquisition in raw material costs.
Part of the increases as we have forecasted at the start of 2011 has been to expand our statement jewelry assortments in key markets to create additional sales opportunities.
We have been purchasing greater amounts of rough diamonds in support of sales growth and to secure a supply for our expanding internal production.
I should add that only a couple percentage points of the inventory increase resulted from the translation effects of stronger foreign currencies versus the U.S.
dollar.
We expect net inventories at year end to increase roughly 15% above the prior year end.
On a related note we are pleased with the start-up of a new jewelry manufacturing facility that we opened a few months ago in Lexington Kentucky.
That additional capacity is nicely complementing our existing locations in the New York area and Rhode Island and positions us well to continue to expand internal production.
Now moving to the rest of the balance sheet.
Accounts receivable are in excellent shape declining 5% in the past year reflecting a decline in receivables owed by independent distributors.
Our capital expenditures were $182 million in the first 9 months of the year compared with $89 million in the same period last year.
We continue to expect that CapEx will come in at approximately $250 million for the full year versus $127 million in 2010.
The delta is a function of store openings and a greater number of store renovations but it also reflects the buildout of our new headquarters.
As we continue to expand our business we are also returning some cash to stockholders.
We have been repurchasing our common stocks steadily and opportunistically.
In the third quarter we spent $86 million to buy approximately 1.3 million shares at an average cost of $65.37 per share.
In the first 9 months of the year we have spent $139 million to purchase about 2.1 million shares at an average cost of $65.97 per share.
At quarter end we had $250 million of remaining repurchase capacity under the current re-authorized program that runs through January 2013.
Now let's turn to our forecast for the year which mostly reflects some fine-tuning of assumptions from our previous guidance as well as the better-than-expected third quarter results.
For the full year we are still forecasting a high-teen percentage increase in worldwide net sales to approximately $3.7 billion.
That annual forecast implies a low-teen percentage increase in worldwide sales in the fourth quarter.
We highlighted our full year sales assumptions by regions in today's New York news release.
Those full year assumptions imply that in the fourth quarter by region we are looking for sales in the Americas to increase by a low double-digit percentage with local currency comps up by mid to high-single digit percentage; fourth quarter sales in Asia Pacific to increase by more than 20% with local currency comps up around 20%.
Total sales in Japan to increase by mid-single-digit percentage in the fourth quarter with a low-single-digit comp increase in yen.
And for sales in Europe in the fourth quarter to increase by mid-teens percentage with local currency comps up by a low-single-digit percentage.
And we expect that other sales will decline about 10% in the fourth quarter.
By year end we will have increased our worldwide store base in 2011 by 6% or 4% growth in square footage which reflects adding a net of 14 company-operated stores.
A few locations originally planned to open in 2011 were delayed due to construction and site availability beyond our control which will contribute to a higher rate of store expansion planned for 2012.
In the Americas we have added 5 stores during the year.
This includes 3 stores in the U.S.: in Northbrook Richmond and Las Vegas; 1 store in Canada in Calgary; a store in Brasilia which now gives us 3 stores in Brazil.
We recently relocated one of our stores in the Boston area from the Atrium Mall to the nearby Mall at Chestnut Hill.
And we are getting ready to open the second store in Vancouver.
In Europe we have added 3 stores this year: in the airports in Zürich and Frankfurt as well as the second store in Milan.
In Asia Pacific we have opened 3 stores with 3 more planned in the fourth quarter in China Korea and Taiwan.
Two additional stores originally planned for China in the fourth quarter have been delayed into early 2012.
And year-to-date in Japan we have opened 1 new store while closing 2 other locations.
We still expect the operating margins to increase by more than a full point for the year coming mostly from SG&amp;A expense leverage.
This implies an operating margin in the fourth quarter roughly equal to last year.
We're looking for full year other expenses of about $43 million and an effective income tax rate of approximately 34%.
Adding it all up our forecast now calls for full year earnings per diluted share in the range of $3.70 to $3.80 per diluted share.
This excludes a $0.20 per share of nonrecurring expenses that we have already recorded.
This EPS range would be up 26% to 30% from last year's $2.93 per diluted share which also excluded nonrecurring items.
We are previously forecasting EPS in the range of $3.65 to $3.75 per share which also did not include the nonrecurring expenses.
This implies fourth quarter net earnings in the range of $1.48 to $1.58 per diluted share.
As we noted in today's news release worldwide sales growth so far in this fourth quarter is meeting our expectations despite recent weakness in Europe as well as in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic markets of the U.S.
Although it's probably too early to draw any conclusions we are cognizant of the challenging economic conditions and uncertainties in a number of markets and believe we have factored a reasonable degree of caution into our latest forecast.
In closing we have every reason to be pleased with Tiffany's performance so far in 2011.
We are well positioned in this holiday season and over the longer-term horizon; the Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand remains strong; customers are increasingly attracted to our well-designed high-quality products; our stores have strong inventory positions; we have a well-developed and efficient infrastructure; and we have a solid balance sheet to pursue our expansion plans.
That concludes my comments please feel free to call Mark with any questions.
And please note on your calendars that we expect to report Tiffany's holiday period results on Tuesday January 10.
Our best wishes to you during the holidays and thank you for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to this Tiffany &amp; Co.
Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Participating on today's call will be Mr.
Mike Kowalski Chairman and CEO; Mr.
Pat McGuiness Senior VP and CFO; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Good day everyone and thank you for joining us on this call.
Pat McGuiness and I will review fourth quarter and full year results as well as the company's outlook for 2012 and then Mike Kowalski will wrap up the call with some remarks.
Before we continue please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed.
One year ago we reported broad-based strong financial results for fiscal 2010 with sales up 14% and net earnings from continuing operations up 39%.
We are now pleased to also report strong performance for fiscal 2011 with net sales up 18% net earnings up 19% to $3.40 per diluted share and net earnings excluding nonrecurring items up 24% to $3.60 per diluted share.
At the same time we are disappointed that the year finished on a softer note than we initially expected with fourth quarter sales up 8% net earnings down 2% and net earnings excluding nonrecurring items down 4% but that does not diminish our satisfaction from achieving another successful year.
And it's worth noting that the $3.60 per diluted share of earnings in 2011 excluding nonrecurring items was above the initial guidance we provided to you one year ago that called for $3.35 to $3.45 per diluted share.
Let's first review some key sales highlights by region for the fourth quarter and full year.
Sales in the Americas increased 5% in the fourth quarter with comp store sales up 3% on top of an 8% comp increase last year.
This was a slight improvement from the 4% increase in November December holiday sales that we had previously reported.
The 5% sales increase in the fourth quarter was due to an increase in the average price per unit sold.
In fact while price stratification for the Americas in the fourth quarter indicated continued declines in sales and transactions below $250 it was more than offset by sales growth in most of the higher-priced categories.
It was a pretty similar dichotomy for the full year with the greatest strength in sales over $20 000 and $50 000.
We believe that the slower sales growth in the Americas in the fourth quarter might have been in varying degrees due to restrained spending by customers employed in the financial sector which especially affected our sales in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S.
substantial competitive discounting and particular softness at our entry-level silver jewelry price points that might be tied to some resistance to price increases among other factors.
Sales in the New York flagship store rose 2% in the quarter which was a bit better than the 1% decline in the holiday period.
The 2% increase was due to higher sales to foreign tourists.
The overall Americas region also benefited from higher sales to foreign tourists but also saw increased sales to local customers.
Comp store sales in branch stores rose 3% with growth somewhat skewed toward the western half of the region which includes continued strong growth in Hawaii and Guam driven by Japanese tourists.
Our stores in Canada and Latin America posted solid sales growth in the quarter.
For the full year sales in the Americas rose 15% due to an overall increase in the average price per unit sold.
Growth in jewelry units sold at higher price points was offset by declines in the silver jewelry category.
The Americas region represented 50% of worldwide sales versus 51% in 2010.
Americas comps rose 13% in the full year.
Sales in the New York flagship store rose 20% in 2011 and remained at 8% of worldwide sales.
In 2011 more than 40% of sales made in the New York flagship store were to foreign tourists versus somewhat less than 40% in 2010.
Americas branch store comps rose 11% in 2011 on a constant exchange rate basis due to strong increases in most parts of the U.S.
as well as in Canada and Latin America.
I mentioned that higher foreign tourist spending generated a good portion of the fourth quarter sales growth in the U.S.
That reason also applied to the full year.
In fact full year sales to foreign tourists represented an estimated 23% of U.S.
sales in 2011 versus 17% and 15% in 2010 and 2009.
European Japanese and Chinese tourists represented roughly similar amounts of that spending in 2011.
The 5 highest-volume branch stores in the Americas in 2011 included 3 in the U.S.
and 2 in Canada and they are South Coast Plaza in Costa Mesa California San Francisco and Chicago as well as in Vancouver and on Toronto's Bloor Street.
We opened 6 new stores in the Americas in 2011 including one in Richmond Virginia a fourth store in Las Vegas in the Fashion Show Mall a fourth store in the Chicago market in Northbrook a store in Calgary a second store in Vancouver in the Oakridge Centre and a third store in Brazil in Brasilia.
Their results range from quite good to very strong and that follows excellent first-year results from the 5 Americas stores we opened in the previous year.
We finished 2011 with 102 stores in the Americas including 87 in the U.S.
5 in Canada 7 in Mexico and 3 in Brazil.
Rounding out the Americas are Internet and catalog sales which declined 4% in the fourth quarter as an increased amount per order was more than offset by a decline in the number of orders shipped.
Internet and catalog sales rose 6% in the full year due to increased sales per order and accounted for about 10% of sales in the Americas for the year.
We continue to believe that our Internet presence serves the dual purpose of generating online sales and expanding brand awareness which drives traffic to our stores.
We are currently in the process of revamping our website with some exciting enhancements that will debut later this year.
Tiffany's second-largest region by sales is Asia-Pacific.
Sales rose 19% in the fourth quarter due to increased units sold and a smaller increase in the average price per unit sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales for the quarter rose 18% with growth in most countries and especially in Australia Hong Kong and Macau contributed to a 13% increase in comp store sales.
That was on top of a 16% comp increase in last year's fourth quarter and was basically in line with the previously reported November December sales results.
For the full year total Asia-Pacific sales rose 36% due to similar increases in units and in the average price per unit sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis sales rose 31% and comp store sales rose 27% on top of a 14% comp increase in 2010 with strong increases in most countries.
Asia-Pacific represented 21% of worldwide sales in 2011 versus 18% in 2010.
Sales in Greater China represented 12 points of the 21%.
We have a meaningful opportunity to achieve much higher brand awareness in China and as we proceed we should undoubtedly see the benefits through sales growth in China as well as in other markets serving the growing numbers of Chinese tourists.
During the year we opened 6 stores in Asia-Pacific including 3 in Korea in Seoul Daegu and Incheon; 2 in China in Guangzhou and Dong Cheng; and one in Taiwan in Taichung.
And their early results are good.
We also did a major renovation and expansion which doubled the size of our very successful store on Collins Street in Melbourne.
We ended 2011 with 58 stores in the Asia-Pacific region.
Our 2 largest stores by sales volume in the region are on Canton Road in Hong Kong and in Ngee Ann City in Singapore.
Now let's turn to Japan.
Total sales rose 12% in the fourth quarter due to an increase in the average price per unit sold.
This was essentially in line with the 13% sales increase in the holiday period.
On a constant exchange rate basis sales rose 5% in the quarter and comps rose 4% on top of a 1% increase last year due to relatively similar growth throughout Japan.
One year ago this month we were looking at a sales decline and considerable uncertainty in Japan following the tragic earthquake and tsunami.
But our sales growth resumed one month later demonstrating the enduring value and emotional resonance of our brand combined with the extraordinary efforts of our Tiffany colleagues in Japan.
For the year on a constant exchange rate basis total sales increased 3% and comparable store sales rose 4%.
However due to the yen strengthening by 10% against the U.S.
dollar in 2011 total sales increased 13% due to an increase in the average price per unit sold.
Our flagship store on the Ginza in Tokyo generates the highest volume of our stores in Japan and accounted for 12% of our total retail sales in Japan last year.
During 2011 we opened a new store in Hakata and closed 2 locations in Kokura and Wakayama and finished the year with 55 locations in Japan.
For the full year Japan represented 17% of worldwide sales in 2011 versus 18% in 2010.
Now let's review performance in Europe.
Sales in the fourth quarter increased 3% due to an increase in the average price per unit sold.
This was slightly better than the previously reported holiday sales result.
On a constant exchange rate basis sales rose 3% and comp store sales declined 2% on top of the 16% comp increase on last year's fourth quarter.
The 2% comp decline reflected mixed results that range from solid growth in Continental Europe with the highest growth in Germany and Austria to a sales decline in the U.K.
For the full year sales in Europe increased 17% due to increases in units sold as well as in the average price per unit sold and continue to represent 12% of worldwide sales.
On a constant exchange rate basis total European sales rose 12% and comp store sales rose 6% on top of an 18% comp increase in 2010.
Strong sales growth across Continental Europe surpassed a more modest increase in U.K.
sales in the year.
We think that softness in London has probably reflected restrained spending by customers in the financial industry similar to what we've experienced in New York along with overall challenging economic conditions.
The vast majority of our European sales are generated by local customers.
However Tiffany stores in Europe also derive a growing benefit from sales to non-European tourists which we estimate now represent about 1/4 of European sales with the highest percentage of those sales in Paris.
In addition Tiffany's Internet sales in Europe through websites in 9 countries are also growing very nicely and represented almost 10% of total European sales in 2011.
During the year we opened 3 stores in Europe including a second store in Milan in the Excelsior which is posting excellent initial results as well as second stores in both Frankfurt and Zürich in their airports.
And I should add that we've had excellent results from the 2 stores we opened in 2010 in London's Canary Wharf and in Barcelona.
The U.K.
with 10 stores accounted for slightly less than half of our European sales in 2011.
Our 2 highest-sales-volume stores in Europe in 2011 were on Old Bond Street in London and on via della Spiga in Milan.
We operated 32 stores in Europe at the end of 2011.
Putting it all together our solid sales growth contributed to improved sales productivity in 2011 coming from comp store sales growth and the successful results from new stores.
Looking at that sales productivity by region the 247 stores we operated in 21 countries at year end generated total worldwide sales per gross square foot of $3 000 in 2011 versus $2 600 in 2010.
By region the Americas generated $2 300 in 2011 versus $2 100 in 2010.
Europe generated $3 400 versus $3 000 in 2010.
Japan was at $4 100 versus $3 500 in 2010.
And the highest productivity continued to be in Asia-Pacific with $4 700 per gross square foot versus $4 000 in 2010.
Let's briefly look at other sales which declined 22% in the fourth quarter.
That segment consists primarily of wholesale sales of diamonds and sales to independent third-party distributors of our products primarily in the Middle East and Russia and the sales decline reflected lower sales in both components as we had expected.
For the full year other sales declined 5% as sales growth to independent distributors was more than offset by a decline in wholesale sales of diamonds.
We recently announced that we have signed a memorandum of understanding with Damas Jewelers to establish a joint venture in the UAE.
The JV will give us overall responsibility for 5 existing stores in Dubai and Abu Dhabi and we will soon commence new merchandising and marketing initiatives there to drive sales growth.
Let's now review some merchandising highlights.
While total sales growth decelerated to 8% in the fourth quarter after increasing 24% in the first 9 months of the year there were some differing patterns by category and price point in some regions.
High-end statement jewelry sales softened after experiencing strong growth in the first 3 quarters of 2011.
On the other hand the most resilient category was engagement jewelry with a very solid increase in the quarter continuing its strong growth from earlier in the year.
Fine and fashion jewelry sales were up modestly in the quarter after strong growth in the first 3 quarters of the year.
We are extremely pleased with the continued success of our extraordinary yellow diamond jewelry collection and with its long-term potential.
We've also seen customers all year attracted to platinum- and diamond-focused products such as studs and pendants and to important collections such as Victoria Metro and Celebration Rings.
There's also been a growing desire for gold jewelry in collections like Return to Tiffany 1837 and the new Locks Collection which followed the unprecedented success of the Keys Collection.
Conversely silver jewelry sales have been growing more modestly.
We were pleased with growth in designer jewelry sales in the quarter that continued our success from earlier in the year.
Elsa Peretti's designs had a healthy sales increase led by the always alluring Diamonds by the Yard collection.
Paloma Picasso sales growth was stimulated by her stunning new Venezia Collection and we are also continuing to be pleased with the sales growth of Tiffany's Leather Collection.
Product development has always been an important strategy and sales driver at Tiffany's and you can expect to see a very exciting and eclectic array of new jewelry designs over the coming year.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Pat McGuiness.
Thanks Mark.
I will now focus my remarks on the rest of the earnings statement.
Let's start with gross margin which at 60.4% in the fourth quarter was 0.5 point lower than the prior year.
The downward pressure in the quarter came from higher product cost a continued shift in sales mix toward higher-priced products that earn a lower gross margin and a lack of sales leverage on fixed cost.
For the full year gross margin of 59% was 0.1 point lower than the prior year.
Higher product acquisition costs and shifts in product sales mix were mostly offset by sales leverage on fixed costs.
Throughout the year we have spoken about gross margin pressure from significantly higher cost of precious metals and diamonds which in turn have led to increased retail prices at Tiffany and in the overall jewelry industry.
If product input costs stabilize we would expect less pressure on gross margin in the latter part of 2012 and future pricing actions if any would be more modest.
For the full year though we expect gross margin to be lower than the prior year based on our assumptions for product cost inventory turnover sales volume and sales mix.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 10% in the fourth quarter primarily due to growth in store occupancy labor and marketing costs.
In last year's fourth quarter we recorded $6 million of nonrecurring expenses related to the relocation of our New York headquarters staff in June 2011.
Excluding that expense SG&amp;A expenses increased 11% in this fourth quarter and the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to net sales would have been 36.3% versus 35.1% last year.
For the full year SG&amp;A expenses rose 18%.
This is also primarily due to higher cost for store occupancy labor and marketing.
SG&amp;A expenses also included $43 million of nonrecurring expenses in the first half of 2011 related to the headquarters staff relocation.
In 2010 we recorded $17 million of those nonrecurring expenses.
So excluding nonrecurring expenses in both years SG&amp;A expenses increased 16% for the year and the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to net sales improved to 38.4% from 39.2% in the prior year.
We will remind you that the vast majority of our SG&amp;A expenses are relatively fixed in fact about 80%.
So there's further opportunity to leverage those costs and improve the ratio to sales.
For 2012 we believe we have put together a well-controlled and prudent expense plan.
Our plan calls for high-single-digit expense growth which includes increased spending for new stores labor occupancy and marketing.
Our plan will enable us to improve the expense ratio to sales for the full year.
Excluding nonrecurring charges the improvement will be comparable or better than the 80-basis-point reduction achieved in 2011.
The SG&amp;A expense growth in 2012 also factors in higher pension and post-retirement costs due to asset performance and a reduction in the discount rate.
For the full year the slight decline in gross margin and the improved SG&amp;A expense ratio gave us an operating margin of 19.4% versus 19.3% last year.
However excluding nonrecurring items the operating margin was 20.6% versus 19.8% last year.
For 2012 the expected decline in gross margin and improvement in the SG&amp;A expense ratio will likely result in the operating margin being unchanged from 2011 to 20.6% excluding the nonrecurring items.
Other expenses rose to $13 million in the fourth quarter from $11 million last year while other expenses in the full year declined to $43 million from $47 million due to lower interest expense.
We expect other expenses in 2012 to be roughly unchanged from 2011.
The effective income tax rate of 34.5% in the fourth quarter was a bit higher than we anticipated which cost us a few cents per share in the fourth quarter.
The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 came in at 34%.
That was higher than the 32.7% rate in fiscal 2010 which included benefits from nonrecurring items primarily related to a change in tax status of certain subsidiaries.
We are projecting an effective tax rate of 34% to 35% for 2012.
Adding it all up net income declined 2% in the fourth quarter to $178 million or $1.39 per diluted share.
For the full year net earnings rose 19% to $439 million or $3.40 per diluted share.
Excluding nonrecurring items net earnings declined 4% in the fourth quarter but rose 24% in the full year to $3.60 per diluted share.
Due to the higher-than-expected effective tax rate this was at the lower end of the range we had projected when we reported holiday sales results on January 10.
The full year net margin rose to 12.1% in 2011 from 11.9% in 2010.
Excluding the nonrecurring items net margin was 12.8% in 2011 versus 12.2% in 2010.
Whichever way you measure it Tiffany had a very strong year and earnings surpassed the healthy objective that we set at the start of 2011.
Our return on average equity and return on average assets improved in 2011.
ROE was 19% for the full year versus 18% in 2010 while ROA was 11% for the full year versus 10% in 2010.
While the improved ROA reflects the strong earnings in 2011 it also reflects a large increase in inventory levels which I'll discuss in a moment.
We finished the year with a solid balance sheet that we believe serves as a competitive advantage.
Accounts receivable of $184 million at year end was 1% below the prior year end and receivable turnover remained very high at 20x.
Net inventories of $2.1 billion at January 31 were 28% higher than the prior year end but it's important to look at the components of that increase.
Finished goods inventories rose 16% in fiscal 2011 reflecting higher product acquisition costs new stores product launches and expanded product assortments including our statement jewelry category.
And the lower-than-expected sales growth in the fourth quarter temporarily inflated year-end inventory levels.
It's worth noting that the larger driver of inventory growth was in raw material and work-in-process inventories.
Combined they increased 46% in the year reflecting higher product acquisition costs increased internal manufacturing and substantially higher rough and polished diamond purchases.
For 2012 we are planning for a 15% increase in net inventories partly due to new stores expanded product assortments and further vertical integration of our diamond supply chain.
The inventory growth also includes a meaningful increase of extraordinary statement jewelry pieces to support the celebration of Tiffany's 175th anniversary over the 2012 2013 timeframe.
Capital expenditures were $239 million in 2011 or 7% of sales.
This was substantially higher than the $127 million we spent in 2010.
The largest single piece of the CapEx increase resulted from the relocation of our New York headquarters staff.
We also increased our CapEx by renovating more of our store base and CapEx also went toward opening 14 stores.
Our CapEx budget of $240 million for 2012 reflects both a higher rate of new store openings and an increased number of store renovations.
The budgeted amount represents about 6% of sales and is consistent with the long-term plan to spend about 6% to 7% of sales per year.
As a result of the factors I've cited Tiffany's 2011 free cash flow which we define as cash flows from operating activities minus capital expenditures was an outflow of $29 million.
At year end we had cash cash equivalents and short-term investments of $442 million total short-term and long-term debt was $712 million and stockholders' equity was $2.3 billion at year end.
As a result the ratio of total debt to equity was 30% at year end compared with 32% at the end of fiscal 2010 and 40% at the end of fiscal 2009.
In 2011 we paid off $61 million of maturing long-term debt in Japan.
We also entered into a JPY 4 billion or about $50 million one-year credit facility in Japan which was fully utilized at year end.
During the year we continued returning cash to stockholders.
We remained active in our share repurchase program in 2011 spending $174 million to repurchase 2.6 million shares of our common stock at an average cost of $66.23 per share.
And once again we increased the quarterly dividend rate on common stock announcing a 16% increase in May 2011.
That represented the 10th dividend increase in 9 years which has also led to a meaningful increase in the dividend payout ratio over that period.
The annual dividend of $1.16 per share represents a payout ratio of 34% on 2011's earnings per share of $3.40.
Looking to our financial guidance for 2012.
We stated in today's news release that we are projecting an approximate 10% increase in worldwide sales in 2012 primarily driven by sales growth in Asia-Pacific and the Americas.
Our expected 10% worldwide sales increase in dollars equates to a 12% increase on constant exchange rate basis with comp store sales growth of 8%.
I've already mentioned our full year assumptions for gross margin SG&amp;A expense growth other expenses and the effective income tax rate.
Bringing it all together we are projecting net earnings for 2012 in a range of $3.95 to $4.05 per diluted share representing growth of 10% to 13% over 2011 EPS of $3.60 per diluted share which excluded the nonrecurring items.
As we noted in today's news release we expect a large portion of the earnings growth to be weighted toward the fourth quarter.
The unusual spread is largely due to our expectation for some continued gross margin pressure in the next few quarters.
We also noted in today's release that we are now halfway through the first quarter and worldwide sales growth is tracking in line with our internal expectation.
We know there are economic challenges and uncertainty in a number of markets around the world as evidenced by the fourth quarter results and we believe we have factored a reasonable degree of caution into our forecast.
However we also continue to take a long-term approach to managing our business and are striving to increase Tiffany's presence and customer base.
Our 2012 plan includes making those investments to reap both immediate and longer-term benefits.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Mike Kowalski.
Thanks Pat and Mark.
I'm glad to be on this call and pleased to say that we achieved if not exceeded the objectives we set for 2011.
We generated strong sales and earnings growth for the year despite the softness in the fourth quarter and we continue to build an even stronger platform for future growth.
The new stores we opened and the new products we introduced performed well and we have exciting plans for 2012.
Specifically one of our key initiatives will be the continued expansion of our company-operated worldwide store base.
Our plan for 2012 is to open a net of 24 stores representing a 10% increase in the number of locations.
In the Americas we are planning to open 9 stores comprised of 4 stores in the United States including a store we are opening this week in Salt Lake City and a store in Manhattan SoHo in September.
We are planning for 2 new stores in Canada including one we opened last month in at Montréal and we are planning to open 3 stores in Latin America with 2 in Mexico and 1 in Rio de Janeiro.
In Asia-Pacific we plan to open a net of 7 stores this year including one store in Bondi Junction Australia our sixth in Australia; our second store in Singapore at the airport which will be our fifth store in Singapore; and a net of 5 stores in China bringing us to 21 stores in China by year end.
Our plans continue to call for expanding our store base to 30 stores in China in the next several years.
In Japan the store total will be unchanged.
Our plans for Europe call for adding 3 stores this year in Prague in Nice and in the Berlin airport which will bring us to 35 European stores by year end and closer to our goal of 50 stores in Europe in the next 5 or so years.
Our worldwide store expansion plans in 2012 also include adding 5 company-operated stores in the Middle East.
Two months ago we announced our signing of a memorandum of understanding to establish a joint venture in the UAE with Damas Jewelers.
Under the JV Tiffany will soon take on responsibility for merchandising assortment and pricing advertising and promotional activities staffing store design and visual display and financial services in 5 existing Tiffany company stores including 3 in Dubai and 2 in Abu Dhabi.
We are very excited about converting these stores into company-operated locations and believe there is substantial potential for us to reach a large base of customers who undoubtedly appreciates Tiffany's extraordinary product offerings.
Beyond the Middle East we are also exploring opportunities to expand Tiffany's modest existing presence in Russia and Brazil and to eventually enter India.
Tiffany's website has been widely recognized for its innovative excellence in the jewelry category.
We believe we can enhance the customer experience even further and are working on a comprehensive revamp of the website to launch later in the year which we expect will generate additional marketing and sales benefits.
We also have developed an exciting and impactful array of new products to be introduced in 2012.
I'm sure you are all aware that Tiffany's 1837 jewelry collection has been an enormous success.
To commemorate the year of Tiffany's founding we are excited about the current launch of the next generation of 1837 with new designs in gold and silver and a significant portion of the collection executed in Tiffany's new RUBEDO metal.
RUBEDO is a luminescent blend of copper silver and gold which our metallurgists took several years to develop.
It has a radiant innovative glow and initial customer reception has been very strong.
We plan to further expand our assortment of statement jewelry with important pieces and we'll continue to offer our extraordinary engagement jewelry in a compelling and competitively dominant assortment of styles.
Beyond engagement and statement jewelry we have developed a new Enchant Collection for later this year with designs inspired by the natural world in platinum gold and tanzanite.
There will also be new designs featuring pink diamonds a continued focus and expansion of our very successful Yellow Diamond Collection additions to our Somerset jewelry collection and new pearl jewelry offerings.
And we will debut a new collection of designs inspired by the Art Deco period to coincide with the fourth quarter debut of the movie The Great Gatsby for which Tiffany has designed the jewelry.
We are also currently launching Paloma Picasso's new Villa Paloma collection in gold and silver inspired by the beauty found in Paloma's favorite gardens around the world.
Finally we will continue to build on the strength of our core collections with additions to our very successful Return to Tiffany Keys Locks and Charms collections and new additions to our Leather Collection.
And of course you can be certain that we will employ an active marketing program through advertising and print and digital media public relations and store events to focus on these new designs as well as the wide range of Tiffany classics.
Supporting our ongoing business and store and product expansion is our strong infrastructure.
Tiffany's 2 distribution centers are very effectively handling worldwide store replenishment and direct-to-customer shipments.
Very importantly we have developed excellent product manufacturing and sourcing capabilities.
In 2011 we internally manufactured about 60% of Tiffany's merchandise sold.
The new jewelry manufacturing facility we opened in Lexington Kentucky in 2011 gives us additional capacity to complement our facilities in New York and Rhode Island and can support our future growth.
Tiffany has built an extraordinarily powerful diamond supply chain through relationships with many of the world's diamond producers.
Less than 1% of the world's diamonds meet Tiffany quality standards.
As we continue to seek global wealth creation in the future we and others in our industry expect that the worldwide supply of diamonds especially at our quality levels keep pace with growing customer demand and therefore diamond cost will likely move higher.
While we cannot mitigate higher cost we can feel assured that the diamond supply chain we have developed will enable us to serve our growing customer base with a comprehensive supply of the finest-quality diamonds that they expect from Tiffany.
The 2012 2013 period marks the 175th anniversary of Tiffany's founding.
Our brand is now globally recognized and admired.
54% of our worldwide sales in 2011 were transacted outside the United States and the percentage of sales made to non-U.S.
customers is even greater if you include the spending by foreign tourists shopping in our U.S.
stores.
Tiffany will continue to grow as the place that customers from around the world come to celebrate life's most important occasions.
The Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand is flourishing because it represents the finest product quality and craftsmanship enduring value a rewarding shopping experience and a bond of trust with consumers.
We know that these traits will remain the keys to our future growth and our success.
We believe we have put together a reasonable and achievable financial plan for 2012 with approximately 10% worldwide sales growth and net earnings growth of 10% to 13% excluding last year's nonrecurring items.
What we accomplish in 2012 should yield benefits for years to come and we remain committed to our longer-term financial objective to increase net sales by 10% to 12% annually and net earnings by at least 15% per year.
Thank you for joining us today for our review of Tiffany's results and outlook.
I look forward to seeing many of you during the year and updating you on Tiffany's progress.
In fact please note that we expect to report Tiffany's first quarter results on Thursday May 24.
I appreciate your ongoing and growing interest.
Here's Mark again.
Thanks Mike and Pat.
That wraps up our remarks but if you missed any portion of this call a replay will be available today beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time and running through March 27.
The number is 1 (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and 1 (719) 457-0820 when calling from outside the U.S.
The passcode is 6449837.
You can also access the replay on tiffany.com/investor.
That concludes our call.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to this Tiffany &amp; Co.
First Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating in today's call are Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations; and Mr.
Pat McGuiness Senior Vice President and CFO.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Good day everyone.
Pat McGuiness and I appreciate your tuning in for this review of Tiffany's first quarter results and an update of our full year outlook.
Before we continue please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's 2011 annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed.
The first quarter results we reported this morning were mixed.
Total sales growth of 8% was a few percent below our expectation due to softness in April but you should note that it was on top of a 20% increase on last year's first quarter.
The shortfall to our expectation was entirely in the Americas while quarterly sales in Asia Pacific Japan and Europe came in pretty much where we expected.
Gross margin declined in the quarter which we had anticipated and SG&amp;A expenses were in line with our expectation.
Put it together and net earnings rose slightly over last year on a GAAP basis but declined slightly when adjusted to exclude nonrecurring costs last year.
You should also note that net earnings in last year's first quarter had increased by a strong 26%.
We had clearly communicated 2 months ago that we expected only minimal EPS growth when adjusted in the first quarter and that we anticipated that most of the expected annual increase in 2012 would occur in the fourth quarter.
Pat will address our new annual outlook in his remarks.
Let's begin the sales review by looking at the Americas where total sales rose 3% in the quarter.
The increase was due to a higher average price per unit sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis sales also rose 3% and comps were equal to last year due to a 1% increase in brand store comps with no meaningful geographical differences by region except for strength in our Pacific market and a 4% decline in New York flagship store sales.
In last year's first quarter Americas comps had increased 17% due to a 15% increase in brand store comp and a 23% increase in New York flagship store sales.
In any case both the brand stores and New York comps trailed our expectations.
We believe that our performance in the U.S.
while disappointing to us is also reflective of data published by MasterCard spending polls for the high-end segment of the U.S.
jewelry industry.
On our last call we identified a number of factors that we believed affected sales in the Americas ranging from restrained spending by customers employed in the financial sector to substantial competitive discounting which we believe has continued to particular softness in entry-level silver jewelry price points tied to resistance to price increases.
We think those factors are all still relevant.
In addition the first quarter finished on a softer note that we attribute to a difficult year-over-year comparison to strong growth in April 2011 which may have been related to at least some degree to the timing of Mother's Day which occurred on May 8 last year and May 13 this year.
In terms of customer mix it was higher foreign tourist spending that drove the modest Americas sales increase in the quarter versus suspending by domestic customers.
In fact our stores in Hawaii and Guam saw the largest increase.
Conversely we noted that foreign tourist spending in the New York flagship store was equal to the prior year as increased sales to Asian visitors were offset by lower sales to Europeans and other tourists.
In the Americas region beyond the U.S.
sales were up in Canada and we had strong sales growth in Mexico where we have 8 stores and Brazil with our 3 stores.
We added 3 stores in the Americas in the first quarter including one in the newly opened City Creek Center in Salt Lake City one in Montréal in the Ritz-Carlton Hotel and one in Mexico in the Palacio De Hierro's Interlomas department store.
Six more stores in the Americas are planned for later this year.
Lastly combined e-commerce and catalog sales in the Americas rose 1% in the quarter due to an increase in the average sales per order.
The increase was slightly below our expectation but came on top of a 14% increase last year.
Let's now turn to the Asia Pacific region which posted a solid 17% sales increase in the first quarter that was virtually in line with our expectation and was mostly due to increased unit volume as well as some increase in the average price per unit sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 16% with double-digit sales increases in most countries.
Local currency comp store sales rose 10% despite going up against a substantial 26% increase last year.
While we acknowledge that sales growth trends in China for Tiffany as well as others in the luxury industry have decelerated from the extraordinarily strong rates last year due to both difficult comparisons and some softening in economic growth we certainly remain enthusiastic about Tiffany's long-term sales growth potential with that important consumer segment.
During the quarter we opened our 17th store in China in Wuhan and are planning to add 7 additional Asia Pacific stores later in the year.
Turning to Japan.
Total sales rose 15% in the first quarter due to an increase in the average price per unit sold as well as a decent increase in unit volume.
Excluding the translation effect of the yen which was 2% stronger than a year ago total sales in yen rose 13% in the quarter and comp store sales rose 12% which exceeded our expectation.
In last year's first quarter we were affected by the tragic earthquake and tsunami which led to a temporary drop in sales in March and a 3% comp decline for the quarter.
Sales growth had resumed a month later and it has continued to increase since then.
And the 12% comp growth in the quarter reflected healthy increases across Japan although with somewhat greater strength in the Tokyo region.
During the quarter we relocated one of our stores from within one department store to another in Tokyo's Shinjuku district but the total number of stores we operate in Japan remained at 55.
Economic conditions in Europe are obviously less than ideal but we achieved a somewhat better-than-expected 3% sales increase in the quarter due to an increase in the average price per unit sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis total European sales rose 7% and comps were equal to the prior year which was on top of a 15% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
Geographically the unchanged comp in the quarter was equally reflective of both the U.K.
and overall continental Europe.
Actually the strongest sales growth was in Germany while in London the softest store not surprising to us was in the Royal Exchange in the city which caters to customers employed in the financial industry.
The European store count remained at 32 in the quarter.
Rounding out the sales review is other sales which declined 14% in the quarter due to lower wholesale sales to independent distributors as we prepare to commence operations of stores in the UAE.
We are pleased to have finalized our joint venture agreement with Damas Jewellery and through that JV we'll assume operating control of the 5 Tiffany stores in Abu Dhabi and Dubai later in the second quarter.
That covers the sales review by segment.
On a worldwide basis our price stratification analysis in the first quarter indicated no meaningful differences in rates of sales growth by price point.
From a global merchandising perspective there were a few highlights worth mentioning.
We continue to achieve a healthy increase in engagement jewelry sales.
Growth in fine and fashion jewelry sales reflected the enormous appeal of our Yellow Diamond Collection as well as the popularity of gold jewelry.
And we're very pleased with initial customer reaction to our recently updated 1837 collection which showcases the new RUBEDO metal.
Growth in designer jewelry sales reflected the success of Paloma Picasso's designs including her new Villa Paloma and her Venezia Collection.
And beyond jewelry we're pleased with the sales momentum of our leather goods collection.
There are additional introductions to the pipeline for later in the year.
That wraps up the sales review.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Pat.
Thank you Mark.
As you just heard first quarter sales mostly in the Americas were a bit below what we had initially expected.
As a result we have adjusted our expectation for the next couple of quarters.
It probably goes without saying but those sales results certainly do not affect any of our exciting plans for store expansion product launches or the pursuit of market share growth opportunities in 2012.
Looking at the rest of the income statement.
Gross margin declined by 1 point in the quarter to 57.3%.
The decline was based on higher product acquisition costs from last year as we had expected and previously communicated.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 9% in the quarter.
Excluding roughly $8 million of nonrecurring costs in last year's first quarter related to the relocation of our New York headquarter staff SG&amp;A expenses rose 11% year-over-year due to higher labor occupancy and marketing spending all of which resulted in an increase in the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to sales.
Other expenses net of $10.5 million in the quarter were virtually unchanged from the prior year and the effective tax rate in the quarter came in as expected at 34.5% versus 35.6% last year.
Adding it up net earnings rose 1% in the quarter.
However excluding last year's nonrecurring costs net earnings declined 5% versus our expectation for a slight increase due to the sales shortfall in the Americas.
Looking at our balance sheet.
Accounts receivable are in good shape increasing 3% at April 30 from a year ago with receivables turning at 20x per year.
The more significant use of working capital has been in net inventories which at April 30 were 27% higher than a year ago.
Part of that overall increase was due to higher product acquisition costs.
In addition the 16% year-over-year increase in finished goods was due to store openings and expanded product assortment and of course some effects from the softer-than-expected sales growth.
The larger increase in inventories was in raw material and work in process up 44% year-over-year due to the continued expansion of our rough diamond supply chain and internal jewelry manufacturing.
We now expect net inventory growth of about 10% for the full year versus 15% previously as we make adjustments tied to our lowered sales expectations.
Capital expenditures of $44 million were modestly lower than the $52 million a year ago.
We bought back some of our shares during the first quarter spending $46 million to purchase approximately 700 000 shares at an average cost of $66.42 per share.
As a result of that various spending our cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $343 million at April 30 and was lower than a year ago.
Total short-term and long-term debt of $834 million was higher than a year ago and represented 35% of stockholders' equity.
We continue to achieve solid returns on assets and equity with ROA running at 11% and ROE at 19% through the first quarter and we were pleased that Tiffany's Board of Directors last week approved a 10% increase in the quarterly dividend rate.
That represented the 11th dividend increase in the past decade.
Before turning to our financial outlook for the rest of the year I want to make sure you are all aware of the disclosure we made in our report on Form 8-K filed yesterday with the SEC regarding the potential acquisition of Elsa Peretti's intellectual property rights.
Please see the 8-K filing on our website for more details.
Now let's review our full year outlook.
We indicated in today's news release that the sales in the first few weeks of the second quarter are increasing by a low single-digit percentage.
We are experiencing the difficult comparisons to extremely strong growth at this time last year especially in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions as well as decelerating rates of economic growth in a number of countries that are affecting our results.
Based on results in the first quarter and revisions we have made from our initial outlook for the second and third quarters we are now expecting full year worldwide sales to increase about 7% to 8% for 2012 versus our previous 10% objective with the strongest growth occurring in the Asia Pacific region.
Our plans call for adding 24 Tiffany stores this year and as you heard we opened 4 in the first quarter.
For the rest of the year the 20 stores plan includes 6 additional stores in the Americas with leases finalized for a store in Manhattan's SoHo neighborhood a store in Rio de Janeiro and a store on Altavista Street in the south area of Mexico City.
We have 7 stores scheduled to open in Asia Pacific with leases finalized for a store in Bondi Junction Australia and a second store in Singapore's Changi Airport.
We'll have 2 additional stores in Europe with a store in Nice opening tomorrow and a store in Prague opening later this year.
A store planned to open in the Berlin airport is now delayed until early 2013 due to airport construction delays.
And we will soon begin to operate the 5 stores in the UAE in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
We have a strong lineup of product introductions planned for this year in a wide range of materials and price points including an Art Deco jewelry collection tied to the launch of The Great Gatsby movie and Tiffany's new Enchant jewelry collection with the designs inspired by the natural world in platinum gold and tanzanite.
Those and other introductions will receive strong marketing support both in print and digital media to create awareness among customers.
We now expect the operating margin for the full year to be modestly lower than last year's 20.6% which had excluded nonrecurring items.
We expect SG&amp;A expense growth after excluding the nonrecurring costs from last year to be somewhat below sales growth leading to an improvement of perhaps a 0.5 point in the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to sales but being more than offset by a decline in gross margin.
We are pleased to see precious metal and diamond costs stabilizing in recent months which if it continues should bode well for gross margin by the fourth quarter and into next year but not before then.
We are not currently anticipating taking any meaningful price increases for the rest of the year.
Also related to gross margins I'm pleased to say that our manufacturing facilities and distribution centers are operating efficiently to support our product needs in our stores and shipping to customers.
We believe we have sufficient room to leverage that infrastructure capacity and receive a margin benefit based on achieving solid sales growth.
Therefore we now expect earnings for the year to increase to a range of $3.70 to $3.80 with all of the year-over-year growth coming in the fourth quarter.
Our current expectation calls for earnings declines in the second and third quarters.
You should also note that of this $0.25 per share decrease in our full year guidance approximately $0.20 is related to a reduction in our operating expectations while $0.05 is tied to the expected cost of additional debt incurred for working capital repayment of maturing debt and general corporate purposes.
Our initial sales plan primarily for the Americas but also for Asia Pacific did not factor in enough of the difficult year-over-year comparisons as well as more recently the economic conditions in sales trends that have softened in some markets in Asia Pacific and elsewhere.
We believe those conditions may remain soft for the next couple of quarters.
As a reminder local currency comp store sales in the second and third quarters of last year had increased 23% and 15% respectively in the Americas and 41% and 36% respectively in Asia Pacific.
The adjustments we've made in our new sales outlook take into account soft macro conditions and those difficult year-over-year comparisons in the next 2 quarters.
Despite the challenges we are addressing in 2012 I want to emphasize that we remain committed to our longer-term financial objective to increase net sales by 10% to 12% annually and net earnings by at least 15% per year.
We believe that our company now in its 175th year is better positioned than ever to achieve greater prominence in our industry.
Thank you for listening to today's conference call.
Please call Mark with any questions and also note that we expect to report Tiffany's second quarter results on Monday August 27.
Here's Mark to close the call.
Thanks Pat.
That concludes our remarks.
But if you missed any portion of this call a replay will be available today beginning at 10:30 a.
m.
Eastern Time and running through May 31.
The number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 when calling from outside the U.S.
The passcode is 4057832.
The replay is also on our website at tiffany.com/investor.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Co.
Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Mr.
Patrick McGuiness Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time it is my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good day everyone and thanks for joining us.
On today's call Pat and I will review second quarter results and comment on the full year financial outlook.
Before continuing please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's review the results.
When we reported first quarter results on May 24 we indicated that worldwide sales in the first few weeks of the second quarter were increasing by a low-single-digit percentage and that we expected net earnings in the second quarter to decline from the prior year when excluding last year's nonrecurring costs.
The overall results we report today were in line with those internal expectations.
Net worldwide sales rose 2% led by strong growth in Japan while sales in the Americas Asia Pacific and Europe were virtually equal to the prior year.
And while net earnings on a GAAP basis rose 2% adjusted net earnings declined 17% from the prior year which was about what we expected when excluding nonrecurring costs in last year's second quarter related to the relocation of our New York headquarters staff.
The year-over-year comparisons we faced in the quarter could not have been much more difficult so it's worth reminding you that in last year's second quarter worldwide sales had increased 30% net earnings had increased 33% and net earnings excluding nonrecurring costs had surged 58%.
Let's now look at second quarter sales by region.
In the Americas total sales declined 1% in the quarter.
An increase in the average price per unit sold was offset by a decline in unit volume.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales were equal to the prior year and comp store sales were down 5% on top of a 23% comp increase last year.
Of that 5% comp decline in the quarter brand store comps were down 4% on top of a 19% increase last year with most regions performing in a relatively narrow band except for solid growth in Florida Texas and our Pacific market of Hawaii and Guam.
Sales in the New York flagship store declined 9% on top of a staggering 41% increase last year.
Data published by MasterCard Spendingpulse continues to indicate weak customer spending for the entire U.S.
jewelry industry and most pronounced among the high-tier jewelers.
From a customer mix perspective the sales decline in the U.S.
in the quarter was entirely due to lower spending by local customers.
While overall sales to foreign tourists were roughly unchanged from the prior year higher sales to Japanese and Chinese visitors were offset by a decline in spending by European tourists in the U.S.
which obviously affected the New York flagship store as well.
Also in the Americas region total sales rose in Canada although comps declined while we had strong growth in local currency comps in Latin America.
Beyond stores combined e-commerce and catalog sales in the Americas rose 3% in the quarter due to an increase in the average sales per order.
That was on top of a 16% increase last year.
I'm pleased to add that based on successful results measured both quantitatively and creatively from a test mailing of a new catalog format we did earlier this year our catalogs will soon have a fresh new look starting with the upcoming holiday season.
During the quarter we added one store in the Americas when we opened our ninth store in Mexico in the Altavista neighborhood of Mexico City.
In the second half of the year we will be adding 3 stores in the U.S.
1 in Brazil and 5 in Canada which now includes converting from wholesale distribution 4 Tiffany boutiques in Holt Renfrew department stores into company-operated locations.
Turning to the Asia Pacific region total sales rose 1% in the second quarter resulting from increased unit volume with an offsetting decline in the average price per unit sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales increased 3% and comp store sales in local currencies declined 5% which compared with an extraordinary 41% comp increase in last year's second quarter.
Australia posted the strongest growth in the quarter in contrast to softness in Hong Kong tied to restrained Chinese consumer spending and softness in Korea.
We remain enthusiastic about Tiffany's longer-term potential in China and we continued to expand our store base in the second quarter by opening our 18th and 19th stores there one in Nanjing and the other in Shanghai's Grand Gateway mall which represents our fifth store in that city.
We have 5 additional stores on track to open in the Asia Pacific region in the second half of the year.
Among our various regions the strongest performance in the quarter came from Japan where total sales rose 11% due to a healthy increase in jewelry unit volume and an increase in the average price per unit sold.
In local currency both total sales and comparable store sales rose 10% in the quarter.
This came on top of an 8% comp in last year's second quarter.
Sales growth was broad-based throughout Japan with no significant variations by region.
The number of Tiffany stores in Japan remained unchanged.
Turning to Europe total sales declined 1% in the quarter due to a modest decline in units although mixed by category and a small increase in the average price per unit sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total European sales increased 8% and comp store sales rose 2% which was on top of an 11% comp increase in the second quarter of last year.
Considering the obvious challenging economic conditions we're pleased with our European results although we do acknowledge that sales are getting a boost from non-European tourists who are offsetting spending declines by local customers in some markets.
By market sales growth in Germany France and some other countries was largely offset by weakness in the U.K.
and Italy.
We opened one European store during the quarter when we entered the south of France with a store in Nice and initial results are very encouraging.
We plan to open one more European store later in the year.
Lastly other sales increased 12% in the second quarter.
In addition to increased wholesale sales to independent distributors in certain markets we assumed control in July of 5 Tiffany stores in the United Arab Emirates 3 in Dubai and 2 in Abu Dhabi.
We are now operating those stores and recording the retail sales and expenses as opposed to previously recording wholesale sales.
As we expected it will take some time for us to get that business fully up to speed but we are pleased with initial results and very excited about long-term prospects throughout the Middle East.
That wraps up the regional sales review.
From a global merchandising perspective most product categories posted sales that were relatively close to last year's levels.
In addition our worldwide price stratification analysis in the second quarter indicated fluctuating demand at various price point levels from which we can't draw any conclusions.
Not to belabor the point but the year-over-year comparisons were tough in pretty much all product categories and therefore difficult to analyze.
There are quite a few exciting product introductions coming in the next few months that Pat will address shortly.
Let's now look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 56.3% in the second quarter was 2.7 points below last year and virtually on our expectations mostly tied to higher product acquisition costs from last year as well as the lack of sales leverage on fixed costs.
SG&amp;A expenses in the quarter on a GAAP basis declined 8% from last year.
However excluding roughly $34 million of nonrecurring costs in the second quarter of last year related to the relocation of our New York headquarters staff SG&amp;A expenses rose but only by 1% which was modestly below our expectation and not indicative of future increases as higher store occupancy costs were mostly offset by the timing of marketing spending.
Other expenses net of $14.3 million in the second quarter were $4.6 million above the prior year.
This primarily resulted from increased interest expense.
Tiffany's effective tax rate in the quarter came in at the expected 34.6%.
The prior year rate of 31.2% had reflected a reversal of the tax valuation allowance.
In total second quarter net earnings increased 2% on a GAAP basis but excluding last year's nonrecurring costs declined 17% which was in line with our last forecast.
I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Pat.
Thanks Mark.
While Tiffany's sales growth in the second quarter was restrained due to both macroeconomic reasons and difficult year-over-year comparisons we were pleased that operating results met our expectations.
From a balance sheet perspective during the quarter we took advantage of attractive interest rates to secure $250 million of long-term debt with principal payments due over a 10- to 30-year period at a coupon of 4.4%.
Of the $250 million of proceeds $60 million went toward repaying in full our 6.56% senior notes that came due.
The remaining $190 million of proceeds is for general corporate purposes including reducing short-term debt outstanding under our revolving credit facility.
At July 31 our cash cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $367 million versus $565 million a year ago.
Short-term and long-term debt totaled $940 million versus $694 million a year ago and total debt represented 39% of stockholders' equity versus 29% a year ago.
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were in very good shape declining 6% from the prior year and the receivables turnover remained at a very high 18x per year.
The largest use of cash over the past year has been in net inventories which were up 21% from July 31 last year.
By stages of inventory there were similar rates of growth for both finished goods and combined raw material and work in process reflecting higher product acquisition costs new store openings expanded product assortments and an expansion of our rough diamond supply chain and internal jewelry manufacturing.
We continue to expect net inventories to increase approximately 10% for the full year and we continue to exceed our objective for returns on assets and equity.
ROA was 11% and ROE was 19% through the second quarter.
I now want to review the full year outlook.
Starting at the top we are now projecting net worldwide sales growth of 6% to 7% for the year versus our previous expectation of 7% to 8% growth.
We moderated our sales growth expectation for the fourth quarter in Asia Pacific and the Americas to reflect lingering economic uncertainties.
At the moment we continue to compare against unusually strong growth in most regions at this time last year as well as challenging economic conditions in a number of countries.
We believe we have appropriately considered those factors in our current forecast.
Our full year plan now calls for adding 28 Tiffany-operated stores versus 24 previously which are inclusive of the 13 stores we added in the first half of the year.
In the second half of the year we have exciting plans in the Americas to open a store in Manhattan's SoHo neighborhood; a second store in San Francisco in the San Francisco Centre; a store in La Jolla California; a store in Rio de Janeiro and a third store in Toronto in Sherway Gardens.
On top of that we recently completed an agreement to directly operate 4 existing Tiffany boutiques within Holt Renfrew department stores that were previously operated on a wholesale basis.
Earlier this month we began operation of the stores in Ottawa Montréal and Calgary and we'll begin to operate a shop in their Vancouver store later in the year.
In Asia Pacific we plan to open a store in Bondi Junction Australia a second store in Singapore's Changi Airport and new stores in China in Harbin Shenyang and Tianjin.
And in Europe we will soon enter the Czech Republic when we open a store in Prague next month.
We have an attractive lineup of product introductions planned for the second half of the year including Tiffany's new Enchant jewelry collection with designs inspired by the natural world and crafted in platinum and diamonds with rose gold and tanzanite.
At the same time we will be expanding our assortment of yellow diamond jewelry and we're introducing pink diamond accents to a number of our collections.
Building on the success of RUBEDO which we introduced in the newly designed 1837 collection launched earlier this year we will also be incorporating RUBEDO into our iconic Return to Tiffany collection.
This fall we will be introducing a spectacular collection of new statement jewelry and we're pleased with the recent launch of Tiffany Harmony engagement rings and wedding bands which are currently offered exclusively in Japan.
We've postponed the launch of jewelry designs that we created in relation to the premiere of the movie The Great Gatsby.
The movie's premiere originally scheduled for December was recently moved to the middle of 2013 and it makes sense for our product launch to coincide with the marketing surrounding the movie's premiere.
The lack of expected sales revenues for those collections should not have any meaningful effect on our fourth quarter results.
Moving down the earnings statement we continue to expect that the full year operating margin will be below last year's 20.6% which had excluded nonrecurring items.
That is based on assumptions for a gross margin decline and that SG&amp;A expense growth after excluding the nonrecurring cost from last year will be roughly in line with sales growth.
Product cost pressure is moderating and we expect to soon benefit from reductions over the past year in precious metal and diamond costs.
An expected year-over-year gross margin decline in the third quarter should be smaller than we experienced in the second quarter and we expect gross margin to increase in the fourth quarter although any product mix changes could offset some of it.
We did not take any meaningful price increases in the first half of the year nor do we anticipate doing so for the rest of the year.
Therefore we now expect net earnings for the year in a range of $3.55 to $3.70 per diluted share down from our previous guidance of $3.70 to $3.80 per diluted share with earnings declining in the third quarter as we had previously forecast followed by a resumption of growth in the fourth quarter.
As I mentioned before our reduced earnings forecast for the year primarily reflects a more conservative assumption for sales growth in the fourth quarter as well as the related margin effect from less sales leverage.
We believe our new guidance incorporates an appropriate degree of near-term caution at this point in time.
Longer term our management team remains enthusiastic about the opportunities we are pursuing in store expansion product introductions and marketing that will contribute to solid growth.
The challenges we are facing this year are pretty obvious but I want to emphasize that we remain committed to achieving our longer-term financial objectives to increase net sales by 10% to 12% annually and net earnings by at least 15% per year.
We believe that Tiffany &amp; Co.
is well positioned to achieve those objectives.
Thank you for listening to today's conference call.
Please note that we expect to report Tiffany's third quarter results on Thursday November 29.
Here's Mark to close the call.
Thanks Pat.
That concludes our presentation.
If you missed any portion of this call a replay will be available today beginning at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time and running through September 3.
The number to call is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 from outside the U.S.
The pass code is 5053349.
The replay is also on our website at tiffany.com/investor.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Co.
Third Quarter Conference Call.
Participating on the call today are Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations; and Mr.
Patrick McGuiness Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and welcome to this conference call.
We hope you've had an opportunity by now to review the news release that we issued earlier today.
On this call Pat and I will take you through a review of the third quarter results and also comment on the updated full year outlook.
Before continuing please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's talk about the results.
In summary a 4% increase in worldwide net sales in the third quarter was virtually on our expectation with some offsets by region.
The gross margin declined more than we expected.
SG&amp;A spending was very close to our expectation but the effective tax rate was higher than expected.
All of this resulted in net earnings of $63 million which were 30% below the prior year and below the expectation that was embedded in our previous annual guidance.
While these results partly reflect the weak consumer demand in a number of markets among other factors let's remember that we also faced very difficult year-over-year comparisons when net sales had increased 21% and net earnings had grown 52% excluding nonrecurring items in last year's third quarter.
But having said that these results were below what we had forecast.
Let's start by reviewing third quarter sales by region which ranged from modest growth on a constant-exchange-rate basis in the Americas Japan and Asia Pacific to solid growth in Europe.
In the Americas sales rose 3% with an increase in average price partly offset by lower jewelry unit volume.
Not to minimize the unit decline but it is worth noting that the entire volume drop was in silver jewelry at price points below $500 while every other jewelry category at higher price strata posted increased volume.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis sales also rose 3% and comparable store sales rose 1% which was on top of a 15% comp in last year's third quarter.
Despite the tough comparison this was still below our expectation.
Geographically Americas branch store comps declined 1% but had a difficult comparison to a 13% comp increase last year.
Most markets performed in a narrow range and there were no noteworthy market deviations from the norm.
Sales in the New York flagship store rose 5% on top of a 24% increase last year benefiting from some growth in sales to foreign tourists and U.S.
customers.
While we can no longer report foreign tourism data for the U.S.
in its entirety due to legal restrictions on the collection of customer data in several of our important markets sales to foreign visitors will continue to be of growing importance to certain of our U.S.
stores.
In early October we had hosted a successful selling event in New York for Tiffany's highest spending customers.
Their marked enthusiasm was encouraging.
In the last few days of the quarter sales were obviously affected by Hurricane Sandy which caused the temporary closing of 24 of our U.S.
stores from D.C.
up to Boston.
Most stores reopened within a few days as power was restored in their markets.
The New York flagship itself was closed for 2 days.
It's hard to know how much of a residual effect on sales might be felt in the fourth quarter but regional management has factored some into their latest forecast.
Most important the hurricane was a tragic occurrence for millions of people and our thoughts are with those who have suffered from it.
Elsewhere in the Americas comp store sales declined in Canada but we achieved double-digit comp store sales growth on a constant-exchange-rate basis in both Mexico and Brazil.
During the quarter we added 7 stores in the Americas region including our new SoHo store in Manhattan; a store in the San Francisco Centre marking our second in that city; a store in Sherway Gardens which is our third store in Toronto; and we converted 4 locations in Holt Renfrew department stores in Canada and Calgary Montréal Ottawa and Vancouver from wholesale distribution to company-operated stores.
We now operate a total of 11 stores in Canada.
Rounding out the region our combined Internet and catalog sales in the Americas rose modestly in the quarter.
We recently mailed a newly designed catalog with a fresh and enticing look that customers should be seeing in their mailboxes around now.
Please let me know if you'd like a copy.
Without a doubt the most difficult year-over-year sales comparison we had in the quarter was in the Asia Pacific region but sales did meet our expectations.
Total sales rose 2% in the quarter driven by higher jewelry unit volume in all categories and a small decline in average price.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales also rose 2% and comp store sales declined 4% on top of a huge 36% comp increase last year.
Tiffany is certainly not alone in experiencing some softness in Chinese consumer spending due to a plethora of economic and other factors.
Geographically the softness in Greater China especially in Hong Kong mostly offset modest growth in other Asia Pacific markets.
Notwithstanding what we have seen this year we remain confident that China will experience significant economic growth in the years ahead and that the Chinese will continue to increase in importance as customers of Tiffany and other luxury goods purveyors.
During the quarter we added 2 new stores in China in Harbin and Shenyang and opened our second store in Singapore's Changi Airport.
We were pleased with our performance in Japan with sales in the quarter fractionally higher than last year and meeting our expectations.
Higher average price offset lower jewelry unit volume.
In yen total sales rose 3% and comps rose 5% on top of a 4% increase last year.
Sales growth was a bit stronger in the Tokyo region than elsewhere.
During the quarter we opened a new department store location in Chiba that replaces a soon-to-be closed shop in a different department store.
We were also pleased with the results in Europe where sales rose 6% in the quarter due to a combination of increased price and a slight increase in jewelry unit volume.
This exceeded our expectations.
In constant currencies European sales rose 11% and comp stores sales rose 8% on top of a 6% comp increase from last year's third quarter.
Geographically local currency comp store sales growth throughout Continental Europe except Italy more than offset some softness in the U.K.
The sales increase benefited from higher foreign tourist sales.
During the quarter we added our 34th location in Europe when we opened a store in Prague.
And just a few weeks ago we were excited to announce that we will open a flagship store in Paris on the magnificent Champs-Elysées in 2014.
While we have developed a successful but still relatively small business in Paris over the past decade we believe this store will take Tiffany's presence to new heights by providing an extraordinary location and experience to international visitors and French customers.
Lastly our other sales increased 73% in the third quarter.
This mostly reflected the realignment in the second quarter when we converted 5 Tiffany stores in the United Arab Emirates from previously wholesale distribution to now company-operated stores in which we record retail sales and expenses.
We are progressing very well in making merchandising marketing and service enhancements as part of our longer-term plan to develop a significant presence in the Middle East.
That concludes the regional sales review.
From a product and pricing perspective we achieved growth in sales and units at most price points above $500.
Therefore from a product category perspective sales of silver jewelry continued to be the weakest category.
At higher price points we posted modest sales growth in engagement rings and wedding bands.
Designer jewelry sales were up.
In the fine and fashion jewelry categories we're seeing good growth in our expanding Yellow Diamonds collection the Enchant jewelry collection is enjoying a good launch and the 1837 collection with the new RUBEDO metal is doing well.
As we said 3 months ago the difficult year-over-year comparisons in most categories make it challenging to assess more fundamental performance except to say that sales of higher price point jewelry continue to outperform entry-level silver jewelry.
Supporting product sales is a robust marketing campaign.
Our advertising through print and digital media and catalogs always showcases the extraordinary beauty and range of our product offerings.
But this year and next the advertising also highlights Tiffany's 175th anniversary and our heritage.
An eye-catching example of that advertising is in the November issue of Vogue magazine where we ran an unprecedented 10-page opening spread about the legacy gemstones of Tiffany.
If you haven't seen the ad please contact me for a copy.
And I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Pat.
Thanks Mark for that sales review.
I will now take everyone through the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 54.4% in the third quarter was below the 57.9% gross margin in last year's third quarter.
We are already forecasting a margin decline in the quarter but this is more than we expected.
So what changed from our previous forecast? Part of it was higher-than-expected product cost tied to the sales mix by product category.
In essence our sales of fashion jewelry specifically silver jewelry were softer than we expected and this slower turn meant that lower silver cost did not flow through the earnings statement as quickly as we had expected.
In addition a product sales mix that is skewed towards higher-priced lower margin products puts pressure on gross margin and we are not yet seeing the benefit we expected from lower diamond cost flowing through the system.
We saw some reduced leveraging of fixed expenses but we expected that due to the modest sales growth.
As a result the lower gross margin cost us about $0.08 per share of earnings in the quarter.
We expect that gross margin will improve as we flow through the lower product cost by the end of this year but fourth quarter margin will still be lower than last year's fourth quarter.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 5% in the third quarter.
This was close to what we expected due to the growth in store occupancy and marketing spending.
Higher labor cost in the quarter were mostly offset by reduced variable incentive compensation.
The ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to net sales was 40.7% versus 40.1% in last year's third quarter.
Other expenses net of $14.8 million were up from $10.4 million last year and in line with what we expected.
This reflected higher interest expense related to increased debt which included the $250 million of long-term debt with a 4.4% coupon that we issued during the second quarter.
The effective tax rate of 38.4% in the third quarter was up from a rate of 33.9% in last year's third quarter.
The higher-than-expected rate was primarily due to the true-up of the prior year's tax provision upon filing our tax return as well as some changes in our geographic mix of earnings that affected our overall tax rate.
The higher rate was equivalent to about $0.03 in earnings per share.
Adding it all up the modest sales growth the lower gross margin and the higher effective tax rate resulted in net earnings of $63 million being 30% below last year's third quarter and below our internal forecast.
Return on average stockholders' equity was 17% on a trailing basis and return on average assets was 10%.
While the near-term economic outlook remains uncertain we do think we are well positioned for the holiday season and we are moving forward with exciting store product and marketing plans that will benefit Tiffany over the longer term and we have the financial means to pursue those initiatives.
Looking at our balance sheet we finished the third quarter with $346 million of cash cash equivalents and short-term investments versus $297 million a year ago.
Total short-term and long-term debt was $978 million versus $709 million a year ago.
And that total debt represented 40% of stockholders' equity versus 31% a year ago.
And as we noted in today's news release we did not repurchase any of our shares in the third quarter.
Net inventories of $2.3 billion at October 31 were 11% higher than a year ago.
Looking more closely at it finished goods inventories were up 17% from last year while the total of raw materials and working process inventories were 2% above last year.
These increases reflected a variety of factors primarily new store openings expanded product assortments and higher product acquisition costs.
Looking at inventory growth sequentially we have experienced decelerating rate of inventory growth over the past few quarters.
Net inventories at January 31 2012 were 28% over the prior year.
At April 30 they were 27% above the prior year.
At July 31 they were 21% above the prior year and they are now 11% higher than a year ago.
We project that net inventories at year end will be approximately 10% above the prior year.
Tiffany's 2 major distribution centers in New Jersey were closed for a few days after Hurricane Sandy which temporarily affected store replenishment and customer order fulfillment but they are now operating normally.
Now -- let's now turn to our financial outlook which we updated in today's news release.
We are now projecting full year sales to increase 5% to 6% versus our previous 6% to 7% forecast.
Our annual forecast implies that total sales growth in the fourth quarter will be in a mid- to high-single-digit range with a low- to mid-single-digit comp store sales increase.
While we have moderated our expectations for the Americas and Asia Pacific in the fourth quarter we are still looking for year-over-year sales growth in all regions.
By early December we have anniversaried all of last year's price increases.
So our fourth quarter forecast assumes improvement in unit volume growth primarily coming from the easier year-over-year comparisons.
We've been pleased overall with initial results in the stores we've opened in 2012.
We continue to project a net of 28 stores added in 2012 with just 4 more stores opening in the fourth quarter including 1 in La Jolla California which opened 2 weeks ago; our fourth store in Brazil in Rio de Janeiro; our sixth store in Australia and second in Sydney in Bondi Junction; and our 22nd store in China in the Galaxy Mall in Tianjin.
And we'll soon close a store in Chiba Japan that was replaced by a new one that opened in the third quarter.
As Mark alluded to earlier we have been very encouraged with initial customer reaction to our newly introduced jewelry collections this year.
This has included the launch of the new RUBEDO metal in our 1837 collection and which we have just now expanded into our Return to Tiffany collection; the new Enchant collection crafted in platinum with diamonds rose gold and tanzanite; the introduction of pink diamonds which expands our assortment of fancy-colored diamonds; Tiffany's Harmony collection of engagement rings and wedding bands which was launched exclusively in Japan and will be distributed globally next year; and we have expanded our Yellow Diamond collection and our assortment of important engagement jewelry.
We are projecting that operating margin for the full year will be lower than last year.
All of the decline will come from a lower gross margin with SG&amp;A expense growth in line with sales growth.
Adding it all up we now expect earnings in a range of $409 million to $435 million for the year or $3.20 to $3.40 per diluted share versus a previous forecast of $3.55 to $3.70 per diluted share.
About 1/3 of the delta comes from the third quarter shortfall and 2/3 comes from our reduced sales and gross margin assumptions for the fourth quarter.
This implies fourth quarter EPS in a range of $1.35 to $1.55 versus $1.39 per diluted share last year.
We are now almost halfway through the holiday season calendar but from a sales perspective the most important part of the holiday season is clearly still ahead of us.
Third quarter earnings were below what we had expected.
However the competitive advantages are in place for Tiffany to achieve better performance.
We will not compromise on our proven approach to investing in and managing our business for long-term success.
Thanks for listening to today's conference call.
Please note that we expect to report Tiffany's sales for the November-December holiday sales period on January 10.
Here is Mark again.
Thanks Pat.
That wraps up today's call.
If you missed any portion of it a replay will be available through December 7.
The number to call is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
The passcode is 5855458.
The replay is also on our website at tiffany.com/investor.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions.
We extend our season's greetings and best wishes for a happy new year to all of you.
Thanks for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to this Tiffany &amp; Co.
Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call are Mr.
Mike Kowalski Tiffany's Chairman and CEO; Mr.
Pack -- Pat McGuiness Tiffany's Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Tiffany's Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and welcome to this conference call.
We issued our financial results earlier today and hope that by now you've had an opportunity to review the news release.
On today's call Mike Pat and I will provide our insights into the fourth quarter and full year results and comment on Tiffany's plans and outlook for the coming year.
Before continuing please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provision that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now we can proceed with a multifaceted review of Tiffany's performance.
Taking a big picture view Tiffany's financial results in 2012 did not achieve the expectations we'd established at the start of the year.
Net sales rose 4% due to single-digit percentage growth in all regions although below initial expectations in the Americas and Asia Pacific and gross margin continued to be pressured by product input costs and unfavorable sales mix.
SG&amp;A expense growth was contained but in total net earnings per diluted share of $3.25 was 4% below 2011 on a GAAP basis and declined 10% when excluding nonrecurring items in 2011.
The conclusion to the year with 4% sales growth and only a slight earnings increase in the fourth quarter was also certainly not up to our normal performance standards.
Let's first look at sales by region.
In the Americas sales in the fourth quarter rose 2% which was consistent with the increase we had reported for the November December holiday season and reflected jewelry units equal to the prior year and a slight increase in the average price per unit sold.
For the full year total Americas sales also rose 2% on top of a 15% increase in 2011 as an increase in the average price per units sold was partly offset by decline in jewelry units sold primarily in silver jewelry.
The Americas region accounted for 48% of worldwide sales in 2012 versus 50% in 2011.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales rose 2% in both the quarter and year while comparable store sales declined 2% in both the quarter and year.
Geographically sales from the New York flagship store declined 3% in the fourth quarter while a 3% decline in the year went up against a 20% increase in 2011.
The New York flagship store accounted for 8% of worldwide sales in 2012.
For the quarter and year there were minimal changes in sales to U.S.
customers and foreign tourists.
Foreign tourist spending represented about 45% of the New York store sales in 2012 and the largest spending came from Asia Pacific-based visitors followed by customers from Europe.
While we can no longer report foreign tourists sales data for the U.S.
in its entirety due to legal restrictions on the collection of customer data in several states we believe that sales to foreign tourists which in 2011 was estimated at almost 1/4 of U.S.
sales will continue to be of growing importance in certain U.S.
and Canadian stores as we expand customer awareness of the Tiffany brand globally.
Americas brand store comps declined 2% in the fourth quarter and a 2% decline in the full year was up against an 11% comp increase in 2011.
There were no significant deviations from the norm in terms of geographical performance within the U.S.
in the quarter or full year.
Outside the U.S.
total sales rose in Canada but that reflected new stores while we saw a double-digit sales growth in Mexico and our business in Brazil continues to develop nicely.
In addition to our New York flagship store our next 3 largest stores by sales volume in the region in 2012 were in California in San Francisco and South Coast Plaza in Costa Mesa and on Michigan Avenue in Chicago.
We expanded our Americas store base by adding 13 locations in 2012.
In the U.S.
we opened 4 stores including 1 in Salt Lake City 2 in California in the San Francisco Centre and in La Jolla and our third store in Manhattan in SoHo.
In Canada we added 6 locations including 1 in Montréal's Ritz-Carlton Hotel a third store in Toronto in their Sherway Gardens Mall and the conversion of 4 department store boutiques in the Holt Renfrew department stores in Calgary Montréal Ottawa and Vancouver into company-operated locations.
We also opened 2 stores in Mexico in Mexico City in Altavista and a store in Rio de Janeiro's Village Mall marking our fourth location in Brazil.
And we finished 2012 with 115 stores in the Americas.
Beyond stores we grew our Americas e-commerce and catalog sales in 2012 with a 6% combined sales increase in the fourth quarter and 4% growth in the year driven by an increased average order size.
We introduced a newly designed and more elegant catalog in the fourth quarter which in conjunction with our brand strategy offers a somewhat higher average price point as compared to the traditional selections catalog that it replaced.
Let's now turn to the Asia-Pacific region which represented 21.4% of worldwide sales in 2012 up from 20.5% in 2011.
Sales rose 13% in the fourth quarter which was consistent with holiday period growth and rose 8% for the full year.
The quarterly increase was fueled by growth in jewelry units sold and in the average price per units sold while the annual increase was almost entirely driven by higher jewelry unit volume.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total Asia-Pacific sales rose 10% in the quarter and increased 8% in the full year.
Comps rose 6% in the quarter while a 2% comp increase for the year was on top of an enormous 27% comp increase in full year 2011.
In the quarter we experienced broad-based growth throughout Greater China and other markets and that was true to a lesser extent in the year.
The largest portion of the Asia-Pacific region is Greater China which represented a little more than 1/2 of the region's sales in 2012.
Our highest volume store by far in the Asia-Pacific region in 2012 was the one on Canton Road in Hong Kong.
We broadened Tiffany's presence in the region by adding 8 stores in 2012 and finished the year with 66 stores.
This included opening 6 stores in China in Harbin Nanjing Shanghai Shenyang Tianjin and Wuhan.
We also opened our second store in Sydney in Bondi Junction which represents our sixth store in Australia and a second store in Singapore's Changi Airport which helps us accommodate an increasingly mobile customer base.
As we've said before expanding Tiffany's store presence especially in China serves the dual purpose of generating local sales demand but also stimulating spending when Chinese customers travel to other regions.
Japan accounted for 17% of worldwide sales in 2012 and 2011.
Total sales declined 6% in the fourth quarter due to a decline in jewelry units mostly in entry-level price points and increased 4% in the year due to an increase in the average price per jewelry units sold.
However it's important to note the effect on translation from a recently weaker yen.
In the fourth quarter the yen was 8% weaker than the dollar even though it was only 2% weaker for the full year.
Looking at results on a constant-exchange-rate basis.
Both total sales and comp store sales in the fourth quarter rose 2% while for the full year total sales rose 6% and comps rose 7% on top of a 4% comp increase in 2011.
As Pat will discuss in his comments we have factored a negative translation effect into our plans for 2013.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 55 locations in 2012 with our flagship store in the Ginza generating 12% of total sales in Japan.
During the year we relocated 3 locations to other department stores in Tokyo; Chiba; and Umeda Osaka.
Now moving on to Europe.
That region accounted for 11.4% of worldwide sales in 2012 compared with 11.6% in 2011.
Total sales rose 3% in the fourth quarter slightly better than our holiday results and rose 3% in the full year primarily due to increases in both periods in the average price per jewelry units sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis in the fourth quarter total sales rose 3% and comparable store sales were equal to the prior year while for the year total sales increased 7% and comparable store sales rose 2%.
Sales in the United Kingdom accounted for 45% of total European sales in 2012 and our highest volume store in Europe is on Old Bond Street in London.
In both the quarter and year sales in overall Continental Europe led by growth in Germany modestly outpaced sales performance in the U.K.
Our sales in Europe are benefiting from foreign tourist spending in some markets especially in France and Spain.
That foreign tourist spending which we estimate accounts for about 1/4 of European sales is more than offsetting softness in local demand in some markets that is likely tied to soft economic conditions there.
We added 2 European stores in 2012: 1 in Nice representing our fourth store in France; and 1 in Prague marking our entry into the Czech Republic and we're very pleased with initial results.
We now operate 34 stores in Europe with a long runway for further store expansion.
And I'd like to specifically remind everyone that we will open a significant store on Paris' renowned Champs Elysées in 2014.
Tiffany's other sales nearly doubled in the fourth quarter and rose 41% in the full year.
As most of you know through a venture with Damas jewelers we converted 5 Tiffany stores in the United Arab Emirates 3 in Dubai and 2 in Abu Dhabi from wholesale distribution to company-operated locations in the second quarter and began recording retail sales of those stores.
We have fully renovated our major store in The Dubai Mall to the latest Tiffany standards and design and have increased inventory assortments and marketing activities.
We're encouraged with initial results and excited about the prospects for substantial long-term growth in that important region.
Let's wrap up the regional sales review with sales productivity in company-operated stores.
With 4% worldwide sales growth and 6% square footage growth there were pretty insignificant changes in overall and regional productivity.
On a worldwide basis sales per gross square foot remained at approximately $3 000 in 2012.
By region productivity was highest in the Asia-Pacific region at $4 500 but down from $4 700 in 2011; followed by Japan at $4 200 which was up from $4 100 in 2011; to Europe at $3 200 which was down from $3 400 in 2011; and then the Americas region which was unchanged at $2 300.
Beyond stores Tiffany now offers products on its websites in 13 countries.
Those combined sales represented 6% of total worldwide sales or 8% of sales in the countries in which they are operated which was consistent with the prior year.
We also have non-commerce informational sites in 5 additional countries.
And as we've said repeatedly our websites play an important role in our marketing communication to enhance brand and product awareness and drive store traffic.
Turning to a few merchandising highlights for 2012.
We saw our sales mix continue to evolve toward mid- to higher-priced products reflecting our strategic initiative for a number of years to elevate the Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand.
Most product categories performed relatively close to our 4% worldwide sales growth but for a variety of reasons the relatively weaker category was in silver jewelry especially at price points below $500.
Looking at some specific examples.
Engagement jewelry sales were generally in line with overall company sales growth in 2012.
We were encouraged with the successful albeit limited introduction of the Harmony engagement collection in Japan which is now being rolled out worldwide.
We were also pleased with the continued success of our yellow diamond collection the new Enchant diamond jewelry collection and our reintroduced 1837 collection with the new RUBEDO metal.
But as I just mentioned the sterling silver jewelry category at entry-level price points under $500 has lagged overall company sales growth.
That is partly due to an ongoing brand strategy that has primarily focused our product development and marketing on mid- to higher-priced categories and likely also reflects pressure on the more economically-sensitive silver jewelry purchaser.
Mike will talk a bit more about plans for that category in his remarks.
Designer jewelry sales rose in the year reflecting the extraordinary designs of Elsa Peretti such as her beautifully classic Diamonds by the Yard collection; and Paloma Picasso with her new Villa Paloma and Venezia collections.
For a quantitative look at product categories sales mix by geography for 2012 please refer to the updated chart in our report on Form 10-K that will be available soon.
That concludes my comments so I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Pat McGuiness.
Thanks Mark for that comprehensive sales overview.
Before I review the rest of the earnings statement and balance sheet let's look at 2013's expectations starting with sales.
In our holiday sales announcement we've indicated that we would plan sales growth conservatively for 2013 and we think we have done just that.
In addition while year-over-year comparisons will be far less daunting compared to last year there is still plenty of global economic uncertainty that leads us to maintain a cautious outlook at this time.
We are planning worldwide sales to increase by 6% to 8% in dollars.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis this will be a high-single-digit percentage increase with total sales growth in all regions.
Sales growth ranges from a mid-teens percentage sales increase in Asia-Pacific to a low-single-digit percentage increase in Japan.
The only meaningful effect on sales that we expect from foreign currency translation in 2013 will be in Japan.
We are projecting the yen to average JPY 93 to $1 for 2013 versus an average of JPY 81 in 2012 leading to a 15% negative effect from translation.
While we hedge our transaction exposure to a weakening yen as it relates to a portion of inventory purchases made by Japan we do not hedge any translation exposure.
This will have a negative effect on sales and earnings and has been appropriately factored into our guidance.
Therefore the low-single-digit planned sales growth in yen will equate to a low-teens decline when translated and reported in U.S.
dollars.
Tiffany's gross margin underperformed our initial expectations in 2012 although we were encouraged that the margin in the fourth quarter began to show some improvement.
In the fourth quarter gross margin of 59.1% was 1.3 points lower than last year's 60.4%.
The decline resulted from several factors including the continuation of product sales mix skewed towards higher-price-point products which achieved lower gross margin unfavorable but diminishing higher product input costs and reduced leverage on the fixed expenses.
For the same reasons with varying degrees the full year gross margin of 57% was below last year's 59%.
The product input costs to which I'm referring reflect the slow inventory flow-through of higher commodity costs incurred over the past 1 to 2 years which have since moderated and stabilized.
At the same time we exhibited pricing restraint by not taking any meaningful increases in 2012 and as such did not fully mitigate commodity cost pressures.
We have recently been taking price increases around the world to alleviate pressure on gross margin in 2013.
We expect gross margin in 2013 to be modestly below 2012 as we expect to continue to experience a shift in product sales mix toward higher-priced lower-margin categories.
Selling general and administrative expenses were well controlled throughout 2012.
The majority of SG&amp;A expenses continue to be fixed in nature.
SG&amp;A expense rose 2% in the full year but increased 5% when excluding $43 million of nonrecurring costs in 2011 related to the relocation of our New York headquarters staff.
The 5% increase was due to store occupancy costs related to new and existing stores increased marketing spending and higher labor costs that was partially offset by substantially lower incentive compensation.
In the fourth quarter SG&amp;A expenses rose only 2% resulting in 0.7-point improvement in the expense ratio.
We are planning mid-single-digit SG&amp;A expense growth in 2013.
This largely reflects costs related to the 15 new stores we plan to open this year and annualizing costs of the 28 locations added in 2012.
Primarily due to the gross margin pressure experienced in 2012 Tiffany's operating margin declined to 18.4% for the full year compared with last year's 19.4% on a GAAP basis and 20.6% which excluded nonrecurring costs in 2011.
The operating margin of 23.5% in the fourth quarter was down from last year's 24.1% margin.
For 2013 we expect the modest decline in gross margin to be offset by an improvement in the expense ratio resulting in Tiffany's operating earnings growing in line with sales.
We still believe that there is considerable opportunity to improve the operating margin over the longer term returning to previous peak levels and beyond by leveraging stronger sales growth against a largely fixed expense base.
Other expenses net increased to $14 million in the fourth quarter and $54 million in the full year from $13 million and $43 million in last year's fourth quarter and full year.
This largely reflected increased interest expense tied to higher average long-term debt borrowings.
During the year we took advantage of favorable interest rates and borrowed $250 million of 30-year long-term debt with principal payments beginning in 10 years at an interest rate of 4.4%.
We applied $60 million of the proceeds towards 6.56% maturing long-term debt and the remainder is for working capital and general corporate purposes.
We are estimating other expenses at approximately $58 million in 2013.
Tiffany's effective tax rates were 35% in the fourth quarter versus 34.5% last year and 35.3% in the full year compared to 34% in the full year of 2011.
We are estimating an effective tax rate of approximately 35% in 2013.
Looking at the bottom line.
When we reported holiday sales results in January we projected that EPS would likely be at the low end of our previous guidance of $3.20 to $3.40 per diluted share.
Consistent with that guidance net earnings in the full year were $3.25 per diluted share.
This compared with $3.40 per diluted share in 2011 and $3.60 when excluding nonrecurring costs related to the relocation of our New York headquarters staff in June 2011.
In that holiday sales announcement we also indicated that we were targeting earnings growth of 6% to 9% in 2013.
Based on the 2013 assumptions that I mentioned our finalized plan meets that target with EPS at $3.43 to $3.53 per diluted share from operations.
I want to point out that we expect net earnings to decline approximately 15% to 20% in the first quarter due to some continued but diminishing gross margin pressure and higher marketing-related costs from a major event.
However absent those pressures in subsequent quarters we expect net earnings growth in the second third and fourth quarters.
In addition this forecast excludes $0.05 per diluted share of expected first quarter charges for staffing and occupancy adjustments.
Despite the overall sales shortfall in 2012 we achieved most of our balance sheet objectives for the year and are planning for solid free cash flow generation in 2013.
We initially planned for a 15% increase in net inventories in 2012.
As the year progressed we moderated our inventory plans due to a lower-than-expected sales growth and projected a 10% inventory increase.
I'm pleased to say that net inventories of $2.2 billion at yearend were up 8% for the full year.
Finished goods inventory rose 13% in the year primarily due to the addition of stores and new products which included a meaningful expansion of our statement jewelry assortment.
Combined raw material and work-in-process inventories rose only 2% in the year.
We are projecting net inventories to increase approximately 5% in 2013 due to similar rates of growth in all stages of inventories.
Accounts receivables declined 5% in the year despite the 4% sales increase primarily due to the translation effects from the weakening Japanese yen in the latter part of 2012.
Capital expenditures of $220 million in 2012 represented 6% of sales which is indicative of our long-term CapEx run rate.
This was a modest decrease from the $239 million we spent in 2011.
Despite higher spending in 2012 for increased store expansion and renovations the year-over-year decline reflected costs for relocating our New York headquarters staff in 2011.
We are projecting approximately $230 million of CapEx in 2013.
Putting it all together free cash flow which we define as cash flow from operating activities minus CapEx was an inflow of $109 million in 2012 compared with an outflow of $29 million in 2011.
The improved cash flow was due to a lower rate of inventory growth.
We are planning for positive free cash flow of approximately $300 million in 2013.
At yearend we had $505 million of cash and cash equivalents compared to $434 million at the previous yearend.
Combined short-term and long-term debt of $959 million at January 31 2013 was up from $712 million at the previous yearend.
As I mentioned earlier we added $250 million of long-term debt during the year and paid off $60 million of maturing long-term debt.
Stockholders' equity rose to $2.6 billion from $2.3 billion a year ago.
As a result total debt was 37% of stockholders' equity versus 30% a year ago.
We also returned cash to stockholders in 2012 in 2 ways.
Our board approved a 10% increase in the quarterly dividend rate representing the 11th increase in the past 10 years.
The annualized dividend rate of $1.28 per share would represent a 39% payout ratio on 2012's net earnings.
We also spent $54 million to repurchase 813 000 shares of common stock in the first half of the year before temporarily suspending purchases to more effectively allocate resources consistent with our growth strategies.
The board recently extended the expiration date to January 2014 for the currently authorized program which has $164 million available for future purchases.
Lastly 2 additional measurements that are important to us and stockholders are return on average assets which was 9% in 2012; and return on average stockholders' equity which was 17% in 2012.
Our long-term financial objective is continue to call for achieving at least a 10% ROA and at least a 15% ROE.
We believe that the sales and earnings growth plans that we have constructed for 2013 are achievable and the beginning of a turnaround from our disappointing 2012 results.
However we are not yet back to achieving our long -- longer-term objectives that continue to call for annual 10% to 12% sales growth and at least 15% earnings growth.
I am now pleased to turn the call over to Mike Kowalski.
Thanks Pat and Mark for your comments.
And good morning to everyone.
Clearly we were not pleased with Tiffany's financial results in 2012 which are not representative of how our company should perform in a more normalized operating environment.
We faced more difficult-than-expected comparisons to some very strong sales results in 2012.
We dealt with economic conditions in 2012 that were more challenging in some regions.
We saw a pronounced softness in sales of entry-level-priced silver jewelry.
And overall sales weakness led to a timing lag in realizing the benefit from a moderation in commodity costs.
At the same time we remain as diligent and focused as ever on maintaining and enhancing the renown of the Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand through the strategic management of our product category mix widening market communications and an expanded global presence through new stores as well as renovations of select existing stores.
And we are confident that investments in recent years in our product supply chain and infrastructure will ensure that we have the capacity to support our longer-term growth.
Strategic management of our product mix has served and will continue to serve to elevate our brand toward mid to higher price points.
As we began the celebration of Tiffany's 175th anniversary our product developments in 2012 continued to focus on higher-price-point opportunities both in gemstone jewelry and our -- in our gold and silver jewelry collections.
And of course we innovated with the beautiful new RUBEDO metal which is a luminescent alloy composed of copper gold and silver.
But maintaining the right strategic balance remains critical and you will see a range of exciting new designs in 2013 including silver -- sterling silver with entry-level price points below $500.
New designs in silver and gold are included in our dramatic reinterpretation of Tiffany's iconic Atlas collection debuting later in the year.
And as we prepare to celebrate Jazz Age glamour on the occasion of the springtime premier of the movie The Great Gatsby you'll see new designs in silver freshwater pearls and onyx in our Ziegfeld jewelry collection as well as higher-price-point fine jewelry in diamonds and platinum in The Great Gatsby collection.
And finally we'll also expand Tiffany's already-successful Jazz collection.
We are very excited about the worldwide rollout of Tiffany's Harmony engagement ring collection which enjoyed a very successful exclusive launch in Japan last year.
We will of course build on the success of our Enchant collection introduced last year; and our yellow diamonds that have enjoyed great success since being launched 3 years ago.
We have just introduced Paloma Picasso's new Olive Leaf jewelry collection inspired by the olive tree as a symbol of peace and prosperity.
The collection is being offered in yellow and white gold as well as in silver with diamonds and a wide variety of colored gemstones.
And we were delighted to have reached an agreement with Elsa Peretti last December to ensure that her extraordinary jewelry and tabletop designs will continue to be available exclusively at Tiffany for at least the next 2 decades.
We've spoken before about expanding our statement jewelry assortment and I'm excited to tell you that a selection of new truly extraordinary pieces will be available next month when we host a select group of Tiffany customers from around the world at our annual Blue Book event in New York.
That event will mark the pinnacle of Tiffany's 175th year anniversary celebrations.
Beyond jewelry we will of course be expanding our leather assortment in 2013 and we just recently introduced a beautiful spring collection of bags and accessories to our stores and websites.
And we continue to be delighted with Tiffany's eyewear business through our arrangement with Luxottica and we will be expanding our successful collections with designs that are inspired by our most popular jewelry collections.
And of course we remain absolutely committed to developing Tiffany's watch business.
Our marketing in 2013 will support new and iconic designs in all of our product categories.
Through advertising events catalogs and our famous window displays and our engagement ring app we have been and will continue to make it possible for our customers to engage with Tiffany around the world.
And we will debut a redesigned website in the second half of the year that will address overall changes in the digital landscape including social media and the increased use of mobile devices.
In 2012 we added 28 company-operated locations which increased our global store base by 11% and our square footage by 6%.
This included opening 19 new stores and converting 5 existing locations in the U.A.E.
and 4 locations in Canada from wholesale distribution to company-operated stores.
In the coming year we will further expand our global presence when we open 15 new stores and close 1 in Japan increasing our store base by 5%.
We are also focused on renovating a number of existing stores.
In the Americas we plan to open 5 new stores including 2 stores in the U.S.
in New Jersey's Garden State Plaza and in Cleveland's Eaton Shopping Center; another store in Canada in the West Edmonton Mall in Alberta; our 10th store in Mexico in Villahermosa; and our fifth store in Brazil in Curitiba.
And we are excited about the coming relocation this fall of our store on block -- Bloor Street in Toronto to a site one block west that will offer a more elegant and refined environment with less gross square footage but actually an increased amount of selling space.
We are planning 7 new stores in the Asia-Pacific region.
We have 4 stores planned in China including 1 in Jinan and 1 in Xi'an which will take us to 26 stores in China.
3 additional locations are slated for elsewhere in the region.
We plan to add 3 additional stores in Continental Europe which will bring us to 37 stores in that region by the end of the year.
Beyond new stores we believe there are also incremental sales and brand enhancement opportunities to be derived from existing but -- from renovating existing stores.
The objective of those renovations is to deliver the very best customer experience by creating retail environments that reflect the heritage of our brand and the evolving aesthetic sensibilities.
Store renovations are also excellent opportunities for us to ensure that store layouts are optimally planned and incorporate new sustainable technologies and materials.
We've entered 2013 with considerable enthusiasm.
We know that the Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand remains strong and is increasingly admired and desired by customers in existing markets and in new markets we enter around the world.
The universal desire among consumers for extraordinary product designs craftsmanship quality and shopping experience has not diminished and we believe in fact will grow stronger.
The Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand is very well positioned to serve those growing needs.
That concludes my remarks and I'll turn the call back over to Mark.
Thanks Mike and Pat.
That wraps up this conference call.
You can listen to a replay on our website or by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
or (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering pass code 5483461.
If you have any questions please feel free to call me.
Please also note on your calendars that we expect to report first quarter results on Tuesday May 28 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to this Tiffany &amp; Co.
First Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call are Mr.
Pat McGuiness Tiffany's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for joining us on today's conference call.
Pat and I will review first quarter results and also update you on our full year plans and outlook.
Before continuing please note Tiffany's Safe Harbor provisions that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now we can proceed with the review of Tiffany's performance.
It's safe to say that we are pleased to begin the year with better-than-expected sales and earnings.
Sales growth of 9% in dollars or 13% on a constant-exchange-rate basis was driven by solid performance in Japan Asia-Pacific and Europe but sales in the Americas were somewhat softer than we expected.
Gross margin although below last year due to product sales mix continued to benefit from diminishing product cost pressures as well as price increases that we implemented during the quarter across all regions and product categories.
SG&amp;A expense growth was well contained in the quarter and net earnings were up 3% on a GAAP basis.
However if you exclude expenses in the quarter tied to cost-reduction initiatives a 10% increase in net earnings was quite a bit better than our initial expectations for decline of 15% to 20%.
Please refer to our non-GAAP measures schedule in today's news release.
We're encouraged with the start of the year but caution you to not draw overly optimistic conclusions from the first quarter which generates a relatively small percentage of sales and earnings in comparison with annual results.
I'll now review sales by region.
In our largest region the Americas total sales rose 6% in the quarter to $408 million which was below our expectation.
In fact the 6% sales growth was entirely due to an increase in average price while unit growth in the higher-priced statement and fine jewelry was offset by unit declines at more moderate price point categories.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales also rose 6% and comparable store sales rose 3%.
Sales growth in the New York flagship store was higher than the region's increase as it particularly benefited from large purchases tied to our Blue Book event in April as well as from foreign tourism which represents almost half of that store's sales.
We are no longer quantifying specific sales performance for the New York store to be consistent with the way we report performance in our other regions and as it now represents only 8% of worldwide sales.
Elsewhere there was mixed performance around the Americas region but pronounced softness in the Hawaii and Guam stores that reflected less Japanese tourist spending.
But I'll address our business in Japan in a moment.
Our sales in Canada rose in the quarter partly due to higher statement jewelry sales and partly due to the conversion of 4 locations in the second half of last year from independently operated to company-operated stores.
Latin American sales were roughly equal to the prior year and we did not open any new stores in the first quarter and finished the quarter with 115 stores in the Americas.
In addition changes in e-commerce and catalog sales were not significant in the quarter and as we have said repeatedly those media are as much about the benefits derived from marketing as they are about generating sales.
Turning to the Asia-Pacific region.
Total sales increased by better-than-expected 15% to $223 million due to increases in average price as well as unit growth across all jewelry categories.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total Asia-Pacific sales rose 14% and comp store sales rose 9%.
We saw healthy sales growth across the region but led by particular strength in Hong Kong Korea and Singapore.
We opened a store in Xi'an China in the quarter and closed 1 in Taichung Taiwan finishing the quarter operating 66 stores in that region.
As we continue to expand Tiffany's store presence especially in China we're seeing the dual benefit of local sales demand as well as increased brand awareness which generates spending by Chinese customers when they travel to other regions.
Without a doubt Japan sales growth in the quarter exceeded expectations more than any other region.
In local currency total sales and comp store sales rose 20% and 21% respectively with considerable strength in engagement jewelry and other higher-price-point categories.
This was better than we expected and reflected considerably stronger growth in the latter half of the quarter.
However the yen was 18% weaker than the dollar in the quarter therefore in dollars sales rose 2% to $145 million due to an increase in average price while unit performance was varied with solid increases in higher-priced jewelry categories.
The yen is quoted this morning at JPY 102 to the $1.
We initially planned it at JPY 93 to $1 for the year but in light of the yen's recent movement we have now factored in a weaker yen for the rest of the year into our earnings forecast.
It's worth noting that we took a price increase in Japan on April 10 which beyond addressing product cost pressures also included an adjustment for the yen's weakness.
Based on the customary pre-announcement of a price increase in Japan it spurred purchasing in advance of the increase.
However we did not experience the typical unexpected slowdown after that.
So while we believe a portion of the first quarter sales growth certainly reflects the strength of our brand we also attribute the unusual strength to recent reports of a surge in household spending in Japan likely tied to the Japanese government's efforts to stimulate their economy.
The store count remained at 55 in Japan at the end of the quarter.
Our stores in Europe also delivered solid results in the quarter with total sales growing 6% to $93 million due to higher average price and unit growth across most jewelry categories.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales rose 8% and comparable store sales rose 6%.
We were pleased with sales growth across continental Europe which more than offset some lingering softness in the U.K.
Varying degrees of year-over-year performance in local demand is likely tied to economic conditions but tourist sales have become an important factor too which we estimate account for more than 1/4 of our European sales.
We currently operate 34 stores in Europe.
Lastly Tiffany's other sales tripled in the first quarter from a year ago.
The magnitude of the increase largely reflects the change we made last July when we converted 5 existing Tiffany stores in the United Arab Emirates 3 in Dubai and 2 in Abu Dhabi from wholesale distribution to company-operated locations and began to record the retail sales of those stores.
For the U.A.E.
stores overall we've increased inventory levels improved assortments and expanded marketing activities and we've renovated our major store in The Dubai Mall.
We're pleased with initial results and believe there is substantial long-term growth potential for Tiffany in that important region.
We finished the quarter with 275 company-operated stores.
Our plan is to open 16 stores this year and close 1 store each in Japan and Taiwan resulting in a net addition of 14 locations.
And we are renovating a number of existing locations as well.
In the Americas the 6 stores planned range from 3 in the U.S.
including New Jersey's Garden State Plaza and Cleveland's Eaton Center to a store in the West Edmonton Mall in Alberta Canada; our 10th store in Mexico in Villahermosa; and our fifth store in Brazil in Curitiba.
And we are excited to be relocating our Bloor Street store in Toronto to a nearby location this fall.
Seven stores are currently planned to open in the Asia-Pacific region including 4 in China one of which opened in Xi'an in the first quarter and there were 3 additional ones which will take us to 26 stores in China by year-end.
We're also working toward finalizing leases for 3 additional stores in the region.
Rounding out expansion this year are 3 stores that are planned in Europe which will bring us to 37 European stores by year-end.
Looking at merchandising highlights in the quarter.
We continue to see diverging demand among product categories by price point with diamond jewelry clearly outperforming silver jewelry.
As I alluded to earlier we had strong growth in statement jewelry sales in the quarter which was partly tied to the Blue Book event and our customers' response to a collection of extraordinary new jewelry pieces.
At the other extreme we continue to experience softness in silver jewelry sales but new introductions and some greater marketing emphasis are intended to reinvigorate that category.
In other categories we had a healthy increase in engagement jewelry sales and are very pleased with our new Harmony collection.
Fine and fashion jewelry collections were led by the continued strength of our beautiful yellow diamond jewelry; the success of our relatively new Enchant diamond jewelry; Victoria; the perennial favorite Tiffany Keys in diamonds and in gold; and Tiffany's Metro designs.
We're also excited about the response to our growing assortment of colored diamonds.
These trends will illustrate our brand strategy to move toward higher-price-point categories.
In terms of new products we're enthusiastic about our prospects for the recently introduced Great Gatsby Ziegfeld and Jazz collections that span a range of materials and prices.
And we're looking forward to introducing our reinterpretation of our iconic Atlas collection later this year.
That concludes my comments so I'll turn the call over to Pat.
Thanks Mark.
I will also begin my remarks by saying we were pleased with these first quarter results given the overall sales strength and the improving gross margin trends.
That said we are reluctant to extrapolate a continuation of such sales trends into the second quarter and the full year especially in light of the underlying softness in the Americas.
In addition we have factored the impact of the further weakening of the yen into our earnings guidance.
Let's now look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 56.2% in the quarter was below last year's 57.3% but better than we expected as higher-than-expected sales growth gave us added leverage on fixed costs.
We have been experiencing a shift in sales mix toward higher-price-point products consistent with our long-term brand strategy to achieve a lower gross margin and we expect that to continue.
However as we anticipated this year-over-year decline was narrower than we've seen in a while due to diminishing product cost pressure.
And as Mark mentioned we took a round of price increases during the first quarter after exhibiting pricing restraint in 2012 when we did not take any meaningful increases.
We are introducing new jewelry designs in sterling silver this year with more next year with the intent to stimulate that category.
But we continue to anticipate that silver jewelry sales growth in 2013 will lag growth in higher-priced categories.
As a result gross margin in the full year will be slightly lower than last year.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 8% in the quarter.
This included charges tied to cost-reduction efforts of $9 million or $0.05 per diluted share for recent staffing reductions and subleasing of certain office space.
Excluding those costs SG&amp;A expenses increased 6% due to new-store-related costs and substantial marketing costs for our Blue Book event in New York.
Those of you in New York in mid-April may have seen the world's largest Tiffany Blue Box constructed over the skating rink in Rockefeller Center where we hosted a party for a select group of Tiffany's customers media and celebrities.
You can see some photos by visiting the press section of tiffany.com.
We were very pleased with the number of significant sales generated from the event but equally pleased with the overall customer enthusiasm and media attention.
In addition reported SG&amp;A expense growth would have been 2 percentage points higher if not for the favorable translation effect primarily from a weaker yen.
Our full year plan continues to call for SG&amp;A expense growth slightly less than the forecasted sales growth.
Earnings from operations rose by 1% but were up 12% when excluding the expenses tied to cost-reduction efforts.
Looking out to the full year we continue to expect that operating earnings growth will be roughly in line with sales growth.
Beyond 2013 there remains ample opportunity to improve the operating margin by leveraging stronger sales growth against a relatively fixed expense base.
Other expenses net rose to $13 million in the quarter from $11 million last year largely reflecting increased interest expense tied to incremental long-term debt that we took on last July.
We expect other expenses to be about $58 million for the year.
Tiffany's effective tax rate of 34.9% in the quarter met our expectation and compared with 34.5% last year.
We continue to estimate a 35% effective tax rate for the year.
Adding it all up net earnings rose 3% but were 10% above last year when excluding the $9 million of expenses tied to cost-reduction efforts.
We had expected a 15% to 20% earnings decline due to product cost pressure on gross margin and the substantial marketing cost of our Blue Book event.
However the higher-than-expected sales growth that occurred actually in the latter part of the quarter after we provided our guidance on March 22 gave us greater sales leverage on fixed cost and accounted for the delta between our expected earnings decline and the earnings growth that we ultimately achieved.
We believe it is prudent at this time of the year to slightly reduce our sales expectations for the second third and fourth quarters in light of our assumption for the softer sales growth in the Americas and our forecasting an even weaker yen than we had initially planned for Japan sales.
Therefore despite the better-than-expected first quarter results we continue to expect a mid-single digit worldwide sales increase for the year with earnings still in the range of $3.43 to $3.53 per diluted share versus last year's $3.25 per diluted share.
This forecast excludes the $0.05 per diluted share of expenses tied to the cost-reduction efforts that we recorded in the first quarter.
And I should add that we expect net earnings in the second quarter to be about equal to the prior year based on an expected mid-single digit sales increase with stronger earnings growth coming in the second half of the year.
Our return an average assets was 9% on a trailing basis and return on average stockholders' equity was 17%.
Our longer-term financial objectives continue to call for achieving at least a 10% ROA and at least a 15% ROE.
Let's list some balance sheet highlights.
Net inventories of $2.3 billion at April 30 were only 4% above last year.
Finished goods inventory was up 12% due to new stores and new products including the expansion of our statement jewelry assortments.
Combined raw material and work-in-process inventories declined 5%.
We continue to project about a 5% increase in net inventories for the year.
Accounts receivable at April 30 were equal to last year.
Higher receivables tied to the sales growth was offset by a translation effect from the weaker Japanese yen.
Receivables are turning at a rate of 21x per year.
Capital expenditures were $35 million in the first quarter versus $44 million last year and we are continuing to project about $230 million of CapEx for the year versus $220 million last year.
We are planning for positive free cash flow of approximately $300 million in 2013 versus $109 million in 2012.
At April 30 we had $465 million of cash and cash equivalents versus $322 million a year ago.
Short-term and long-term debt totaled $974 million on April 30 up from $834 million a year ago largely due to adding $250 million of long-term debt in last year's second quarter.
Total debt was 37% of stockholders' equity versus 35% a year ago.
We remain committed to returning excess cash to stockholders.
In fact 2 weeks ago our Board of Directors approved a 6% increase in the quarterly cash dividend rate going from $0.32 per share to a new rate of $0.34 per share and representing the 12th increase in the past 11 years.
The new annualized rate of $1.36 would equate to a payout ratio on our current earnings forecast in the high-30s and we will likely maintain a ratio in the 30s going forward.
We did not repurchase any shares in the quarter.
We have $164 million available for future purchases under the currently authorized program which expires in January 2014.
To summarize we are generally pleased with the start of 2013.
We are introducing many exciting new product designs.
We have a good lineup of new stores.
Our marketing programs including a newly designed website later in the year are well suited to enhance customer awareness.
Our infrastructure is effective in supporting our product supply needs and we have the balance sheet to support our expansion.
And most important we are focused on maintaining and enhancing the renowned Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand around the world.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Pat.
That concludes today's conference call.
A replay will be available on our website or by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
or (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering pass code 3267517.
If you have any questions please feel free to call me.
And note on your calendar we expect to report second quarter results on Tuesday August 27 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Co.
Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Patrick McGuiness Tiffany's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for joining us today.
Pat and I are going to review second quarter results on this call and also take the opportunity to update you on the full year outlook.
Before we continue please note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed with a review of Tiffany's performance.
Looking at the big picture these second quarter results were better than our expectations.
Three months ago we had forecast second quarter net earnings would be about equal to last year on mid-single digit sales growth and some lingering margin pressure.
So what changed? The 4% total sales growth in the second quarter was in line with our expectation and I should add that the increase was a stronger 8% on a constant-exchange-rate basis with solid growth in comparable store sales in all regions outside the Americas.
On the upside however we were pleased to see a greater-than-expected improvement in gross margin reflecting both diminishing product cost pressures and the price increases we've taken this year.
And SG&amp;A expenses were well controlled.
So adding it up the better margin performance helped produce 16% net earnings growth in the quarter which now leads us to increase our annual earnings guidance.
And during the quarter we launched some exciting product designs opened 3 new stores and finalized plans for some others which I'll talk about shortly.
Let's now take a look at sales by region.
Sales in the Americas increased 2% in the quarter to $444 million.
Continuing the trend sales growth was entirely due to an increase in average price per jewelry unit sold.
A modest decline in jewelry units reflected softness in the moderate price point fashion jewelry category which more than offset unit growth in higher-priced statement and fine jewelry.
Comp store sales in the Americas were equal to last year and in line with our expectation.
Performance varied geographically with growth in the New York flagship store sale tied to both increased local and tourist demand being offset by a slight decline in comparable brand store sales.
And those brand store results were mixed by market with no discernible pattern except for pronounced softness in Hawaii and Guam reflecting a decline in Japanese tourist sales that we believe is attributed to the weaker yen.
Rounding out the Americas geographical review sales were soft in Canada but we had reasonably good increases in Mexico and Brazil.
Internet and catalog sales in the Americas mirrored store sales performance and we finished the quarter with 116 stores in the Americas which included the opening of our 10th store in Mexico in Villahermosa.
Now let's look beyond the Americas to our other regions where results were quite good.
In Asia-Pacific sales rose 20% to $208 million which was virtually on our expectation.
That 20% increase reflected unit growth across most jewelry categories and an increase in the average price per jewelry unit sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total Asia-Pacific sales also increased 20% with comp store sales up by a solid 13%.
The strongest comp growth was across Greater China.
We finished the quarter operating 67 stores in that region which included opening a new store in the Times Square shopping mall marking our ninth store in Hong Kong.
As we've said repeatedly we believe that expanding Tiffany's store presence and marketing especially in China increases brand awareness and stimulates local sales demand but also is a catalyst for spending by Chinese customers when they travel to other regions.
When we analyze our performance in Japan we believe it's most relevant especially now to examine sales growth in local currency because of the substantial weakening of the yen versus the dollar over the past year.
And just as other foreign brands have done we've increased retail prices in Japan this year to address that weaker yen.
When measured in local currency we're pleased that total sales rose 7% in the quarter and comparable store sales rose 8% on top of the 10% comp increase in last year's second quarter.
This exceeded our expectation.
The total sales growth in yen was due to an increase in the average price per jewelry unit sold.
While the overall unit decline in the quarter reflected declines in moderate-priced fashion jewelry categories it was partly offset by unit growth in engagement and higher-end jewelry.
We believe we are partly benefiting from improved household spending that reflects consumer optimism around the Japanese government's efforts to stimulate their economy and it's possible that some of the decline in Japanese tourists spending in the U.S.
could be showing up in more locally made purchases.
Most importantly we believe the overall sales growth continues to demonstrate the strength of our brand.
So the good news is that sales in Japan are performing quite well but the picture on paper looks different when considering that the yen year-over-year has weakened more than 20% versus the U.S.
dollar.
As a result the 7% sales growth in yen translated into a 14% sales decline to $136 million.
Our internal sales and earnings forecast for the second half of the year incorporates a yen rate roughly in line with recent levels.
We now operate 54 stores in Japan.
During the quarter a Tiffany store in Tokyo located within the Matsuzakaya Ginza department store was closed due to the entire department store's closing for a multiyear renovation but we are well-situated to serve their existing customers in our major Ginza store nearby and in Mitsukoshi Ginza store.
In Europe total sales rose 11% in the quarter due to higher average price and an increase in units sold in most jewelry categories.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis sales increased 10% in total and 7% on a comparable store basis which met our expectation.
Looking across the region like-for-like sales growth actually accelerated in the United Kingdom and exceeded more modest comp growth in most of Continental Europe in the second quarter after seeing the opposite pattern in the first quarter.
Sales to local European customers were up in the quarter.
Sales to tourists have also become a meaningful factor estimated to represent more than 1/4 of our European sales.
But there were no discernible local-versus-tourist sales patterns from country-to-country from which to draw any conclusions.
During the quarter we opened a store in Verona Italy marking our sixth store in that important country and we finished the quarter operating 35 stores in Europe.
Rounding out the geographical review Tiffany's other sales increased 33% in the second quarter.
July marked the first anniversary of the conversion of 5 existing Tiffany stores in the United Arab Emirates 3 in Dubai and 2 in Abu Dhabi from wholesale distribution to company-operated locations and we began to record the retail sales of those stores during July 2012.
We believe there is solid long-term growth potential for Tiffany to enhance brand awareness and expand its customer base in the Middle East.
We finished the quarter with 277 company-operated stores.
Our plan continues to call for opening 16 stores this year with 4 already opened in the first half of the year.
We've also closed 1 store each in Japan and Taiwan resulting in a net addition of 14 locations for the year.
And of course we're also renovating a number of existing stores.
In the Americas the 6 planned stores include 3 in the U.S.: in New Jersey's Garden State Plaza which opened earlier this month; in Cleveland's Eton Center which will open tomorrow; and a store in New Orleans in The Shops at Canal Place.
As well as our 10th store in Mexico in Villahermosa which has opened; a store in the West Edmonton Mall in Alberta Canada; and our fifth store in Brazil in Curitiba.
And we're excited that later this week we will relocate our Bloor Street store in Toronto to a site 1 block away that gives us more selling space with actually less gross square footage and will provide an extraordinary shopping environment and experience for our customers.
The 7 new stores planned in the Asia-Pacific region this year range from 4 in China one of which has opened in Xi'an to the store we opened in Hong Kong's Times Square shopping mall in the second quarter and 2 other locations elsewhere.
Lastly in Europe the 3 new stores this year include the store we opened in the Excelsior in Verona Italy in the second quarter; as well as the store in Stuttgart Germany in the Breuninger department store; and 1 other planned store which will get us to 37 European stores by year-end.
And we're very excited to recently announce our plans to open Tiffany's first company-operated store in Russia next year.
The 4 500 square foot or 420 square meter location will be situated in the renowned GUM department store in Moscow.
Before reviewing merchandising highlights let me take a moment to define some categories for those of you less familiar with us.
When we have been referring to fine jewelry we are primarily talking about platinum and gold jewelry with the diamonds and/or other gemstones.
Statement refers to jewelry pieces typically retailing for more than $50 000.
And fashion jewelry is predominantly about non-gemstone jewelry and silver gold and the RUBEDO metal although small gemstones might be used as accents in some pieces.
Now having provided those definitions merchandising highlights in the quarter continued to reflect sales growth in fine and statement jewelry that outperformed the modest growth in fashion jewelry sales.
Our success in higher-price-point jewelry does revolve around diamonds including strong response to our growing assortment of colored diamonds.
This range is from the statement jewelry category that had continued sell-through from April's Blue Book event and sales from our very successful Gatsby collection to solitaire diamond engagement rings including the distinctive new Harmony collection to the extraordinary Yellow Diamond jewelry collection the Enchant diamond jewelry collection our select collections with diamonds and colored stones Tiffany Keys in diamonds and in gold and Tiffany's Metro collection.
But as we've been saying recently we're also focused on improving the fashion jewelry category but in a luxury-brand-appropriate way.
New designs such as the Ziegfeld collection in silver freshwater pearls and onyx that was introduced in the second quarter to strong customer response and the reinterpretation of our iconic Atlas collection that makes its official debut on September 10 along with others in the product development pipeline are intended to generate improving fashion jewelry sales trends over the next year.
That wraps up my comments so I'll now turn the call over to Pat.
Thanks Mark.
We were pleased with Tiffany's second quarter results in a number of ways and certainly pleased with our earnings growth.
We were very satisfied with sales results in all regions except the Americas where sales remained quite soft.
In addition we saw a favorable gross margin movement and we were pleased with our management of expenses.
And as such this second quarter performance leads us to raise our full year outlook.
Now let's look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin was 57.5% in the second quarter compared with 56.3% last year and better than our previous guidance.
We are now benefiting from a moderation in product cost tied to product flow-through and also benefiting from a needed price increase that we took during the first quarter this year after not taking any meaningful price increases in 2012.
However these gross margin benefits are still being partly offset by a continuing shift in sales mix toward higher-price-point lower-gross-margin products.
And we took an additional price increase in Japan in the second quarter to account for some further weakening of the yen versus the dollar.
We are now forecasting gross margin for the full year to be at least equal to last year.
Although we are focused on improving fashion jewelry sales with new product introductions we continue to forecast 2013 fashion jewelry sales growth to lag growth in higher-priced categories.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose by only 3% in the second quarter largely due to store-related costs and marketing spending.
The effect of foreign currency translation primarily from a weaker yen reduced SG&amp;A expense growth by about 3 percentage points.
For the year we continue to forecast SG&amp;A expense growth slightly less than sales growth.
Earnings from operations increased 14% in the quarter and we are forecasting it to increase more than sales growth for the full year.
There remains ample opportunity to improve the operating margin over the longer term by achieving stronger sales growth and leveraging it against a relatively fixed expense base.
Other expenses net of $15 million in the quarter were up slightly from last year and we continue to forecast other expenses at about $58 million for the full year.
The effective tax rate was 34.2% in the second quarter and we continue to estimate a 35% rate for the full year.
Adding it all together net earnings increased 16% in the second quarter and diluted EPS rose 15% which was considerably better than our previous forecasted earnings equal to last year.
Three months ago we had reduced our sales growth expectation for the full year due to a disappointing performance in the Americas as well as to factor in a weaker yen.
At this point we are maintaining a cautious sales outlook for the Americas until we see solid evidence of an upturn.
Our assumptions call for full year worldwide sales to grow by a mid-single digit percentage in dollars and by a high-single digit in local currency.
With local currency comp growth ranging from high-single digits in Asia-Pacific and Japan to low-single digits in the Americas.
Given these second quarter results we are increasing our earnings forecast to a range of $3.50 to $3.60 per diluted share from the previous forecast of $3.43 to $3.53 per diluted share and last year's $3.25 per diluted share.
This earnings forecast excludes $0.05 per diluted share of expenses tied to cost-reduction efforts that we recorded in the first quarter.
We are also well-positioned with our balance sheet.
At July 31 we had $490 million of cash and cash equivalents versus $366 million a year ago.
Short-term and long-term debt totaled $964 million at July 31 up from $940 million a year ago.
Total debt was 35% of stockholders' equity versus 39% a year ago.
Net inventories of $2.3 billion which represents about half of total assets have increased just 4% from a year ago with finished goods inventory up 8% and combined raw material and work-in-process inventories down 1%.
Net inventories would have increased 7% when excluding the translation effect of a stronger dollar primarily against the weaker yen.
We continue to project about a 5% increase in net inventories for the year or slightly less than projected sales growth.
Accounts receivables were 6% lower than last year largely due to the translation effects from the substantially weaker Japanese yen.
Receivables are turning at more than 20x per year.
Capital expenditures were $87 million in the first half of the year versus $97 million in last year's first half and we are continuing to project $230 million of CapEx for the year versus $220 million last year.
All of this keeps us on track to achieve positive free cash flow of about $300 million in 2013 versus $109 million in 2012.
Tying it together our return on average assets was 10% on a trailing basis and return on average stockholders' equity was 17%.
Our long-term financial objectives continue to call for achieving at least a 10% ROA and a 15% ROE.
So I am pleased to say that it was a good quarter for Tiffany.
Looking forward we remain focused on a range of growth opportunities including new product introductions and further broadening brand awareness through marketing communications.
On a related marketing note Tiffany is one of the most recognized and awarded leaders in the luxury digital space.
Our passion and creativity in this area is seen within tiffany.com as well as in our innovative social media programs online advertising and mobile applications.
Everywhere in the world Tiffany is maximizing connectivity with our customers through all digital platforms.
And to become even better we will relaunch our website later this year with enhanced content that will be even richer and more robust in an integrated presentation.
We will of course also be focused on expanding our global distribution and on growing comparable store sales and we have a strong management team in place to achieve that.
In fact during the second quarter we bolstered our global organization when we brought in experienced leaders to head 2 of our regions.
For Northern America Anthony Ledru comes to us with many years of global retail jewelry experience; and in Europe Florence Rollet comes to us with a strong luxury background where she had retail management responsibility across Europe.
Anthony and Florence along with our other regional leaders report to Frédéric Cumenal our Executive Vice President who joined Tiffany 2 years ago.
That concludes my comments.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Pat.
That wraps up today's conference call which we hope all of you found to be informative.
You may also listen to a replay on our website or by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
or (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering pass code 5233127.
Please feel free to call me if you have any questions.
And also note on your calendars that we expect to report third quarter results on Tuesday November 26 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Co.
Third Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Jim Fernandez Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Greetings from our corporate offices here in New York and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Jim and I will review results on this call and update you on our current full year outlook.
Please first note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed with a review of Tiffany's performance.
We are pleased to report a very solid quarter with a healthy rate of worldwide sales growth and a faster rate of earnings growth.
Net sales rose 7% in dollars and 11% on a constant-exchange-rate basis with the difference primarily reflecting the substantial weakening of the yen over the past year.
And on a local currency basis sales rose in all regions.
Operating earnings rose 31% as we benefited from a higher gross margin and SG&amp;A expense leverage.
Our effective tax rate was lower than last year.
As a result net earnings rose 50%.
In other news we introduced important additions to our Atlas jewelry collection.
We launched our redesigned website.
We announced the hiring of Tiffany's new Design Director and we opened 6 new stores.
Let's look at sales performance by region.
In the Americas sales rose 4% in the third quarter which was largely due to a higher average price per jewelry unit sold.
A small increase in jewelry units sold included greater growth in fine jewelry but we were pleased to see some growth in fashion jewelry too.
Comparable store sales rose 1%.
The New York flagship store posted a solid increase primarily resulting from higher sales to foreign tourists from China and Europe but also with modest growth in domestic spending.
However brand store sales were mixed by market.
In the U.S.
there was softness along much of the East Coast strength along the West Coast and there were substantial sales declines in Hawaii and Guam due to lower Japanese tourist sales likely tied to the weaker yen.
Elsewhere in the region results were mixed in Canada Mexico and Brazil.
We opened 4 stores in the Americas during the quarter: in the Garden State Plaza mall in New Jersey; in Cleveland Ohio's Eton Center; in the West Edmonton Mall in Alberta Canada; and in Curitiba Brazil finishing the quarter with 120 stores in the Americas.
We also relocated our Bloor Street store in Toronto to a nearby site that is providing our customers with an extraordinary shopping environment and experience.
And we're delighted to be entering New Orleans when we open a store tomorrow at The Shops at Canal Place near the city's historic French Quarter.
The Asia-Pacific region posted a strong 27% sales increase in the quarter with broad-based double-digit comp store sales increases in Greater China and in most other markets in the region.
The increase was generated by roughly equal growth in the average price per jewelry unit sold and in the higher jewelry unit sold in most categories.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total Asia-Pacific sales rose 29% with comp store sales growing 22% after a 4% comp decline last year.
We opened a store in Jinan China during the quarter marking Tiffany's 24th store in China.
At quarter end we operated 68 stores in the Asia-Pacific region.
In the fourth quarter 2 more stores are planned to open in China and we are adding 2 stores in Taiwan 1 of which opened 2 weeks ago in the Shinkong Mitsukoshi Ximen store in Tainan.
We operate 54 stores in Japan and our business there performed well in the quarter.
In local currency total sales increased 9% and comparable store sales rose 5% which is on top of a 5% increase in last year's third quarter and was in line with our expectations.
That 9% total sales increase was due to increases in the average price per jewelry unit sold as well as unit growth in most jewelry categories.
However the yen has weakened more than 20% versus the U.S.
dollar in the past year.
So the 9% sales growth in the yen translated into a 13% sales decline in dollars.
Beyond our growing brand strength and product desirability we believe our sales in Japan might also be benefiting to some degree from the decline in Japanese tourist spending in the U.S.
which might be boosting local demand in Japan.
Our results in Europe were mixed in the quarter.
Total sales rose 7% due to increases in both average price per jewelry unit sold and in the number of jewelry units sold.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales rose 4% on a 2% comparable store sales increase that was below our expectation and was on top of an 8% comp increase in last year's third quarter.
Within the region for the second consecutive quarter sales growth was led by the U.K.
which more than offset softness in Continental Europe.
The sales growth reflected higher local customer and foreign tourist demand although with no discernible pattern.
We opened a store in Stuttgart in the Breuninger department store in the third quarter marking our seventh store in Germany and giving us 36 company-operated stores in Europe at the end of the quarter.
We also completed a major renovation of our Frankfurt store during the quarter and recently relocated our Florence store to a more spacious nearby site on Via Tornabuoni.
One more store is planned to open in Italy before year-end.
Lastly Tiffany's other sales increased 14% in the third quarter largely due to an increase in wholesale sales of diamonds that we acquire and then subsequently sell to meet our quality requirements.
Comparable store sales rose 1% representing the first quarter of comparability for our 5 stores in the United Arab Emirates 3 in Dubai and 2 in Abu Dhabi that were converted from wholesale distribution to company-operated locations in the middle of last year.
We're excited about the sales growth potential for Tiffany in the Middle East to enhance brand awareness and expansion of our store and customer base.
Complementing our store base is a strong global web presence which now includes e-commerce in 13 countries and informational sites in a number of additional countries.
And I should add that these websites are featured in 9 languages.
Worldwide Internet sales growth which is included in each region in the third quarter was in line with retail sales growth in our stores.
As I mentioned in the overview we launched our newly redesigned website in October.
The new site is without doubt more engaging with greater storytelling and video content.
It's easier to navigate.
And for the first time we are showcasing our Blue Book Collection of million-dollar jewelry.
The new site also offers suggestions of related product ideas for customers and an interesting and fun Drop a Hint feature for the holidays.
Early indications show that visitors are spending considerably more time on the new site and we encourage you to visit the site and take a look for yourself.
And as a reflection of our effective use of digital media we were pleased to see that Tiffany for the third consecutive year was recently ranked #1 by L2 a think tank for digital innovation in their Digital IQ Index assessing the digital competence of 80 global watch and jewelry brands.
Now let's look at a few merchandising highlights for the third quarter.
Overall we continued to see the strongest sales growth in statement fine and solitaire jewelry meaning jewelry with gemstones at mid to higher price points.
But we're also pleased to see some initial signs of improvement in the fashion jewelry category.
Strong statement jewelry sales in the quarter reflected the success of an exclusive event in New York that we held in October for some of our Tiffany registered customers as well as statement sales in some other markets.
Notable highlights in fine jewelry in the third quarter were strong sales in the Enchant collection with an expansion of the collection coming next year; our extraordinary Yellow Diamond collection; new jewelry designs with pink diamond accents and our Victoria collection.
And we are pleased with sales of our Cobblestone and Select collections which have been expanded with a focus on diamonds and colored gemstones.
Straddling both the fine and fashion jewelry categories is our Keys collection which is enjoying a strong sales resurgence.
After being introduced 4 years ago this popular collection is showing continued strength in gold and platinum styles accented with diamonds and is now also benefiting from newer designs in platinum accented with colored diamonds.
In fashion jewelry the big story right now is the success of our reinterpreted and recently launched Atlas collection in various metals and styles but with noteworthy popularity in gold pieces.
I should add that our marketing communications in support of the Atlas collection will be ongoing.
The Ziegfeld collection in silver pearls and onyx continues to post strong results 5 months after the premiere of The Great Gatsby movie.
And Tiffany's Metro collection continues to be a solid performer.
Engagement jewelry sales in the quarter were higher in most regions.
While that very meaningful category is certainly led by our 6-pronged Tiffany setting we've also successfully expanded the range of designs over the years.
The latest innovation is our Harmony engagement ring collection which we launched exclusively in Japan last year and rolled it out globally earlier this year and just recently expanded the assortment with the addition of Harmony band rings.
So we were pleased with either solid performance or initial signs of some improvement across most of our jewelry categories.
There are a lot of new products in the development stages under the leadership of our new Design Director Francesca Amfitheatrof who we were delighted to welcome to Tiffany in September.
She's already fully immersed in our design process with her team especially focused on reinvigorating the fashion jewelry category.
Regarding our watch business we are proceeding with plans to design produce market and distribute our own Tiffany &amp; Co.
brand watches.
However the previously disclosed claims and counterclaims between Swatch and Tiffany are still pending in a confidential arbitration in the Netherlands and the panel will issue its decision at an undetermined future date.
I'm now very pleased to turn the call over to Jim.
Okay thanks Mark and good morning everyone.
Tiffany's third quarter results continued the improvement we've seen in the past few quarters and we're very pleased with our progress.
Earnings benefited from healthy sales growth gross margin improvement and sales leverage on well-managed cost.
Gross margin of 57% in the third quarter was 2.6 points above last year and above our expectation.
This contrasted with a 3.5-point decline in last year's third quarter when we were experiencing significant pressure from higher product costs.
As we have previously noted we began to feel diminishing product cost pressures near the end of 2012 which turned into a tailwind in the second quarter of 2013.
I'm sure you are all aware of the lag we experience in realizing changes in gross margins due to our long lead times and relatively modest inventory turnover.
And we are now benefiting from those reduced product costs which should continue at least through year-end.
We are also benefiting from price increases we took earlier in the year to catch up with costs after avoiding any meaningful price increases in 2012.
Partly offsetting the product cost benefit in the quarter was a continuing shift in sales mix toward higher price point lower gross margin products including strong statement jewelry sales.
However we are now seeing some improvement in fashion jewelry sales growth although it is not growing as fast as the total company.
Sales mix is an important component of gross margin and always more difficult to forecast and we believe that it could have some mitigating effects on the extent of gross margin expansion in the fourth quarter as well.
But all in all we are now forecasting that gross margin for the full year will be higher than last year's 57%.
Moving down the income statement selling general and administrative expenses increased 5% in the third quarter largely due to higher labor and store-related costs.
Excluding the effects of foreign currency translation primarily from the weaker yen SG&amp;A expense rose 8%.
So measuring it either on a GAAP or a constant-exchange-rate basis we improved the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to sales by leveraging fixed costs and we continue to forecast an improved SG&amp;A expense ratio for the full year.
As a result of the increase in gross margin and the improved SG&amp;A expense ratio earnings from operations rose 31% in the quarter on a 7% sales increase.
And we are expecting operating margin improvement for the full year.
Interest and other expenses net were $14 million in the third quarter versus $15 million last year and we continue to forecast it at about $58 million for the full year.
Our effective tax rate of 32.3% in the third quarter was down from 38.4% in last year's third quarter.
This year's rate benefited from the onetime favorable impact of tax regulations related to the tax basis of fixed assets as well as differences in the geographical mix of earnings.
Last year's higher rate resulted from our truing-up of the prior year's tax position upon filing our tax returns.
We estimate a full year effective tax rate in the range of 34% to 35%.
So with virtually everything moving in a favorable direction we were able to generate a 31% increase in operating earnings and a 50% increase in net earnings in the third quarter and diluted EPS rose 49%.
This was better than the expectation included in our last published guidance which leads us to increase our full year forecast.
Our guidance for the full year now calls for earnings per diluted share of $3.65 to $3.75 which does not include a $0.05 charge we recorded earlier in the year and which compares with last year's $3.25 per share.
We are basing that on full year assumptions calling for mid-single-digit worldwide sales growth in dollars or high single-digit growth in local currency with comp store sales growth in local currencies ranging from low-double digits in Asia-Pacific in Japan to mid-single digits in Europe and low-single digits in the Americas.
Backing into a fourth quarter sales forecast this implies mid-single digit sales growth in dollars or high-single-digit sales growth in local currency with single-digit comp increases in all regions.
And our assumption of a full year improvement in the operating margin coming from a favorable gross margin and expense ratio implies a modest improvement in the operating margin in the fourth quarter.
We continue to pursue an active pace of organic expansion and we have a healthy balance sheet to support it.
Our return on average assets was 10% on a trailing basis and return on average stockholders' equity was 18%.
Our long-term financial objectives continue to call for achieving at least 10% ROA and 15% ROE.
I'm pleased to report that inventories are at very appropriate levels.
Net inventories of $2.4 billion at October 31 was 6% higher than a year ago comprised of a 5% increase in finished goods and a 7% increase in combined raw material and work-in-process inventories.
Excluding the effect of currency translation primarily the stronger dollar versus the weaker yen net inventories would've increased 9%.
For the full year we are forecasting a 5% inventory increase in dollars.
Whether it's measured in dollars or local currency inventory growth this year has been slightly less than sales growth which is consistent with our long-term objective.
Accounts receivable on October 31 were 3% above last year reflecting worldwide sales growth and would've increased 10% when excluding the effect of foreign currency translation.
Receivables are turning at more than 20x per year.
Capital expenditures were $149 million year-to-date versus $157 million in last year's year-to-date.
And we are projecting about $225 million of CapEx for the year versus $220 million last year.
In terms of liquidity we had $521 million of cash and cash equivalents at October 31 versus $345 million a year ago.
Total short-term and long-term debt increased $30 million from a year ago but as a percentage of stockholders' equity declined to 36% from 40% a year ago.
So we have a solid balance sheet and continue to forecast achieving positive free cash flow of around $300 million in 2013 versus the $109 million in 2012.
Behind the scenes our manufacturing facilities diamond sourcing organization and distribution centers are functioning effectively to maintain high in-store product availability and to efficiently ship products to customers.
In summary the third quarter was another good one for Tiffany and we believe we are well positioned for the holiday season.
We have pursued an active pace of store expansion this year which includes adding a net of 14 stores in 2013.
We've introduced several exciting and well-received new jewelry collections and we've enhanced our marketing communications.
Despite the obvious economic and consumer uncertainties in some regions our management team sees great opportunities ahead of us and we're enthusiastic about our ability to fully realize Tiffany's longer-term growth potential.
That wraps up my comments.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Jim.
We hope all of you found today's conference call to be informative.
You may also listen to a replay on our website or by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
or (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 3631782.
Please feel free to call me if you have any questions.
And also note on your calendars that we plan to report our November December holiday sales results on Friday January 10 through a news release but without a conference call.
Thanks for listening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Jim Fernandez Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good day everyone.
Jim and I welcome you to our conference call to review highlights of Tiffany's performance in the fourth quarter and full year 2013 as well as to provide key financial expectations for 2014.
Please first note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed.
As an overview worldwide net sales rose 5% in the fourth quarter or 9% on a constant exchange rate basis which was a bit better than the respective 4% and 8% increases we had reported for the holiday period.
Gross margin rose 1.4 points in the quarter.
As previously disclosed net earnings were impacted by the adverse arbitration rule that you are all familiar with resulting in a net loss of $104 million in the quarter.
However excluding net charge net earnings rose 6% in the quarter.
Finally we are pleased that the 6% increase in full year net sales met the expectations that we set a year ago while net earnings growth excluding charges of 15% in the year surpassed our initial expectation.
Let's now look at sales performance where we posted growth in all regions on a constant exchange rate basis.
First in terms of geographical mix by region the Americans represented 48% of worldwide net sales in 2013 which was unchanged from 2012.
Asia-Pacific was 23% of sales up from 21% in 2012.
Japan was 14% of sales versus 17% in 2012 but the decline was currency-related and Europe was 12% of sales up from 11% in 2012.
Starting with the Americans the 6% sales increase in the fourth quarter was consistent with holiday results and was driven by an increase in the average price per jewelry units sold.
A decline in jewelry unit volume was limited to the fashion jewelry category which occurred mostly at price points under $500.
For the full-year our sales in the Americas rose 5% due to price and volume dynamics that were similar to the quarter.
We concluded the year on a stronger than expected note in the Americans.
We attribute the improvement to at least some extent to selling initiatives taken by our regional management that focused first on our 25 largest stores to better engage the customers to our sales professionals and through enhanced visual merchandising.
That focus will eventually be extended to all stores.
On a constant exchange rate basis comparable-store sales rose 7% in the fourth quarter due to geographically broad based sales growth across most markets and comps were up 3% for the year with sales growth in the New York flagship store outpacing modest growth in branch stores.
We are not ready to call the 7% comp increase in the quarter the beginning of a trend but are encouraged nonetheless.
You may be interested to know that our three largest branch stores by sales volume in the region in 2013 were in South Coast Plaza in Costa Mesa California followed by our Union Square store in San Francisco and our store on Michigan Avenue in Chicago.
To reiterate what we have said previously we can no longer quantify total foreign tourists sales in the Americas region because of legal restrictions on data collection in some U.S.
states.
However in the New York flagship store which in 2013 represented 8% of worldwide sales were 16% of the Americas region sales to foreign tourists increased and accounted for approximately 45% of that store's sales in 2013.
The increased spending came from Chinese visitors as well as higher spending by European visitors while a decline in Japanese tourist spending in New York and other markets too very likely reflected the yen's weakness.
We believe that foreign tourist spending will continue to be a meaningful portion of sales in the Americans as we generate greater brand awareness in Asia Europe and elsewhere that also fosters greater spending when customers travel.
Elsewhere in the Americans we achieved modest comparable store sales growth in constant currencies in Canada Mexico and Brazil in both the fourth quarter and year.
We opened six stores in the Americas in 2013 in the Garden State Plaza Mall New Jersey in Cleveland Ohio Eton Center in New Orleans in the West Edmonton Mall in Alberta Canada in Curitiba Brazil and in Villahermosa Mexico.
Store relocations renovations and enhanced visual merchandising complement our worldwide expansion strategy and is one example in 2013 we relocated on Bloor Street store in Toronto to offer the utmost shopping environment to our customers.
We finished the year with 121 company-operated stores in the Americas including 94 the U.S.
12 in Canada 10 in Mexico and 5 in Brazil.
Turning to the Asia-Pacific region sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter due to increased jewelry unit volume and rose 17% for the full-year due to increases in jewelry unit volume and price per jewelry unit sold.
While the 8% sales increase in the quarter was lower than we had initially expected it was nonetheless better than the 5% increase we had reported for the holiday period indicating substantial improvements in January that reflected strong growth throughout the region and perhaps reflecting the celebration of the earlier Chinese New Year.
Total Asia-Pacific sales on a constant exchange rate basis increased 11% in the quarter and 18% in the year reflecting comp store sales growth of 4% in the quarter with growth in most countries and 11% in the year with growth in all countries and of course the opening of a number of new stores.
In fact we opened seven stores in the region in 2013 including four stores in China one in Hong Kong and two in Taiwan while closing one older store in Taiwan.
We finished the year with 72 stores in the Asia-Pacific region.
45 of those stores are located in Greater China and represented more than half of the region sales in 2013.
Our highest volume store in the region is on Canton Road in Hong Kong.
Continuing to expand brand awareness of Tiffany in China through our store base and marketing activities is critical to generating local sales growth but also to influencing Chinese tourists when they travel to our other markets.
When sales are measured in yen our business in Japan performed well throughout the fourth quarter and year.
In local currency total sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter and 11% in the full year due to a higher average price per jewelry units sold in both periods with some declines jewelry units sold.
Comp store sales in yen rose 8% and 10% in those periods.
This was better than we had expected at the start of 2013 however the yen weekend about 20% against the U.S.
dollar in 2013 which had a significant negative translation effect on our sales resulting in reported total sales declining 12% in the fourth quarter and 9% in the full-year with roughly similar comp store sales declines.
While the weaker yen likely had a negative effect on our sales in New York Hawaii and Guam and some other U.S.
markets it's very possible some of that demand shifted toward local consumption in Japan.
For translation purposes we are planning the yen at €105 to the $1 for 2014.
During 2013 the closing of the Matsuzakaya department store in Tokyo for multi-year renovation required the closing of the Tiffany store that they posted there but we are guessing that much of that business probably shifted to our nearby Ginza store.
We finished the year with 54 locations in Japan and our Ginza store produces the highest volume in Japan and accounts for more than 10% of total sales in Japan.
Tiffany stores in Europe faced some obvious macroeconomic challenges in 2013 but our expanded brand awareness and the opportunities provided by our under penetration in that region helped us to achieve generally healthy performance.
Total sales increased 10% in the fourth quarter consistent with the holiday period and rose 9% in the year.
The sales growth in both periods was fueled by increases in jewelry unit volume and in the average price per jewelry units sold.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 7% in both the quarter and year while comp store sales increased 2% in the fourth quarter and 4% in the year.
Geographical trends in Europe were mixed over the course of the year.
Sales in the U.K.
represented a little more than 40% of European sales in 2013 and our highest volume store in Europe is on Old Bond Street.
Over the course of the year relative sales performance between the U.K.
and continental Europe fluctuated but there was no meaningful difference in performance for the full year.
Foreign tourist spending has become a meaningful part of our business in Europe which we estimate represented more than a quarter of total sales.
Our stores in France had the highest percentage of those sales to foreign tourists with Chinese shoppers accounting for significant part of it.
We opened three stores in Europe in 2013 one in Stuttgart Germany and two in Italy in Rome and Verona and finished the year with 37 locations in Europe.
We also renovated our Frankfurt store and relocated our Florence store.
Lastly Tiffany's other sales rose 47% in the fourth quarter and 53% in the year.
We are very pleased with comparable store sales growth of 23% in the quarter and 14% in the year representing the five stores in the United Arab Emirates three in Dubai and two in Abu Dhabi that were converted from wholesale distribution to company-operated locations in July 2012.
The remainder of the increase in other sales in both periods was primarily due to wholesale sales of diamond that we acquired through our rough sourcing program and subsequently sell because they don't meet our requirements.
For the full-year across all regions we opened 16 company-operated stores and closed two existing ones representing a 5% increase in the number of locations and a 3% increase in gross square footage.
In terms of sales productivity Tiffany's company-operated stores generated $3 100 sales per gross square foot in 2013 versus $3 000 in 2012.
Productivity range from Asia-Pacific at $4 800 per foot up from $4 500 in 2012 to $3 800 per foot in Japan versus $4 200 in 2012 to Europe with $3 300 a foot consistent with 2012 and the Americas at $2 400 versus $2 300 a foot in 2012.
It's worth noting that the decline in Japan's productivity in dollars was entirely due to the negative translation effect from the weaker yen while retail store productivity in Japan measured in yen rose 12%.
Our store base is complemented by our multilingual web presence that spans across 13 countries with e-commerce site as well as informational sites in six additional countries.
Worldwide e-commerce sales which are included in each region represented 6% of worldwide sales in 2013 or 8% of the total sales in the countries in which we operate e-commerce sites.
Those percentages were unchanged from the prior year.
We launched our redesigned site last October and visitors appear to be more engaged with its enhanced content as they are spending more time on the new site.
Now looking at some merchandising highlights sales growth in the fourth quarter occurred across most product categories.
The strongest sales growth continued to be in the statement fine and solitaire jewelry category which incorporates jewelry with gemstones at the mid-to-higher price points and we were encouraged with improvement in the fashion jewelry category with the sales strength coming from gold jewelry implying continued softness in silver especially at price points under $500.
Statement jewelry continued to post strong growth in 2013 as more customers especially in Asia-Pacific and the Americans discovered Tiffany's extraordinary offerings.
As we mentioned previously we invested considerably in recent years to expand our statement jewelry assortment and we are delighted with the performance of this ultra high-end category.
Our success in fine jewelry reflects an extraordinary assortment of diamond jewelry with increasing demand for colored diamonds and other gemstone.
In particular Tiffany's yellow diamond collection continued to sparkle with great success in 2013.
Additional popular collections worth noting included the Enchant collection new jewelry designs with pink diamond accents introduced in 2013 and our beautiful Victoria Collection.
Also our Cobblestone and Soleste collections were well received with their expanded designs focused on diamonds and colored gemstones.
Engagement jewelry category performed well in most regions in 2013.
While that category is anchored by our six-pronged Tiffany setting and complemented by additional settings we have introduced over the years.
The latest innovation has been the successful Harmony engagement ring collection.
We launched Harmony in Japan in 2012 expanded distribution globally in 2013 and then most recently broadened this assortment with Harmony band rings.
I said the word encouraged with improvement in the fashion jewelry category the best example is ATLAS.
We could not be more pleased with the success of that newly reinterpreted collection in various metals and styles which debuted last fall and will be expanded this spring.
We targeted much of our advertising on ATLAS during the holiday season and that focused approach and powerful message drove strong results.
It's also worth mentioning Tiffany's stepping back into the Jazz age earlier in the year with the launch of our Ziegfeld and Gatsby collections tied to the premier of The Great Gatsby movie.
Paloma Picasso's new Olive Leaf collection enjoyed a very successful first year and let's not forget the importance of some our Tiffany's iconic collection such as Metro which continues to be a solid performer.
Our Keys collection introduced five years ago enjoyed a strong sales resurgence in 2013.
This popular collection in gold and platinum which straddles fine and fashion jewelry benefited from newer designs in platinum accented with colored diamonds.
We finish the year feeling quite good about trends in most jewelry categories and are equally excited about new designs that will debut in 2014.
Our design team is focused on an array of new designs including the expanded ATLAS collection this spring and with a special focus on invigorating fashion jewelry.
Please stay tuned for an exciting new collection that will debut this fall as well as of course other design introductions across all categories.
I will now turn the call over to Jim to review the rest of the earnings statement the balance sheet and our expectations for 2014.
Thanks Mark.
Notwithstanding some obvious economic and consumer uncertainties as well as an unfavorable arbitration ruling 2013 was indeed an excellent year for Tiffany's sales and earnings excluding the arbitration related charge reaching record levels.
Tiffany's achievements span the areas of product development store expansion marketing the supply chain and strengthening the management team with new regional heads of Northern America and Europe and bringing in a new design director.
Looking at the rest of the earning statement gross margin increased 1.4 points to 60.5% in the fourth quarter and rose 1.1 points to 58.1% in the year.
In both periods we benefited from price increases we took earlier in the year to catch up with costs after avoiding any meaningful price increases in 2012.
In addition we benefited from diminishing pressure and our actual reductions in product costs.
Partly offsetting those benefits in the full year was a shift in sales mix toward higher-priced lower gross margin in fine and statement jewelry however I will add that those higher price points sales provide substantial incremental gross profit that can be leveraged against fixed costs and ultimately improve our operating margin.
In addition recent improvement in fashion jewelry sales helped in the fourth quarter and should eventually provide some further upside to gross margin.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 7% in the fourth quarter reflecting higher fixed and variable labor costs such as sales commission and incentive compensation and higher store-related costs.
SG&amp;A expenses rose 6% in the year for similar reason.
Excluding the effects of foreign currency translation primarily from the weaker yen SG&amp;A expense growth would have been 3% greater in both the quarter and the year.
Please also note that full year SG&amp;A expense includes $9.4 million pre-tax charge or $0.04 per diluted share recorded in first quarter related to staffing reduction and sub-leasing of certain office space.
As previously disclosed we recorded the charge in the fourth quarter related to the adverse ruling in The Swatch arbitration.
The total pre-tax charge was $473 million and the after-tax amount was $293 million or $2.27 per diluted share.
We should note that $488 million of the pre-tax charge was recorded in earnings from operations while a $7 million foreign currency translation gain was recorded in interest and other expenses net.
In terms of earnings from operations we think it is more relevant to look at the numbers on a non-GAAP basis that exclude the arbitration and other specific charges.
Doing so operating earnings increased 8% in the fourth quarter on the 5% sales growth and rose 14% in the year on the 6% sales growth giving us an adjusted operating margin of 19.7% for the year versus 18.4% last year.
Interest and other expenses net were $8 million and $49 million in the respective fourth quarter and year excluding the $7 million transaction gain I just mentioned interest and other expenses net would have been $16 million in the quarter and $57 million in the year roughly in line with what we had previously projected.
Tiffany had an income tax benefit in the fourth quarter due to arbitration award charge while the full year effective income tax rate was 28.8%.
Excluding the impact of the arbitration award and other specific charges the effective tax rate was 36.1% in the fourth quarter versus 35% last year.
The full year rate was 34.8% versus 35.3% in 2012.
The net $473 million pre-tax arbitration award charge led to a net loss of $104 million in the fourth quarter.
Full year net earnings also included some specific charges that have been recorded in the first quarter however excluding those charges Tiffany earned $190 million in the quarter and $481 million in the year representing EPS growth of 5% and 15% respectively and putting us near the high end of our most recently disclosed expectations.
Our technically subpar 4% return on average assets and 7% return on average stockholders' equity in 2013 were due to the changes we recorded and under more normal circumstances would have been more in line with recent years and with our financial objectives.
I'm pleased to state that even after the payment of the arbitration award we finished the year with a balance sheet that provides with solid base to pursue our ongoing business plans and future expansions.
Inventories of $2.3 billion at year end were up 4% from the year ago.
In comparison net inventories had increased 8% in 2012 so we met our objective for a deceleration in the rate of inventory growth.
The 4% increase in 2013 included a 3% increase in finished goods that support new stores and expanded offerings and a 5% increase in combined raw material and work in process inventories.
Excluding foreign currency translation net inventories would have increased 6% in the year.
We are pleased that whether in dollars or local currency inventory growth was less than sales growth in 2013 which is consistent with our long-term objectives.
We are well positioned with high levels of inventory availability in our stores and our supply chain in diamond sourcing and internal manufacturing is operating efficiently to meet our growing product needs.
Accounts receivables of $189 million at year end were up 9% in the year reflecting worldwide sales growth.
The increase would have been 14% excluding foreign currency translation.
Receivables turned at a rate of 22 times a year.
Capital expenditures came in at $221 million for the year versus $220 million last year and a bit less than our forecast due to timing differences and they represented 5% of sales.
More than half of the spending went towards store openings renovations and relocations.
Investments in information technology is another major area and spending will increase this year and next as we upgrade and introduce new systems for global customer relationship management and for more advanced order and inventory management all of which should yield longer-term sales and working capital benefits.
Adding it all up Tiffany had free cash flow which we define as cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures compared with last year's $109 million in ['12].
However in the fourth quarter we made a payment to Swatch of $473 million for the adverse arbitration ruling.
We expect to generate at least $400 million of free cash flow in 2014.
As a result of strong earnings growth and favorable working capital management offset by the one-time arbitration payment we finished the year with $367 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments versus $506 million a year ago.
Total short-term and long-term debt of $1 billion at year end was about $40 million above the $959 million a year ago.
Total debt as a percentage of stockholders' equity was 37% at year end unchanged from the year ago.
In addition we announced in a separate news release this morning that we have been authorized to resume share repurchases in 2014.
Tiffany's board approved a new program and authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of stock over the next three years.
Based on our long-term outlook for earnings and cash flow we think that this is an appropriate way to return a portion of the excess capital to stockholders while also mitigating dilution on earnings per share in stock based compensation.
Let's now turn to our outlook for 2014 which will be a year of exciting expansion and investing.
My references to comparisons to 2013 will exclude the effect of the arbitration award in 2013's fourth quarter as well as other specific charges recorded in 2013's first quarter.
We have a lot going on with the addition of new jewelry collections the opening of some major new stores incremental spending on IT systems and compelling marketing.
In total we are projecting net earnings to increase 9% to 11% to a range of $4.05 to $4.15 per diluted share.
This compares with non-GAAP $3.73 per diluted share that Tiffany earned in 2013.
Looking at the components of the earnings guidance we are projecting net sales to increase by a high single-digit percentage in both dollars and on a constant exchange rate basis with total sales and comparable store sales growth in all regions.
We finished last year with 289 company-operated stores in 24 countries and reflecting our ongoing strategy of opportunistic store expansion we expect to open 13 new stores in 2014 and close four.
New store plans include opening four stores in the Americas including three new stores in the U.S in Aventura Florida in Miami Design District and on Boston's Newbury Street closing our store in East Hampton and opening our 11<sup>th</sup> store in Mexico in Cancun opening five stores in Asia Pacific including three in China one in Australia in Adelaide and our first in Thailand and closing one store in Taiwan.
Opening two stores in Japan and closing one existing store opening a major store in Europe on the famous Champs-Elysee in Paris and in the emerging markets opening Tiffany's first company-operated store in Russia in Moscow and closing a small store in Dubai.
We will of course also be renovating a number of older stores to enhanced visual merchandising and the in-store customer experience.
We are projecting an increase in our operating margin tied to a higher gross margin and SG&amp;A expense leverage.
The forecasted gross margin improvement is based on sales leverage on fixed costs as well as taking on average a single-digit percentage price increase in this first quarter and some residual benefit from lower input costs.
We are also expecting some improvement in the SG&amp;A expense ratio this year coming from sales leverage on fixed cost.
We are projecting interest and other expenses net at $65 million to $70 million in 2014 with the increase over 2013 essentially reflected in the interest cost on higher average debt levels.
We are estimating an effective income tax rate of approximately 35% in 2014 which is virtually unchanged from the adjusted 34.8% rate in 2013.
In summary Tiffany enjoyed a solid year of sales and earnings growth and we believe company is well positioned for continued success throughout 2014.
We hope that you share our excitement about Tiffany's many growth opportunities.
On a final note I presume you saw the announcement two days ago that Tiffany has hired Mr.
Ralph Nicoletti as an Executive Vice President and to serve as the company's next Chief Financial Officer.
Ralph brings solid experience to Tiffany and a valuable global perspective and I'm sure that Mark will be introducing Ralph to many of you.
I believe we put together a strong global management team to lead the company to even greater success in the future.
I'm especially proud of the world-class finance IT operations and supply chain organization that we built and has decided that after an exciting 30-year career at Tiffany this is a good time for me to retire at the end of July.
I truly enjoyed my relationships with many of you on Wall Street and have appreciated your interest in Tiffany.
You can be sure that I will be following Tiffany's progress and its stock price and I wish all of you the best.
Now I will turn the call back to Mark.
Thank Jim.
We hope all of you on today's call found our comments to be informative.
A replay is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering pass code 5105327.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions and please note on your calendar that we plan to report first quarter financial results on Wednesday May 21<sup>st</sup> before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company First Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today’s call is Mr.
Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
And at this time I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and hello everyone.
Earlier today we issued Tiffany’s first quarter financial results and I hope I know you’ve had a chance to read the news release.
I’m pleased to have Tiffany's new Chief Financial Officer Ralph Nicoletti here with me to review highlights of those results and to comment on the outlook for the rest of the year.
As always we first ask you to note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany’s Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now we can proceed.
We think you will agree that Tiffany has enjoyed a strong start to 2014 with solid sales and earnings growth in the first quarter.
Worldwide net sales increased by 13% or 15% on a constant-exchange-rate basis with strong growth in most regions including unusually strong growth in Japan which I will address shortly.
We had a net of three stores sales growth occurred across all of jewelry categories which we are pleased to say included a healthy increase in the fashion jewelry category.
Operating margin rose due to a higher gross margin and an improved expense ratio and net earnings rose 50% on a GAAP basis and 41% when excluding one-time charges in last year’s first quarter.
Looking first at sales performance in the quarter all regions achieved total sales growth in dollars and on a constant-exchange-rate basis.
In the Americas region total sales rose 8% due to an increase in the average price per jewelry unit sold.
However while overall jewelry unit volume was almost equal to last year we were pleased with healthy unit growth in the fine solitaire and statement jewelry and engagement jewelry categories as well as with an improving trend in fashion jewelry.
We believe these improved results in the Americas reflect to some degree enhance selling initiatives being taken by regional management that are focused on better engaging customers through our sales professional and enhanced visual merchandising in our stores.
Another factor contributing to the growth were sales from our successful annual Blue Book event in April in New York.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis comparable store sales increased 8% which is on top of a 3% comp increase from last year’s first quarter.
Geographically we saw solid comp growth in many of our markets and in our New York flagship store.
In addition net sales growth in both the New York flagship store and the overall region was driven by a combination of domestic customer demand and sales to foreign tourists.
In fact we even saw slight sales increase in the tourist markets of Hawaii and Guam which had been challenging for a while.
Lastly I’m sure some of you’re wondering about our Valentine’s Day so I’m pleased to report that despite snowstorms that affected a number of our stores in the eastern U.S.
we enjoyed very good Valentine’s Day results.
In other parts of the Americas region a lack of sales growth in Canada surely reflected a difficult comparison to several large statement jewelry transactions last year.
On the other hand our stores in Latin America posted solid constant currency sales growth.
During the first quarter we opened a store in Cancun marking our 11th store in Mexico.
We also saw solid growth in the Asia Pacific region with total sales of 17% in the quarter primarily due to strong unit volume growth across all jewelry categories.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis sales rose 19% in the quarter with comp store sales growth of 10% that was generated by strong sales growth across Greater China as well as in Australia.
This was on top of a 9% comp increase in last year’s first quarter.
We didn’t open any stores in Asia Pacific in the quarter however to reiterate what’s been said in the past expanding brand awareness of Tiffany &amp; Co.
in China through our store base and marketing activities is important to generate local sales growth but also the influence Chinese tourists when they travel to our other markets.
As you saw in our news release Tiffany had a very strong quarter in Japan however you measure it.
In dollars total sales rose 20% due to growth both in the average price per jewelry unit sold and in jewelry unit volume.
But the yen was on average about 9% weaker than the U.S.
dollar year-over-year.
So when excluding that negative translation effect total sales in the yen increased 29% in the first quarter and comp store sales rose 30%.
We think you will agree that this substantial increase was even more impressive when we consider that comps in last year’s first quarter had increased 21%.
Of course it was widely reported in the media that overall consumer spending in Japan surged in March prior to an April 1st increase in their consumption tax.
And Tiffany sales surged to due to the pull forward of buying.
As expected since then we’ve been experiencing sales declines which have been recently moderating.
As a result we’re not changing our previous expectation for healthy sales growth in the full-year.
During the quarter we opened the store in the Sogo department store in Kobe.
Looking at Europe total sales rose 9% in the first quarter.
However a large portion of that sales increase reflected translation benefits from the strengthening of both the pound and euro versus the dollar.
Therefore on a constant-exchange-rate basis total sales rose 2% on higher jewelry unit volume while comp store sales declined 3% as compared to a 6% comp increase in the first quarter of 2013.
Geographically constant currency comps in the U.K.
and overall Continental Europe were similarly soft although individual performances by country within Continental Europe were mixed.
We believe Tiffany is being affected by economic challenges in some European countries but another factor to consider is tourism.
We have estimated that foreign tourist spending represents more than a quarter of our sales in Europe and those sales in the first quarter were flat with last year which might reflect the impact from strengthening European currencies.
But looking at the bigger picture Tiffany continues to expand its brand awareness in Europe and beyond and we’re confident that there are significant long-term store and market share growth opportunities.
We also expanded Tiffany’s presence in Paris last month when we opened a major store on the magnificent Champs Elysees; although the store’s grand opening celebration will be in a few weeks.
Not surprisingly the store is already serving many foreign visitors; in fact you might be interested to know that 15 languages are spoken by our staff in the Champs Elysees stores.
Rounding out the regional sales review Tiffany’s other sales increased 39% in the first quarter.
A portion of that increase was due to 18% comparable store sales growth in the five stores we operate in the United Arab Emirates.
In addition we were delighted to open our first company operated Tiffany &amp; Co.
store in Moscow in the famous GUM department store during the quarter and initial results were encouraging.
The balance of the increase in other sales was due to wholesale sales of diamonds that we acquired through our rough sourcing program and subsequently sell because they don’t need our requirements.
Our worldwide expansion plans continue to call for opening 13 stores in 2014 a few of which have a more noteworthy market presence and closing four smaller ones which in total represents a net 3% increase in company operated locations and a net 4% increase in gross square footage.
We will also be renovating a number of older stores to enhance their market presence visual merchandising and the in-store customer experience.
Beyond our store base worldwide e-commerce sales increased 6% in the first quarter.
In addition to contributing to overall sales growth our Web site served as an important marketing communications vehicle that helped to drive store traffic.
So that covers the regional sales review.
In terms of merchandising highlights for the quarter as I mentioned earlier we were pleased with varying degrees of sales growth in all product categories.
We continue to see healthy growth in statement fine and solitaire jewelry meaning pieces with diamonds and other gemstones at mid to higher price points.
As we’ve noted on previous calls we’ve been seeing increasing interest in colored diamonds and other gemstones and some examples would include the Yellow Diamond Enchant and Victoria collections among many others.
And in statement jewelry I already alluded to the success of our Blue Book event in April in New York.
That event showcase truly extraordinary and one of a kind pieces for select customers who visited us from around the world.
The response was excellent and sales far surpassed the successful Blue Book event we held last year.
The engagement jewelry category was another strong performer in the quarter reflecting substantial demand for diamond solitaire rings and wedding bands as well.
The relatively new Harmony collection continued to perform very well complimenting of course our iconic six-prong Tiffany setting and other settings too.
And we’re definitely encouraged with solid improvement in our fashion jewelry category in silver but even more so in gold pieces probably the biggest story in that category is the success of our distinctive Atlas collection introduced last fall and being expanded now with additional designs.
A few other product highlights worth mentioning in the fine and fashion categories in the first quarter included strong growth in Elsa Peretti Diamonds by the Yard a truly timeless collection originally introduced 40 years ago.
The continued resurgence of the Keys collection especially in styles with diamonds and Paloma Picasso’s Olive Leaf collection that debuted last year.
For later in the year we’re looking forward to the global introduction in September of a major new fashion jewelry collection with some pieces extending into fine jewelry in a range of precious metals both with and without diamonds.
Please stay tuned for that exciting launch.
So you can see that this strong sales growth in the first quarter clearly reflected solid results across most regions and product categories.
I’m now pleased to turn the call over to Ralph to review the rest of the earnings statement and the balance sheet and to update you on our full-year expectations.
Ralph? Ralph Nicoletti Thank you Mark.
I’m delighted to be at Tiffany.
Already in my brief time here I can clearly see the strength expansion potential and earnings power of this great brand.
Before going into the specifics the key points to take away which drove our first quarter results are solid broad based sales growth across product categories and most geographies accelerated purchasing patterns in Japan prior to the April 1st consumption tax increase margin improvement on both gross and operating level primarily driven by product cost pricing and leveraging fixed cost all of which leads to raising our full-year outlook to $4.15 to $4.25 per share.
As Mark provided the sales review I’ll now comment on the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 58.2% was 2 full points higher than last year with the improvement resulting from favorable product costs price increases taken across all product categories and regions and meaningful sales leverage on fixed cost and of course the strong sales increase in Japan had some positive effect on overall gross margin.
In addition because of the improvement in fashion jewelry sales we’re pleased to be seeing a narrowing gap in the rate of sales growth for this category relative to other jewelry categories which in the first quarter led to a minimal negative effect from sales mix on the gross margin.
Overall we continue to expect an increase in gross margin for the full-year but not at the first quarter’s magnitude.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 5% in the first quarter largely reflecting higher store related expenses and labor costs of which a portion is variable.
I should add that marketing expenses in the first quarter were lower than last year but we expect those expenses as initially planned to be considerably higher year-over-year for the remaining quarters of 2014.
As we noted in our release last year’s first quarter included $9 million of cost for staff and occupancy reductions.
Excluding those expenses SG&amp;A would have increased 8% in the quarter.
Our outlook for the full-year continues to call for SG&amp;A expense growth below the rate of sales growth.
Operating earnings grew 49% but 39% when excluding last year’s charges driven by sizable increases in sales and gross profits and leveraging SG&amp;A expenses which was partly driven by the timing of marketing spending.
Therefore the operating margin of 21% in the first quarter represented a solid increase over last year.
Interest and other expenses net were $16 million in the quarter.
And Tiffany’s effective income tax rate of 35.1% in the quarter was virtually in line with last year.
Putting it all together net earnings in the quarter rose 50% to $126 million or $0.97 per diluted share.
The increase was 41% when excluding the cost for staff and occupancy reductions in last year’s first quarter.
These operating results and efficient balance sheet are contributing to improvements in our returns on asset and equity.
As most of you know our long-term objectives continue to call for achieving at least a 10% ROA and at least a 15% ROE.
Regarding the balance sheet I believe we’ve a solid financial base to support the growth of our business.
Total debt as a percent of stockholders equity declined to 35% at April 30th from 37% a year-ago.
Our single largest asset on the balance sheet was inventories which totaled $2.4 billion at April 30th.
That represented a 6% increase over April of 2013 to support anticipated sales growth but also is indicative of our objective to keep inventory growth less than the rate of sales growth.
Of course that objective includes maintaining high levels of inventory availability for our stores while managing them as productively as possible.
Our accounts receivable was 7% above last year due to worldwide sales growth and receivable turnover is a healthy 21 times per year.
Capital expenditures were $35 million in the first quarter unchanged from last year’s first quarter.
As we previously disclosed we’re increasing full-year capital expenditures as a result of making greater information technology investments this year and next as we upgrade and introduce new systems for global customer relationship management and for more advanced order and inventory management capabilities.
As announced in March Tiffany Board of Directors authorized a repurchase of up to $300 million of our common stock over a three-year period.
We resumed repurchases in April and spent approximately $7 million to repurchase 82 000 shares at an average cost of approximately $87 per share.
We believe this is a good way to return some excess capital to stockholders and mitigate dilution on earnings per share from stock-based compensation.
Now I want to take a moment to comment on our full-year earnings outlook.
We began the year projecting net earnings in the range of $4.05 to $4.15 per share or 9% to 11% higher than the $3.73 per share that was earned in 2013.
Clearly we’ve had a strong start to the year but it’s only challenging to determine how much of those gains can be extrapolated for the rest of the year especially considering that the first quarter is historically the smallest one of the year.
In terms of the components of our forecast we’re continuing to project high single-digit percentage sales increase with all regions expected to achieve total sales growth in U.S.
dollars and varying degrees of comparable store sales growth on a constant-exchange-rate basis.
And I already mentioned that we’re expecting improvements in gross margin and the SG&amp;A expense ratio for the year.
As a result we’re increasing our full-year EPS forecast by $0.10 per share to $4.15 to $4.25 per share representing 11% to 14% growth from last year’s $3.73 per share.
This reflects our strong start.
However it is early in the year; there is uncertainty about when sales growth will resume in Japan and/or economic headwinds in Europe.
In fact those two factors that especially in Japan as well as higher marketing spending as we mentioned will likely result in the second quarter’s net earnings to be about equal to the prior-year.
In summary we hope you’re all in agreement that these results in most respects were a very nice start to the year.
We believe we’re well positioned for the rest of 2014 and beyond.
And beyond the key benefits derived from heritage and brand strength Tiffany has an experienced management team a solid base of store distribution with growth potential and extraordinary product assortment and a highly developed infrastructure and product supply chain.
I’m delighted to be part of Tiffany’s management team and I look forward to meeting many of you in the coming weeks and months.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope everyone found today’s call to be informative.
A replay is available on our Web site or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 2628868.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions and please take a moment now to note on your calendars that we plan to report second quarter financial results on Wednesday August 27 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
[No Q&amp;A for this event] Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today’s call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
And at this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and hello everyone.
We reported earlier today that Tiffany achieved better than expected financial results in the second quarter and I hope you’ve had a chance to read the news release.
On today’s call Ralph and I will review highlights of those results and comment on the full year outlook.
As always please first note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany’s Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let’s look at results.
As an overview Tiffany performed well in the second quarter with sales in most regions generally either met or exceeded our expectations.
Three months ago we had forecasted second quarter net earnings could be approximately equal to the prior year reflecting a substantial softening in demand in Japan sale which for the second quarter occurred as expected.
As well as continued softness in Europe which in fact softened more than we expected in the quarter.
But as a result of solid growth in the America and Asia Pacific regions worldwide net sales rose 7%.
Embedded in the overall results was broad-based growth in most product categories and especially at mid-to-higher price points.
Beyond the sales strength and important contributor to net earnings growth was an increase in gross margin which Ralph will address shortly.
SG&amp;A expenses paced a bit favorably to our expectation while interest and other expenses net and the effective tax rate were essentially on track.
Adding it all up Tiffany second quarter net earnings rose 16%.
Tiffany’s balance sheet remains strong and it made the Board of Directors increase the quarterly dividend rate by 12%.
Let’s now look at some details of regional sales performance in the quarter.
In the Americas total sales were up 9% primarily due to an overall increase in the average price per jewelry unit sold.
We were pleased to experience healthy unit growth in the statement fine and solitaire jewelry category as well as in our engagement jewelry and wedding band category.
And we’re pleased that fashion jewelry unit sales are benefiting from strength in gold jewelry.
However continued softness in silver jewelry unit sale in particular entry level sales under $500 was the reason why we had no growth in total jewelry units in the Americas.
We’ve now seen three consecutive quarters of sales improvement in the Americas which we believe reflect both internal and external factors.
Here’s the excitement of new products and compelling marketing but we believe we are also benefiting in the Americas from new in-store selling initiatives focused on better engaging and consulting with our customers as well as enhancements in the visual merchandizing formats in our stores with those programs being extended throughout the store network.
In addition we benefited from foreign tourist spending that is likely tied to growing brand awareness globally and perhaps some currency fluctuation too.
And of course conditions in the U.S.
are favorable for many of our customers.
On a constant and exchange rate basis comparable store sales rose 8% in the quarter which followed an 8% comp increase in the first quarter and compared with the flat comp in last year’s second quarter.
Geographically most markets in the U.S.
posted healthy sales growth.
A solid increase in New York flagship store sales was due to a combination of higher domestic customer demand as well as higher sales to foreign tourist especially from China and Europe.
And sales have rebounded nicely in the tourist markets of Hawaii and Guam.
During the quarter we opened a 4800 square foot store in the Aventura Mall near Miami marking our 94th store in the U.S.
Our expansion plans for later in the year include opening stores in the Miami design district and on Boston’s elegant Newbury Street.
Outside the U.S.
we experienced high single-digit to low double-digit local currency total sales growth with our growing presence in Canada Mexico and Brazil.
The Asia Pacific region achieved a 14% total sales increase in the quarter due to growth in the average price per jewelry unit sold and in jewelry unit volume.
On a constant-exchange-rate basis increases of 13% in total sales and 7% in comp store sales reflected strength primarily in greater China and in Australia.
You should note that the 7% comp increase followed a 10% increase in the first quarter and was on top of a 13% increase in last year’s second quarter.
We didn’t open any stores in this region during the quarter but are on track to open two stores later in the year; one in Adelaide Australia and one in China as well as relocating our store within the Hong Kong airport.
Two additional stores in China and one in Thailand that were initially scheduled to open near the end of this year are now slated to open in the first half of 2015 due to timing delays.
Now let’s turn to Japan where sales have been volatile to say the least in the first half of this year.
As I alluded to in the overview after experiencing a surge in spending in the first quarter as Japanese consumers purchased in advance of a consumption tax increase on April 1.
We anticipated a significant demand to offset in the second quarter which occurred as we expected.
The good news is that following a substantial sales decline in April we saw a decelerating rate of sales decline in each months of the second quarter.
However the return to monthly sales growth is taking longer than we expected.
Department stores in Japan have reported that they have also been experiencing sequentially smaller rates of sales declines in jewelry sales in the past several months.
Reflecting the volatility in Japan total sales declined 13% in the second quarter due to lower unit volume in all jewelry categories.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales declined 10% and comp store sales declined 13%.
However keep in mind that the 13% comp decline followed a 30% increase in the first quarter and was on top of an 8% comp increase in last year’s second quarter.
We do expect to return to single digit sales growth in Japan but have not yet done so in the first few weeks of August.
We did not add any new locations in Japan during the quarter but we do plan to open a freestanding store in Shinjuku later this year.
Total sales in Europe increased 8% in the second quarter but the sales growth largely reflected the translation benefits from the stronger pound and euro versus the dollar.
Looking at results on a constant exchange rate basis total sales were up just 1% with higher jewelry unit volume offsetting lower average price and comp store sales declined 8%.
This was a further slowdown from the 3% comp decline we had in the first quarter but was on top of the 7% comp increase in last year’s second quarter.
In terms of market performance across Europe most countries posted weak sales results.
Although the UK’s decline was greater than that of Continental Europe reflecting to some degree a decline in tourists spending in London.
We think the weakness in the UK and to some degree on the Continent too might be resulting from the strength of the pound and euro which perhaps could also be enticing Europeans to shop in the U.S.
and elsewhere.
As most of you know a few months ago we expanded Tiffany’s presence in Paris to a fourth location when we opened the major store on the Champs Elysees which is serving fine visitors and local shoppers as well.
In fact and not too surprisingly that store is quickly becoming one of our highest sales volume stores in Europe.
All in all we believe Tiffany is still feeling the effects of both economic and currency related challenges in Europe although we are partially benefiting in the U.S.
from European tourist spending.
But longer term we are as excited as ever about Tiffany’s expansion plans and growth potential in Europe.
Wrapping up the regional sales review as our other segment where the bulk of the 28% sales increase in the second quarter was from retail sales largely from the opening of our store in Moscow in February as well as from 2% comp store sales growth in our five stores in the UAE.
In addition there was an increase in wholesale sales of diamond acquired through our rough sourcing program and subsequently sold because they don’t meet our requirements.
Although we had thought wholesale sales would have been higher in the quarter and therefore would have more negatively affected gross margin.
Our websites around the world effectively complement our worldwide store base and e-commerce sales have been growing roughly in line with our overall worldwide sales.
Of course beyond generating online sales our website service powerful marketing vehicle to build brand and product awareness and drive store traffic.
To summarize various worldwide store expansion plans I mentioned in each region we are now expecting to open 10 stores in 2014 instead of the initial plan that called for 13 stores with the reduction due to the delays in opening two stores planned in China a store planned in Bangkok.
Also we now plan to close three stores this year instead of our initial intention to close four because the store in Japan will be relocated within its host department store instead of being closed.
In total this represents a net 2% increase in company operated locations and a net 3% increase in gross square footage.
In addition to our strategy to gradually expand our company operated store base we are of course also renovating older stores with the objective to enhance visual merchandizing and the in store customer experience and to achieve the most effective space utilization.
So that wraps up the regional sales review.
There are number of noteworthy highlights among our product categories with the key takeaway has been continued strength at mid-to-higher price points and healthy growth in both perennial classics and newer designs.
Specifically in the statement fine and solitaire jewelry category we enjoyed strong statement jewelry sales in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions resulting in part from customers who may have attended our successful Blue Book event in New York in April.
There was also healthy increase in fine jewelry sales in all regions excluding Japan which of course had an exceptional first quarter increase.
Fine jewelry highlights include the ongoing success of our Yellow Diamond collection Elsa Peretti Diamonds by the Yard collection and our important Victoria collection.
We’ve spoken for some time now about the increasing popularity of colored diamonds and other gemstones and our design initiatives in recent years have addressed that growing interest.
In our fashion jewelry category which primarily includes jewelry without gemstones we’re seeing particular strength in gold jewelry in a number of collections.
Total silver jewelry sales were unchanged from the year ago as growth in higher-end silver pieces offset softness at entry level price point.
The biggest story as we noted since last fall is the tremendous success of our Atlas jewelry collection introduce the best time and expanded with additional pieces in the spring.
And another popular collection demonstrating timelessness of design after many years in our assortment is our Return to Tiffany collection.
Two very popular collections that span the fashion in fine jewelry categories at Tiffany Keys which has been expanded with diamond accents and our Enchant collection which has been expanded into designs incorporating the RUBEDO metal.
Lastly the engagement jewelry and wedding band category was strong especially in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions led of course by our extraordinary Tiffany solitaire diamond ring and we’re delighted with the growing popularity of our relatively new harmony engagement collection.
Looking forward we are excited about the launch of our new Tiffany T jewelry collection.
Tiffany T is being offered in a range of materials with the majority of styles in yellow white or rose gold with and without diamonds as well as some pieces in sterling silver making the collection available in a wide range of prices from a few hundred dollars up to about $20 000.
This collection have more than 50 styles was introduced last week in our U.S.
Canadian and Latin American stores and will be available globally in September.
You may have seen new advertising now appearing in magazines and on tiffany.com.
That’s just the start of the campaign and we intend to substantially step up ad spending in the third quarter to promote awareness of this dramatic new collection.
Lastly outside of jewelry we’re excited to be launching in the coming weeks a beautiful and elegant new collection of hand bags and small leather goods.
The tightly focused assortment reflects a new modern aesthetic intended to attract and appeal the fashion-focused existing and new customers.
I’ll now turn the call over to Ralph to review the rest of the earnings statement the balance sheet and our full year expectations.
Ralph.
Thank you Mark.
Clearly we had a strong quarter reflecting solid execution of our strategies in a volatile global environment.
The key takeaways driving results were broad base sales growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific more than offsetting the expected decline in Japan and softness in Europe.
Sales strength across all key product categories and price strata and highlighted by improving fashion jewelry sales a meaningful increase in gross margin and strong operating earnings growth while increasing our marketing investment.
Factoring in the results from the second quarter tempered with a bit of caution because of Europe and Japan and a generally uncertain global environment we are raising our full year earnings forecast by $0.05 per share representing a portion of the second quarters better than expected net earnings.
Now I’ll comment on the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin rose 2.4 points to 59.9% in the second quarter largely due to favorable product costs and price increases taken across all product categories and regions.
And to a lesser extent some sales leverage on fixed costs.
Additionally we are pleased to see fashion jewelry sales grow in line with total company sales which contributed to the margin exceeding our expectations.
Gross margin also benefited versus our forecast from a lower than expected level of wholesale sales of diamonds.
We saw a 9% increase in selling general and administrative expenses in the second quarter primarily reflecting higher fixed and variable labor and store-related cost.
In addition marketing spending rose in the quarter and we expect the year-over-year growth to accelerate further in the second half of the year but especially in the third quarter tied to the launch of the Tiffany T collection.
In fact while marketing spending in the first half of the year was about unchanged from the prior year we are planning for to increase year-over-year by a double digit percentage in the second half.
While SG&amp;A expenses rose a bit more than sales growth in the second quarter we continue to expect that that rate of SG&amp;A expense growth will be less than sales growth for the full year.
As a result of the increases in sales and gross margin operating earnings increased 18% in the quarter while the operating margin rose to 21% from 19% in last year’s second quarter.
Interest and other expenses net of $16 million in the quarter were about a $1 million above last year and the effective income tax rate of 35.5% in the quarter was 1.3 points above last year but that was largely due to a one-time effect of a change in certain state tax legislation.
Adding it all up net earnings in the second quarter increased 16% to $124 million or $0.96 per share.
Tiffany’s strong balance sheet gives us a solid foundation to support our current business and planned growth.
At the end of the second quarter we had $398 million of cash and cash equivalents versus $490 million a year ago and our debt leverage remains essentially unchanged.
Inventories of $2.5 billion at July 31 were up 9% from a year ago partly to support overall anticipated sales growth but with disproportionate increases in raw materials and work in process inventories partly to support the launch of the Tiffany T collection.
Our full year and longer term objective continues to call for maintaining inventory growth less than the rate of sales growth.
Capital expenditures of $91 million in the first half were up just slightly from last year’s first half.
For the full year we continue to forecast CapEx at $270 million versus the $220 million last year reflecting incremental investments in information technology including the global customer relationship management system and more advanced order and inventory management capabilities.
In terms of share repurchases during the quarter we spent approximately $9 million to repurchase 102 000 shares at an average cost of approximately $91 a share.
There was $284 million available for future repurchases under a $300 million three-year program that was authorized by Tiffany’s Board of Directors in March.
As Mark mentioned Tiffany’s Board increased the quarterly dividend rate by 12% in the second quarter reflecting our longer term objective to grow dividends roughly in line with earnings growth and thus maintaining the current payout ratio.
Let’s now look at our outlook for the full year.
We began 2014 projecting net earnings in the range of $4.05 to $4.15 per share or 9% to 11% higher than the adjusted $3.73 per share that was earned in 2013.
When we reported strong first quarter results we increased the forecasted range by $0.10 per share.
Now based on performance in the second quarter but tempered by macro uncertainties and specifically the continued softness in Europe and the lingering sales declines in Japan we are raising our forecasted range by $0.05 to $4.20 to $4.30 per share which will represent full year EPS growth of 13% to 15%.
That full year forecast continues to call for a high single digit percentage increase in worldwide net sales in dollars and we expect a healthy increase in the operating margin for the full year coming from a higher gross margin but factoring in gross margin in the second half being up less than in the first half.
And we expect some improvement in the SG&amp;A expense ratio for the year despite the considerably higher marketing spending.
Summing up Tiffany’s performance in the first half of the year was quite good in most respects although a bit more volatile than we expected.
With our growing store base compelling product designs and new advertising we believe we are nicely positioned for a successful second half of the year.
I’ll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope you’ve all benefited from the information and insights we’ve shared with you on today’s call.
A replay of the call is available on our Web site or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 7635206.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions and please note on your calendars that we plan to report third quarter financial results on Tuesday November 25th before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
[No Q&amp;A session for this event] Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Third Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today’s call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Hello everyone.
Earlier today we reported Tiffany’s third quarter results and I hope you’ve had a chance to review the news release.
On today’s call Ralph and I will comment on those results and on the full year outlook.
Before continuing please first note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany’s Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now turning to results.
As an overview Tiffany’s worldwide sales rose 5% in the quarter with mixed performance by region due to a variety of factors that I’ll address in a moment.
There was a 2% negative translation effect from the strengthening U.S dollar.
And sales on a constant exchange rate basis rose 7%.
By product category we saw the greatest strength in fashion jewelry sales.
The operating margin was up from last year resulting from a gross margin increase that more than offset higher SG&amp;A growth.
And that SG&amp;A increase included the stepped up marketing spending that we had discussed on last quarter’s call.
During the quarter we completed a long term bond issuance to prepay high rate existing debt which reduced the future interest expense and extends long term debt maturities.
We recorded a $94 million one-time charge for the debt extinguishment.
Adding it all up Tiffany’s third quarter net earnings increased 5% excluding the charge but declined 60% with the charge.
Let’s now look at regional sales performance in the quarter.
Starting with the Americas region total sales increased 10% in the quarter due to an overall increase in the average price per jewelry unit sold reflecting price increases taken in the Americas and other regions as well but also stronger demand for gold within the fashion jewelry category.
It’s worth noting that there was healthy unit growth in most categories but that was offset by continued unit declines in entry level price point silver jewelry.
We attribute the healthy sales growth from the Americas to a range of factors including more engaging selling initiatives and visual merchandizing in our stores new products compelling marketing and what has been a favorable macro environment for our core customers.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 11% in the quarter and comparable store sales also increased 11% following an 8% comp increase in the first half of this year and compared with a 1% comp increase in the third quarter of last year.
We experienced healthy rates of sales growth in most markets of the U.S.
Sales growth in the New York flagship store benefited from increased local demand while foreign tourist spending was about equal to last year.
In terms of new stores earlier this month we opened a 2 000 square foot store on Boston’s fashionable Newbury Street and expect to soon open a 5 000 square foot store in the exciting Miami Design District.
Elsewhere in the Americas region we were pleased to see solid double digit local currency sales growth in Canada Mexico and Brazil in the quarter.
The Asia pacific region had its challenges in the quarter starting with the difficult comparison to a 22% comp store sales increase last year which at that time had been driven by broad based growth across the region including some statement jewelry sales.
It was a different picture in this third quarter with double digit comp store sales growth in mainland China offset by varying degrees of softness in other markets.
We’d expected only modest comp growth in Asia Pacific in this third quarter.
As we’ve said before Greater China now consisting of a total of 45 stores in mainland China Hong Kong Taiwan and Macao represents more than half of our Asia Pacific sales.
And our nine stores in Hong Kong contribute a meaningful part of those greater China sales.
To no one’s surprise recent protests and demonstrations have led to a decline in visitors coming to Hong Kong which we believe was the primary factor adversely affecting sales at several of our Hong Kong stores including one at their airport.
In total Asia Pacific sales increased 2% due to growth in the engagement jewelry and wedding bands category and the fashion jewelry category.
Looking at results on a constant exchange rate basis total sales also rose 2% and comp store sales declined 3% which as I said reflected mixed performance across most markets but strong comp growth in mainland China.
Regarding new store activity in this region just a week ago we opened our seventh store in Australia in Adelaide and we anticipate opening our 27th store in China in January.
Turning to Japan total sales on a constant exchange rate basis declined 5% in the third quarter due to lower unit volume in all jewelry categories.
And comp store sales declined 6% versus a 5% comp increase in last year’s third quarter.
However the Yen averaged 106 to the dollar in the third quarter versus 98 a year ago.
So including that negative translation effect sales in dollars declined 12%.
The Yen has weakened further since the end of the quarter being quoted at 118 to the dollar today.
I presume by now you’re all aware of the extreme volatility in consumer spending before and after an increase in Japan’s consumption tax on April 1st.
As a result Tiffany’s comp store sales on a constant exchange rate basis had increased 30% in the first quarter due to substantial pull forward of demand and then declined 13% in the second quarter.
The return to monthly sales growth is taking longer than anticipated and we believe softness is now being exacerbated by weakening economic conditions.
Despite the volatility our sales in Japan and year to date have grown at a modest single digit rate in Yen as we typically expect over the longer term.
We increased our store count by one in Japan during the quarter when we opened a highly visible 3 000 square foot free standing store in the important Shinjuku area of Tokyo.
While we were pleased with an overall improvement in European sales performance sales results by market were mixed.
Total sales rose 9% in the third quarter due to sales growth in all jewelry categories tied to both higher volume and average price.
And that total sales growth came from higher spending by both local customers and foreign tourists.
Looking at it on a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 10% and comp store sales rose 2% which followed a 5% comp decline in the first half of the year and compared with a 2% comp increase in last year’s third quarter.
We saw quite a contrast in European sales results between the UK and the continent.
All countries in which we operate stores in continental Europe achieved varying degrees of comp store sales growth in local currencies tied to both local customer and foreign tourist spending.
However comps continued to decline in the UK reflecting some softness in both customer categories.
In Paris we continue to be very satisfied with the initial sales results and brand enhancing exposure from the major store we opened on the Champs Elysees earlier this year which is serving both foreign visitors and local shoppers.
Lastly we had a solid quarter in our other segment with 28% sales growth in the quarter.
This performance was driven by strong 35% comp store sales growth and the sales in our first company operated store in Moscow which opened earlier this year.
With all the talk about tourism it’s important to think about it from a global perspective.
Tiffany’s expanding store base positions us nicely to benefit where the customers spend locally or when they travel.
Therefore shifts in spending from one market to another whether local or tourist related tied to currency shifts or other macro events become less relevant as long as we are serving the customer somewhere.
Summarizing our worldwide store expansion plans we are on track to have opened 10 stores by the end of this fiscal year and to have closed two older ones.
In total this represents net increases of 3% both in company operated stores and in gross square footage.
In addition to expanding our company operated store base we continue to focus on renovating and in a few cases relocating existing stores to enhance the in-store experience for our customers and to optimize space utilization.
So while we continue to expand our store base at a measured pace it goes without saying that maximizing the quality of distribution is the highest priority.
Beyond stores I just want to reiterate that our websites around the world continue to serve two important functions as sales vehicles but equally important for marketing communication that can drive brand and product awareness and store traffic.
That concludes the regional sales review.
In terms of merchandizing highlights we saw strong growth in our fashion jewelry category and at relatively higher price points.
In the fashion jewelry category which primarily includes jewelry without gemstones we’re delighted with the initial response to our new Tiffany T collection targeted to the style conscious female self-purchase customer with wide ranging and global appeal.
Tiffany T is offered in a range of materials with the majority of designs in yellow white or rose gold with and without diamonds as well as some pieces in sterling silver making the collection available in a wide range of prices from a few hundred dollars up to about $20 000.
For the T collection as well as our successful Atlas collection launched over the past year it’s worth noting that gold jewelry is performing especially well.
Sales in the engagement jewelry and wedding band category rose modestly in the quarter and our relatively new Harmony engagement collection is growing in popularity.
Our expanded Keys collection is also performing well globally with some expansion of styles and fashion in fine jewelry.
Also worth noting is the continued success of our yellow diamond collection Elsa Peretti’s Diamonds by the Yard collection and our beautiful Victoria collection.
Ralph will now review the rest of the earning statement the balance sheet and our full year expectations.
Thank you Mark for that sales review.
Topline results were clearly mixed for a variety of reasons during the quarter but we are executing our strategies well despite the volatile global environment.
I think the key takeaways affecting third quarter results were sales growth benefited from strength in the Americas and improving trends in Europe partially offset by softness in Asia Pacific and Japan.
Healthy fashion jewelry sales growth was led by strength in gold jewelry and operating margin increase that was tied to continued solid gains in gross margin despite a substantial year over year increase in marketing spending.
And we are maintaining our most recent full year earnings outlook.
As Mark provided an update on our sales performance I will now review the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin was 59.5% in the third quarter up from 57% last year due to favorable product and book costs and price increases taken across all product categories and regions as well as strong sales growth in fashion jewelry.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 10% in the third quarter notably reflecting the substantial increase in marketing spending that we planned and had highlighted on our call three months ago.
Much of that marketing increase was tied to the launch of the Tiffany T collection which will continue to substantially lift marketing spending in the fourth quarter as well.
Operating earnings increased 10% on the 5% sales growth and the operating margin increased 70 basis points in the quarter as the higher gross margin more than offset the higher SG&amp;A spending.
As previously disclosed we took a one-time charge in the third quarter for a loss on debt extinguishment tied to prepaying during the quarter $400 million of long term debt that carried an average interest rate of 9.8% with maturities between 2015 and 2019.
The $94 million pretax charge equated to $61 million after tax or fully $0.07 per diluted share.
We replaced it by issuing $550 million of long term debt during the quarter with an average interest rate of 4.4% and maturities of 10 years for $250 million and 30 years for $300 million.
This was an important step to lowering our ongoing interest cost and extend maturities.
Interest and other expenses net in the third quarter was $15 versus $14 million last year.
And the effective income tax rate of 35.5% in the quarter was 3.2 points above last year when we had benefited from a one-time favorable impact of tax regulations as well as differences in geographical mix of earnings.
In total net earnings excluding the debt extinguishment charge rose 5% in the quarter to $99 million or $0.76 per share although net earnings declined 60% including the charge.
Turning to the balance sheet we finished the quarter in a strong position with substantial liquidity.
Net inventories at October 31 were up 6% versus year ago to support new stores and product introductions.
We now expect a high single digit increase in net inventories for this year.
Our longer term objective continues to call for keeping inventory growth less than the rate of sales growth.
Capital expenditures of $153 million in the year to date were similar to the $149 million at this time last year.
For the full year we are now forecasting CapEx at $250 million versus $220 million last year with the increase tied to information technology with the development of a global customer relationship management system and more advanced order and inventory management capabilities.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 63 000 shares at an average cost of $92 a share.
This leaves $278 million available for future repurchases under our $300 million three-year program that expires in March of 2017.
Factoring in everything I’ve mentioned in our overall liquidity position at the end of the third quarter we had $383 million of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments versus $521 million a year ago.
The total of short term and long term debt as a percent of stockholders equity was 37% versus 36% a year ago.
I want to wrap up the call with a brief comment on our full year outlook.
We began 2014 projecting net earnings in the range of $4.05 to $4.15 per share or 9% to 11% higher than the adjusted $3.73 per share that was earned in 2013.
We have raised the range twice after reporting first and second quarter results.
And today based on these third quarter results we are affirming our most recent forecast at $4.20 to $4.30 per share excluding the debt extinguishment charge representing estimated full year EPS growth of 13% to 15%.
Our full year forecast now calls for a mid to high single digit percentage increase in worldwide sales in dollars versus our previous high single digit forecast.
We have been feeling some adverse effects from the stronger U.S dollar which would have had a greater effect on the rate of sales growth in the fourth quarter and into next year if the current exchange rates hold where they are now.
We continue to expect a healthy increase in the operating margin for the full year but coming entirely from the higher gross margin.
To conclude Tiffany has performed well so far this year although regional performance outside the Americas has been volatile.
Most importantly we’ve successfully added stores in a number of key markets.
We have expanded our assortment with the exciting Tiffany T collection among others.
We have evolved our marketing communications and we continue to enhance our in-store experience.
Those initiatives position us well going forward.
We wish you happy holidays in the coming weeks and now I’ll turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope you’ve all found this third quarter review to be informative.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 7930515.
As always please feel free to call me with any questions.
Please note on your calendars that we plan to report holiday sales results on January 12 before the market opens and as typical without a conference call.
Thanks for listening.
[No Q&amp;A session for this event] That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Fourth Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Mr.
Frederic Cumenal President Mr.
Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Greetings from New York and hello everyone.
We reported Tiffany's fourth quarter and full year results this morning and I presume you've already had a chance to review the news release.
On today's call Ralph and I will comment on those results and Tiffany's 2015 plans and outlook.
And we are pleased to have Frederic join us to wrap up the call with some strategic observations.
Before continuing please note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Okay.
Let's begin with an overview of fourth quarter results.
Sales performance by region was mostly inline with the holiday sales results we've reported on January 12.
Net worldwide sales in the fourth quarter declined 1% but rose 3% on a constant exchange rate basis that excludes the translation effect of the stronger U.S.
dollar.
We expect to see a continuation of that substantial headwind from the strong dollar in 2015.
In local currencies we were pleased that Tiffany performed well in Europe and Asia Pacific and not surprised that we experienced softness in Japan.
However we were disciplined with the underperformance in the Americas.
Also in the fourth quarter the operating margin was down slightly from last year's margin excluding the charge while growth margin increased in the quarter the improvement was offset by higher marketing spending and deleveraging of SG&amp;A fixed costs.
Interest and other expenses net were above last year but the prior year included a one time foreign currency transaction gain.
The effective tax rate was below last year.
So in total net earnings of a $1.51 per diluted share in the fourth quarter was up slightly from last year's $1.47 excluding charges and at the high end of the forecast we provided in January.
For all of 2014 worldwide net sales rose to $4.25 billion.
That represented a 5% increase in dollars or a 7% increase on a constant exchange rate basis which was on top of a 10% increase in 2013 on that same basis.
Net earnings for the full year rose 167% to $484 million or $3.73 per diluted share.
However on an apples-to-apples basis excluding charges in both years net earnings rose 13% and EPS of $4.20 was slightly better than the original guidance of $4.05 to $4.15 that we published at this time a year ago.
And that 13% earnings increase in 2014 was on top of the non-GAAP 15% increase in net earnings that we achieved in 2013.
Let's now look at the details of our regional sales performance.
First there were minimal changes in our regional sales mix in 2014.
The Americas represented 48% of worldwide net sales in 2014 unchanged from 2013.
Asia Pacific was 24% of worldwide sales up slightly from 23% a year ago.
Japan was 13% down slightly from 14% in 2013 and that was largely due to currency translation and Europe at 12% of worldwide sales was unchanged.
Let's look at the Americas which had a good year but finished on a soft note.
On a constant exchange rate basis both total sales and comp store sales were unchanged in the fourth quarter versus a 7% comp increase last year.
However for the full year on a constant exchange rate basis total sales and comps rose 6% on top of a 3% comp increase in 2013.
In dollars total sales in the Americas declined 1% in the quarter due to lower units sold offsetting favorable average price and mix.
A 6% sales increase in the full year reflected favorable average price in mix currently offset by jewelry unit declines in silver jewelry under $500.
The strong U.S.
dollar had a minimal negative translation effect on the Americas sales but is having an adverse effect on foreign tourists spending in the U.S.
especially in New York.
And this effect certainly worsened in the later part of 2014.
Foreign tourist spending has historically represented about a quarter of annual U.S.
sales.
Although we no longer can precisely measure it due to privacy laws in some large markets but we can safely say it is the meaningful portion of the regional sale.
And in fact continue to represent more than 40% of sales in the New York flagship store in 2014.
We attribute the Americas comp decline in the fourth quarter to softness that was broad based geographically across the U.S.
and in most product categories except fashion jewelry.
On a related note while the Tiffany T collection preformed very well it is possible that the concentrated advertising focus on that collection may not have benefited other collections as we had expected.
We attribute the softness in the under $500 silver jewelry category to a lack of product newness and marketing focus and perhaps also the competitive and macro pressures on the jewelry purchaser at those price points.
So we do have some opportunity to fine tune our approaches to those issues within our control.
Elsewhere in the Americas we were pleased with solid total sales growth in Canada and Latin America on a constant exchange rate basis in both the fourth quarter and the full year.
We finished the year operating a 122 Tiffany stores in the Americas versus 121 at the end of 2013.
During the year we opened three stores in the region on Boston’s Newbury Street in Florida’s Aventura mall and in Cancun Mexico and we closed two small stores in East Hampton New York and in the whole ran through department store in Ottawa Canada.
Already in early February we've opened a stunning store in the new Miami Design District.
Let’s now turn to the Asia Pacific region.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 7% in the quarter and comp rose 3% on top of a 4% comp increase in last years quarter.
While the full year total sales rose 10% and comps rose 4% on top of an 11% comp increase in 2013.
Translated into U.S.
dollars Asia Pacific sales increased 4% in the fourth quarter due to favorable average price in mix partly offset by some unit declines.
Sales in the full year rose 9% due to favorable average jewelry pricing mix as well as higher jewelry units sold.
Quarterly sales performance in Asia Pacific on a constant exchange rate basis was led by strong growth in China Australia and Singapore partly offset by softness in Hong Kong.
While for the full year we were pleased to achieve broad based growth in most countries.
Sales in greater China was a total of 45 stores in China Hong Kong Taiwan and Macau continue to represent more than half of Asia Pacific region sales in 2014.
Starting in the third quarter Tiffany has seen a mark softening in sales results in Hong Kong and we're also experiencing weakness in Macau.
We believe that some tourists may be diverting their travels to other markets or perhaps increasing their spending locally.
So we concluded 2014 operating 73 Tiffany stores in the Asia Pacific region versus 72 at the end of the 2013.
Opening only one store in this region during the year in Adelaide Australia is not indicative of our planned rate of annual expansion.
However three stores that we have planned to open in the region last year were temporarily delayed.
Two of those stores in China in the MixC mall in Hangzhou and in the New World Daimaru Department Store in Shanghai have already opened this year.
It was certainly a volatile year for us in Japan dealing with the effect of an increase in the consumption tax on April 1 followed by the effect of a weakening Yen and then an economic recession.
When measured in Yen total sales in Japan increased 1% in the fourth quarter due to favorability in average pricing mix mostly offset by decline in jewelry units sold.
For the full year a 4% total sales increase in Yen was due to favorable price and mix also partly offset by a decline in jewelry units sold.
Comp store sales declined 5% in Yen in the quarter versus an 8% increase in last year’s fourth quarter and comps increased 1% for the full year versus a 10% increase in 2013.
So while we definitely had our challenges in Japan in 2014 we believe our two year run rate is respectable.
The Yen weakened 8% on average against the U.S.
dollar in 2014 and that's after weakening about 20% on average in 2013.
Therefore when translated into dollars total sales in Japan declined 13% in the fourth quarter and 4% for the full year.
Such a substantial move in the Yen has clearly caused softness and spending by Japanese tourists when they travel but might be supporting some local spending in Japan.
In addition although we have seen a gradual increase in spending by Chinese tourists in Japan overall spending by foreign tourists visiting Japan is still not yet meaningful for us.
During 2014 we opened two stores in Japan in Kobe and in the Shinjuku section of Tokyo and finished the year operating 56 Tiffany stores.
Now turning to Europe we also faced some macro economic challenges but nonetheless performed well.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 9% in the fourth quarter led by growth in our three major continental European markets of Germany Italy and France and comp store sales rose 4%.
Our net basis for the full year total sales rose 6% but comp stores declined 1%.
Sales in the U.K.
represented about 40% of total Europe in 2014 and its performance was relatively softer than Continental Europe in both the quarter and full year.
The Euro and the Pound weakened against the U.S.
dollar in 2014.
Therefore when translated into U.S.
dollars total European sales in the fourth quarter were flat with the prior year with no significant changes in jewelry units sold price or mix while conversely for the full year total sales rose 6% due to similar favorability in jewelry units sold average price and mix.
Those weaker currencies have likely contributed to the attractiveness of shopping in Europe and foreign tourist spending represents approximately a quarter of our European sales.
During 2014 we expanded Tiffany's presence in Paris with the opening of the major store on the important Champs Elysees.
The prominent point of location is enjoying a successful first year serving foreign tourists as well as for Asians and it has been important complement to Tiffany's other stores on Rue de La Paix and in the galleries Lafayette and Printemps department stores.
We finished the year operating 38 stores in Europe.
Rounding out the geographies is our other segment which primarily consist the retail store sales in the United Arab Emirates and Russia as well as wholesale diamond sales and some licensing revenues.
In the fourth quarter other sales increased 12% due to incremental sales from our store that we opened in Moscow in February 2014 while comp store sales declined 8% due to soft demand in the five stores we operate in UAE.
Although I should add that this compared with the strong 23% comp increase in last year’s fourth quarter.
For the full year other sales rose 26% partly due to the Moscow store sales as well as an 8% increase in comp store sales.
So in total we opened eight company operated Tiffany &amp; Co stores in 2014 and closed two.
That net addition of six stores was a 2% increase in our store base and a 3% increase in worldwide square footage.
You should also keep in mind that beyond opening new stores we are equally focused on enhancing the quality of our existing store base and as such we will be pursuing a number of relocations and some major renovations in 2015.
We are currently planning to increase our company operated stores by a net of approximately 12 to 15 stores during 2015.
A majority of that net addition is planned in Asia Pacific with the balance in the Americas and Europe.
In total this will represent a 4% to 5% net increase in our company operated store base and in worldwide square footage.
Looking at regional sales productivity in 2014 total sales and dollars per growth square foot for company operated stores was unchanged at approximately $3100.
By region the ranking remained unchanged from the prior year with Asia Pacific continuing to rank highest with $5 000 productivity versus $4800 in 2013 followed by Japan at $3400 versus $3800 in 2013 then Europe at $3200 down from $3300 in 2013 to the Americas at $2500 per square foot up from $2400 in 2013.
At this point it's also worth mentioning the effectiveness of Tiffany's omni-channel platform.
Our company operated store base as complemented by e-commerce enabled websites in 13 countries and informational sites in several others.
We have a dual objective of generating ecommerce sales growth in each region but importantly also communicating Tiffany's brand and product message to consumers in order to drive store traffic as well.
Total e-commerce sales continue to represent 6% of net worldwide sales in 2014.
There was a noteworthy merchandising highlights in 2014.
First we were pleased to experience growth in all major categories for the year led by growth in our fashion jewelry categories and specifically in gold jewelry.
We also saw a healthy growth in engagement jewelry in 2014 but only modest growth in the statement fine and solitaire category.
From a worldwide price stratification perspective there was sales growth in every price strata above $500 up to statement jewelry above $50 000.
Following on the successful launch in 2013 is the exciting reinterpretation of our Atlas collection our design team created another success with their modern innovative new Tiffany T collection.
Ranging in price from a few hundred dollars to $20 000 the Tiffany T collection is targeted towards stylish female self purchase customers as well as attracting gift purchasers.
And as intended its appeal is global.
Consistent with our brand strategy it's worth noting that Tiffany T continues our evolution toward introducing compelling designs at higher price points.
And in its first few months is generating the highest ever average transaction size for a new fashion jewelry collection at Tiffany.
On a related note while both Atlas and Tiffany T incorporate the use of various precious metals we have seen a clear preference for the gold design.
In fact that trend is evidenced throughout the fashion jewelry category with considerable strength in gold jewelry sales being partly offset by the softness in silver jewelry sales especially in that price strata under $500.
I should also call up the resurgence of our Keys collection originally introduced in 2009 but expanded over the past two years with a beautiful new designs incorporating colored gemstones as well as rose gold.
I mentioned sales growth in the engagement jewelry category which is led of course by the popularity of our iconic six pronged setting.
A strong addition to the engagement category has been the harmony engagement ring which in just over two years has become our second best selling style in our bridal assortment.
And sales of wedding band rings in the engagement category were strong in the year.
Overall our sales growth in the engagement category was led by strength in the Asia Pacific and the Americas regions.
The more modest sales increased in fine and solitaire jewelry in 2014 was spread among various collections and designs.
With noteworthy callouts being the classic Victoria collection with new styles added in 2014 and the beautiful Soleste collection which is diamond-focused and was expanded in 2014 to incorporate greater use of colored stones.
As on aside and a possible explanation for some of the softness in fine and solitaire jewelry sales especially in the fourth quarter we've heard anecdotal speculation that strong demand for the Tiffany T collection may have pulled some demand from the fine jewelry category.
Lastly while there was plenty of activity in high-end statement jewelry in 2014 worldwide sales of that category were about equal to the prior year's level.
I hope you now have a better understanding of Tiffany's top line performance in 2014 and I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Ralph.
Thank you Mark for that comprehensive sales review.
Reflecting on 2014 I'd like to highlight a few important points before getting into the specifics.
We are effectively executing our strategies to continue to strengthen and elevate the Tiffany brand.
In 2014 we expanded our global footprint in key locations we strengthened our position in the important fashion jewelry category with the introduction of the Tiffany T collection and we advanced key product development initiatives for introduction in 2015 and beyond.
We improved gross margin and operating margin while increasing our investment in marketing.
And we strengthened or balance sheet by keeping our inventory growth to a lower rate in sales growth and we lowered our cost of debt significantly while extending maturities and generating strong free cash flow.
As we exited 2014 we were clearly facing challenges in 2015 from the strong U.S.
dollar.
Tourist purchases are expected to continue to be pressured in Americas gross margin is expected to improve in 2015 but at a lesser rate than in 2014 and negative translation is expected to continue to mute sales and earnings growth.
However we have the ability to continue to invest in the Tiffany brand and improve our capabilities to continue to deliver value for our shareholders over time.
Now that I've framed that overall message let's take a look at the rest of the components in the earning statement that excluding charges in 2014 and 2013 contributed to deliver our -- contributed to our delivering the 13% increase in net earnings for the full year.
Gross margin in the year rose 1.6 points to 59.7% benefiting from favorable product input cost price increases taken earlier in the year and a sales mix that moved favorably toward our higher margin fashion jewelry category later in the year.
Gross margin in the fourth quarter was three-tenth of a point higher than the prior year.
We're continuing to experience some benefit from favorable product input costs which we believe will help gross margin in 2015.
From a pricing perspective the substantial weakening of the yen euro and pound would normally result in our taking price increases in those regions to fully offset the negative impacts.
However in light of the magnitude of those currency swings and considering local conditions we are taking only measured price increases in this first quarter.
As a result we expect a modest increase in gross margin in 2015.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 6% in the full year partly due to a combination of higher labor and other store related cost as well as a substantial increase as expected in marketing spending.
In fact for the full year we increased marketing spending to 6.7% of net sales from 6.3% in 2013.
SG&amp;A expenses rose only 1% in the fourth quarter as higher marketing spending was mostly offset by the translation effect of the strong U.S.
dollar.
I think most of you know that about 80% of our SG&amp;A expenses are fixed in nature.
And we have said that we require a mid-single-digit comp store sales increase to gain leverage on those costs.
Therefore our sales growth in 2014 was not sufficient to achieve the leverage on those costs.
Based on our current sales outlook we expect SG&amp;A expenses will increase at a greater rate than sales growth in 2015.
This expected increase in the expense ratio partially reflects our store expansion and marketing plans but also reflects a meaningful increase of approximately $30 million of non-cash expense resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions principally reflecting lower interest rates for our U.S.
pension and post retiring benefit plans.
In fact that $30 million increase alone restrains EPS growth in 2015 by $0.15 per diluted share.
Operating earnings on a non-GAAP basis declined 3% in the fourth quarter and rose 12% in the full year when excluding the arbitration charge in 2013 as well as a smaller expense in that year related to staffing and occupancy reductions.
The operating margin rose to 21% in the full year 2014 versus an adjusted 19.7% in 2013 and a margin of 18.4% in 2012.
Our expectation calls for operating earnings in 2015 to be about equal to the prior year.
As you probably know we have redeemed $400 million of long-term debt in the third quarter and issued $550 million of debt.
This was a significant step in lowering our interest cost and extending maturities.
The net effect of these debt transactions was a $15 million reduction in interest expense or $3 million to $4 million per quarter which we began to experience in the fourth quarter and is incorporated in our full year projection of approximately $50 million of interest and other expense in 2015.
The effective tax rate was 32.9% in the fourth quarter and 34.4% in the full year.
The effective tax rates in 2013 were 36.1% in the fourth quarter and 34.8% in the full year when excluding the charge for the inverse arbitration ruling.
We expect the effective tax rate in 2015 to be about equivalent to the rate in 2014.
So adding it all up net earnings were $196 million in the fourth quarter and were 3% higher than net earnings of $190 million in last year's fourth quarter excluding the arbitration related charge.
For the full year net earnings were $484 million or $3.73 per share compared with $181 million or $1.41 per diluted share in the prior year.
However excluding those charges in both years net earnings rose 13% to $545 million or $4.20 per share up from $481 million or $3.73 per share in 2013.
Our balance sheet was strong at January 31 2015.
Net inventories rose 2% in 2014 to finish the year at $2.4 billion.
The overall increase supported new stores product introductions and expanded offerings and we were pleased with the level of inventory availability in our stores.
The 2% increase included a 4% increase in finished goods and a 2% decrease in combined raw materials and work in process inventories.
Inventories would have grown 6% and still below to the rate of sales growth excluding the effect of foreign currency translation.
In addition I believe you all understand that the year-end inventory level was impacted by the unanticipated sales softness in the fourth quarter.
So whether measured in dollars or on a constant exchange rate basis both the 2% and 6% increases respectively met our long-term objective to keep growth and inventories below sales growth.
Our 2015 plan calls for minimal inventory growth in dollars in the full year.
Accounts receivable rose 3% in 2014 to $195 million in line with sales growth.
Receivables are turning at 21 times per year.
Capital expenditures were $247 million in 2014.
That was an increase from $221 million in 2013 due to increased spending on systems and internal manufacturing capacity.
CapEx was 6% of worldwide net sales versus 5% in the prior year.
Approximately half of our capital spending goes towards store openings renovations and relocations.
We are forecasting CapEx around $260 million for 2015.
We spent $5 million in the fourth quarter to repurchase 53 000 shares.
In the full year we spent $27 million and bought 301 000 shares at an average cost just under $90 per share.
At year end we had $273 million available for future repurchases under the current authorization that runs through March of 2017.
We believe that share repurchases and dividend growth are appropriate long-term measures to return excess cash to shareholders.
Putting it all together we generated free cash flow of $368 million which included the effect of $61 million after-tax debt extinguishment charge and expect to generate free cash flow exceeding $400 million in 2015.
We finished 2014 with a solid balance sheet and liquidity.
Total short term and long-term debt was $1.1 billion with 39% of six stockholders equity versus $1 billion and 37% a year ago.
Tiffany’s return on assets and stockholders equity were 10% and 17% respectively in 2014 and clearly meeting our long-term objectives for at least 10% ROA and a 15% ROE.
Turning to our financial forecasts for 2015 I've already highlighted our assumptions for the operating margin interest and other expenses and the effective tax rate.
In terms of our sales forecast we believe that taking a cautious view in certain markets is appropriate in light of what we saw in the fourth quarter specifically the strength of the U.S.
dollar as well as challenging conditions in certain markets.
In total we are planning a mid single digit percent increase in worldwide net sales in local currencies which would translate into low single digit increase in dollars for the full year.
While we don’t typically talk about quarterly forecasts we think you should be aware that we have a very difficult comparison in Japan to a 30% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
And we have also continued to experience softness in the Americas both of which will contribute to a forecasted 10% sales decline in the first quarter on a reported basis in U.S.
dollars.
Combined with our assumptions for operating margin interest expense and the effective tax rate we are forecasting minimal growth in the full year EPS over the $4.20 per share excluding charges that Tiffany earned in 2014.
This was not indicative in any way of Tiffany's long-term earnings power but it is a reflection of the various near-in macro challenges currently affecting us.
As I mentioned the expected minimal EPS growth in 2015 incorporates the non-cash increase in employee benefit related expenses costing $0.15 per share or about 4% of earnings growth and of course it’s safe to add that the strong U.S.
dollar is costing us a few percentage points of earnings growth.
So without those two factors we would have been looking at high single digit increase in EPS.
The change between our original preliminary 2015 guidance that we provided in January calling for low to mid single digit increase in net earnings for the year and our current forecast of minimal earnings growth in 2015 is essentially the result of the added non-cash pension expense and the further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar since then.
I would now like to highlight the phasing of our expected sales and earnings in 2015 which will be affected by the strong U.S.
dollar Japan's volatility in 2014 and the timing of marketing spending.
From a quarterly perspective based on the top line challenges in this first quarter we expect that first quarter EPS could be 30% lower than the $0.97 we’ve earned last year which had represented a 49% increase over the prior year.
We expect that the second quarter will also show a net earnings decline but at a more modest rate pressured by the continuation of the strong dollar and substantial marketing spending tied to the watch launch.
And then we expect net earnings to grow by double-digit percentages in both the third and fourth quarters.
So just to make it clear our sales and earnings plan assume progressively improving performance as we move through the year.
In conclusion I joined Tiffany just about a year ago since then we’ve been focusing on a number of fronts including but not limited to effectively allocating resources for growth driving improvements in cost and inventory management and doing all of this in a tax efficient manner.
I’m very excited about our opportunities to grow Tiffany's business in increasingly profitable and productive way.
I presume you all are aware that Tiffany's Chief Executive Officer Mike Kowalski will be retiring from Tiffany on March 31 and remain as non-Executive Chairman of the Board.
On April 1 Frederic Cumenal currently Tiffany's President will become CEO.
I am now very pleased to turn the call over to Frederic.
Thanks Ralph.
Thanks Ralph and Mark and good morning everyone.
I'm glad to have this opportunity to briefly share with you my thoughts about Tiffany's business and our exciting plan.
First I believe we achieved good financial results in 2014 but certainly finished the year on a disappointing note primary in the Americas.
While we know about the unavoidable challenges rising from the strong US dollar we can and we’ll be nimble in fine-tuning product developments and marketing communications.
Most important we have a clear roadmap for the future focused on the store experience products marketing logistics and margin improvement.
I’m pleased with the progress that our company made in 2014 in these areas that I believe will drive our longer term success.
That strategic direction focuses on continued elevation as a global luxury brand.
In our stores we are striving to better engage customers through a more consultative approach and with enhanced visual merchandising presentation.
Over the next couple of years we would strengthen our abilities when we finish developing a global CRM system and are able to better analyze our customer base and shopping partners.
We opened some major stores in key markets in 2014 and I'm particularly speaking of the new ones in Paris and Moscow.
Our strategy includes further investing in our distribution base with new stores likely at the rate of 10 to 15 stores per year when we find the right opportunities but also enhancing the impressions we create with customers through renovations relocations and even some select clothing's.
In 2014 we increased our focus on the stylish female sales purchase customer when we introduced the dramatic and innovative Tiffany T collection following the successfully debut in 2013 of our reinterpreted Atlas collection.
Our strategy includes launching additional collections in the coming years.
But our design group will also be refreshing our product assortments with important new interpretations of our iconic collections.
In April we will proudly introduce to the world CT-60 a major new collection of watches as the first step in a long-term investment to be a meaningful watch business.
To enhance our growth potential last year our talented marketing team further developed impactful messages of customer relevance.
Operationally we've continued to expand our capabilities in manufacturing and sourcing while focused on maximizing the efficiencies of that supply chain which should enable us to further improve our gross margins in the coming years.
From an IT perspective we're continuing to invest in new systems to support our long-term objectives.
So we enter 2015 with many plans but also with the cautious short-term view regarding the external challenges and uncertainties affecting our business.
We believe that planning for modest sales growth and minimal earning growth is both prudent and justifiable.
However we remain constantly focused on that strategic roadmap I referred you by investing in various facets of our business to achieve healthy results over the long term.
We have made key additions to our management team in the past couple of years both in New York and in our regions which reinforces my confidence and our ability to achieve our long term goal.
Tiffany has accumulated an amazing heritage since its funding 178 years ago.
Our roots are here in New York and now we have the opportunity to be relevant and prosper in a world where growing number of affluent customers are seeking finally crafted products and extraordinary experiences.
That concludes my comments.
I appreciate your interest in Tiffany and we will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thank you Frederick and Ralph.
We hope our remarks on this call have enhanced your understanding of our financial results plans for the coming year and longer term direction.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 8682508.
Of course please always feel free to call me should you have any questions and please note on your calendars that we plan to report our first quarter results on May 27 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
Please standby.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company First Quarter Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good day and greetings from our New York headquarters.
Earlier today we reported Tiffany's first quarter results and I hope by now you’ve had chance to review the news release.
On today's call Ralph and I will comment on those results and how they are linked to our growth strategies and then wrap up the call with a few comments on the outlook for the rest of the year.
Before continuing please note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Okay.
Starting with the first quarter overview while results were admittedly far from robust they did exceed our expectations and we were pleased with continued progress in executing our key store product and marketing-related initiatives.
Net worldwide sales declined 5% in the first quarter which was better than the 10% decline we had expected due to strong performance in Europe and a smaller than anticipated year-over-year decline in Japan.
On a constant exchange rate basis excluding the translation effect of the strong U.S.
dollar worldwide net sales increased 1%.
Going from a 5% sales decline as reported to a 1% sales increase on a constant exchange rate basis shows just how much of a headwind we are feeling from the strong U.S.
dollar in translation alone.
We expect that to continue to one degree or another for the remainder of the year.
Regional total sales performance again on a constant exchange rate basis ranged from a 21% increase in Europe benefiting from strong foreign tourist and local customers spending there to an 18% decline in Japan after a surge in spending there in last year's first quarter.
In addition we continued to experience solid growth in fashion jewelry sales highlighted by the Tiffany T collection.
We enjoyed growth in statement jewelry sales and we began the rollout of our new CT60 watch collection.
The operating margin decline but the higher gross margin was more than offset by higher fixed SG&amp;A expenses specifically higher marketing spending in support of our bridal category and the introduction of our new watches.
In total the better than expected sales performance resulted in net earnings declining 17% to $0.81 per diluted share which again was better than our guidance that had call for an approximate 30% decline.
Let’s now look at regional sales performance.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis total sales increased 3% and comp store sales rose 1% on top of an 8% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
This minimal sales growth in the Americas reflected an increase in domestic spending which was mostly offset by lower foreign tourist spending in the U.S.
especially in New York which we attribute to the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
Elsewhere in the Americas we achieved healthy sales growth in Canada and Latin America on a constant exchange rate basis.
In dollars the 1% increase in total Americas sales resulted from favorable average price and mix being largely offset by lower jewelry unit volume tied to weakness at entry-level silver jewelry price points.
We opened one store in the Americas during the quarter in the new Miami design district.
We now operate 123 stores in the region with additional openings planned this year including Tiffany's first store in Chile in Santiago this summer as well as another store in Canada in Ottawa.
Performance in the Asia-Pacific region was mixed in the quarter.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales increased 4% and comp store sales increased 2% compared with a 10% comp increase in last year's first quarter.
We continue to see strong sales growth in China as well as in Australia and Singapore but we continued to experience softness in Hong Kong and Macau as we believe some Chinese tourists have been traveling to and shopping in other regions.
Measured in U.S.
dollars Asia-Pacific sales declined 1% in the quarter.
We experienced higher average price and mix which was outweighed by a decline in jewelry units sold in the region reflecting the meaningful sales weaknesses in Hong Kong and in entry-level silver jewelry.
During the first quarter we opened two stores in China in Hangzhou and in Shanghai and finished the quarter operating 75 Tiffany stores in the Asia-Pacific region.
So far in the second quarter we've opened a store in [Hangzhou] [ph] China and just today we opened in the newly expanded Galaxy Macau.
We have additional openings planned for the rest of the year including our first store in Thailand in Bangkok.
Now let's turn to Japan where the focus in the quarter was frankly all about getting past a very difficult year-over-year comparison.
In last year's first quarter we achieved 30% comp store sales growth in yen when customer demand surged in anticipation of a consumption tax increase on April 1st.
Though it was not surprising to us that comp store sales in this year's first quarter declined 24% in yen.
We now face easier year-over-year comparisons in Japan for the rest of the year.
That 24% comp decline in yen in the quarter or 18% on a total sales basis was due to a substantial decline in jewelry units sold.
The yen was 12% weaker on average than in the first quarter of last year.
So when translated into dollars total sales in Japan declined 30% in the first quarter.
We believe such a substantial weakening of the yen has affected spending by Japanese tourists when they travel but might be supporting some local spending in Japan.
In addition we're benefiting in Japan from increasing spending by foreign tourists especially from China.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 56 company-operated locations.
All-in-all our business in Japan has experienced substantial volatility over the past year.
And we definitely look forward to some stabilization going forward.
In Europe strong foreign tourist spending as well as higher local customer demand drove a substantial 21% increase in total sales on a constant exchange rate basis with double-digit growth across most of continental Europe.
Comp stores sales on the constant exchange rate basis rose 17% compared with a 3% comp decline in last year's first quarter.
The euro and the pound have weakened considerably against the U.S.
dollar over the past year.
And when translated into U.S.
dollars total sales in Europe rose 2% in the quarter reflecting favorable price and mix with total unit volume unchanged from last year but varying by category.
Those weaker currencies have certainly made it increasingly attractive at the moment for foreign tourist to shop in Europe and Tiffany is benefiting from it.
It was almost a year ago when we opened a major store in Paris on the Champs Élysées which is serving considerable numbers of foreign tourists and local customers too.
We see significant long-term opportunities to further expand our company-operated store base in made for European markets.
As examples last week we opened our first store in Geneva.
The 550 square meter two-level store is located on the Rue du Rhone marking our third store in Switzerland and 39th store in Europe.
And later this year we plan to open on the fashionable Via Condotti in Rome representing Tiffany’s third store in that important city.
Lastly sales in our other segment which is a small component of our overall sales rose 1% in the quarter on a constant exchange rate basis with flat comps and declined 6% in dollars.
This segment includes retail store sales in the United Arab Emirates and Russia as well as wholesale diamond sales and some third-party licensing revenues.
From a store expansion perspective we remain on track to increase our company-operated stores by a net of approximately 12 to 15 stores this year.
More than half of the openings are planned in Asia-Pacific with the balance in the Americas and Europe.
This represents a 4% to 5% net increase in our company-operated store base and in worldwide square footage.
Beyond opening new stores however we are also pursuing a strategy to enhance the existing store base through renovations as well as by relocating some stores to more favorable locations.
In fact we are scheduled for approximately 10 relocations this year and we're always focused on adding interesting and relevant content to our website that can also help to drive store traffic.
We intend to be active in all of these areas in 2015 supporting our broader strategy to elevate the in-store and online experience and ultimately better engage and strengthen relationships with existing and new customers.
In terms of noteworthy highlights within our product categories and collections fashion jewelry was a strong performer in the quarter.
The strength in fashion continued to be led by gold jewelry designs.
A significant contributor to fashion jewelry sales is the TIFFANY T collection that we launched last fall.
The collection continues to be well received by customers globally and is an important part of our strategy to expand our reach among style seeking self purchasers.
And as we mentioned on our last call TIFFANY T has been posting our highest ever transaction size for a new fashion collection.
Also in fashion jewelry our T’s collection continues to perform quite well especially benefiting from its expanded assortment.
However we continue to experience weakness in silver jewelry sales before $500.
We are focused on addressing this issue over the balance of the year through product development and advertising targeted at what we call our little luxuries.
Sales in the engagement jewelry and wedding bands category were soft year-over-year with Japan accounting for most of the sales decline tied to the surge in spending in last year’s first quarter.
So going forward we hope to see better performance in that category and we continue to be pleased with sales in the harmony collection and its recently expanded assortment.
Spanning the engagement and the statement fine and solitaire jewelry categories is our beautiful Soleste collection which performed well in the quarter.
In addition we are planning to introduce some compelling additions to existing fine jewelry collections later this year to address softness in the fine jewelry category.
In contrast to that softness in fine jewelry performance we’re very pleased with strong growth in statement jewelry sales in the quarter.
In April we hosted our Annual Blue Book event in New York with select customers in fashion media attending from around the world to see our new couture collection of magnificent jewelry with the theme The Art of the Sea.
It was a truly memorable and successful event.
Rounding out the product review in April we launched our CT60 collection of watches inspired by designs in Tiffany’s archives.
This brilliant collection is now being rolled out globally to Tiffany stores and consistent with our strategy we are supporting the launch with extensive marketing to strengthen credibility and success in that category.
While it’s way too early to talk about results we can say that initial reaction from customers and the media has been very good.
In summary we remain keenly focused on our key strategies surrounding stores customer engagement products and marketing.
I will now turn the call over to Ralph to continue the financial and strategic review.
Thank you Mark for the sales review.
First I would like to point out a few overall highlights of the quarter.
The strong U.S.
dollar was a significant headwind on the translation of results transacted outside the U.S.
having a 6% negative effect on worldwide sales as well as impacting foreign tourist spending in the U.S.
Gross margin continued to improve as expected.
We brought into our marketing focus beyond the Tiffany T collection with new engagement and watch campaigns.
Our sales results contributed to a smaller than expected decline in net earnings.
However as it is early in the year and in light of continuing macro challenges and our assumptions about the direction of currency movements we think it is prudent to maintain and not increase our earnings outlook for the year.
Let’s now take a look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 59.1% in the quarter was nine-tenths of a point higher than last year reflecting many factors.
We continue to benefit to some degree from lower product input costs while also taking some single-digit price increases globally in the first quarter that partly offset the effect of the weaker foreign currencies.
Part of the gross margin increase also came from the absence of a one-time charge that we incurred in last year’s first quarter for the closing of a diamond polishing facility.
In addition the favorable effect from higher margin fashion jewelry sales was offset by solid growth in much lower margin statement jewelry sales as well as the sales decline in Japan which had a negative effect on gross margin.
We continue to expect a modest increase in gross margin in 2015 as those favorable product input costs diminished over the remainder of the year.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose 5% in the quarter largely due as expected to marketing spending partly tied to our new Will You? engagement campaign and the launch of the CT60 watch collection.
In addition incremental U.S.
pension and postretirement benefit cost affected the SG&amp;A expense increase.
We continue to expect that SG&amp;A expenses will grow at a rate exceeding sales growth for the full year reflecting the items that I just mentioned.
The increased expense for our U.S.
pension and postretirement benefit plans will total approximately $30 million for the full year.
However we do expect some improvement in the ratio of SG&amp;A expenses to sales in the second half of the year.
Our forecast continues to reflect operating earnings for the full year approximately equal to the prior year.
Interest and other expenses net declined in the quarter as expected from our debt refinancing in 2014.
In addition to a lesser extent we benefited from some year-over-year changes in foreign currency transaction gains.
We continue to assume interest and other expenses net at approximately $50 million in 2015.
The effective tax rate of 34.7% in the first quarter was slightly lower than the 35.1% rate in the first quarter of last year.
We also continue to base our earnings forecast on an effective tax rate in 2015 virtually unchanged from last year’s 34.4%.
In total we were projecting net earnings to decline 30% in the first quarter due to the pressures from the strong dollar the difficult comparison in Japan and softness in the U.S.
However the smaller sales decline led to a smaller-than-expected 17% decline in net earnings.
Although let’s keep in mind that the first quarter is the smallest quarter of the year.
We’re also pleased with the strength of Tiffany’s balance sheet which is consistent with our financial strategy.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $715 million at April 30th.
Short and long-term debt totaled almost $1.1 billion or 37% of stockholders equity versus 35% a year ago.
We have more than adequate resources to support the growth of our business and to provide for potential opportunities to return some excess cash to shareholders.
Net inventories of $2.4 billion at April 30th were 2% lower than a year ago.
That overall decrease included a small increase in finished goods that was more than offset by a decline in combined raw material and work-in-process inventories.
On a constant exchange basis inventories would have increased 2% due to new stores and product introductions.
Our strategy for this year and over the long-term is to keep inventory growth below the rate of sales growth through better productivity in our stores as well as in our overall supply chain.
Accounts receivable of $192 million at April 30th was virtually unchanged from a year ago with receivable turnover staying at 21 times per year.
Capital expenditures were $37 million in the first quarter versus $35 million a year ago.
Our forecast continues to be based on CapEx at about $260 million for 2015 with considerable spending devoted to stores and for new IT systems such as Global CRM and inventory management among others.
In terms of share repurchases we spent $33 million in the first quarter to buy approximately 380 000 shares.
At April 30th we had approximately $240 million available for future repurchases under the current authorization that runs through March of 2017.
On a trailing basis at April 30th Tiffany's return on assets was 9% and the return on stockholders equity was 16% both of which are close to our long-term objectives to achieve a minimum of 10% ROA and a 15% ROE.
Before including my remarks I want to comment on our full-year financial forecast.
As I noted at the beginning of my remarks we were pleased that the sales and earnings came in somewhat better than our expectations for the first quarter but because it's still early in the year we believe we should maintain our existing forecast in light of the strong dollar and lingering macro and market conditions and uncertainties.
Our full year assumption of mid single-digit percentage worldwide sales increased on a constant exchange basis assumes varying degrees of growth across all regions.
However we expect continued pressures from the strong dollar that may possibly only begin to abate much later in the year if at all resulting in a low single-digit full year worldwide sales increase when translated into dollars.
Our unchanged forecast of minimal earnings growth versus the $4.20 per share we earned last year on a non-GAAP basis continues to incorporate an expected earnings decline in the second quarter at a more moderate rate than in the first quarter as well as our assumptions of minimal sales growth but higher growth in SG&amp;A expense again tied to marketing spending.
We then continue to expect double-digit earnings growth in the second half of the year.
So it’s a plan built on progressively improving sales and earnings performance as we move through the year.
And as we said on our last conference call that minimal expected growth in earnings for the year will be more like a high single-digit increase if we excluded the estimated negative translation effect of the strong U.S.
dollar and the cost from the incremental $30 million of pension expense.
In conclusion we believe that Tiffany is increasingly well-positioned as one of the world's most important luxury brands and has the potential to be more productive and profitable over the long-term.
We have the growth opportunities very sound strategies a talent management -- talented management team and we’re investing in important systems and capabilities and have financial resources to pursue those strategies.
We believe we’ve had a decent start to the year all things considered and appreciate your interest in Tiffany.
I’ll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope all of you now have a fuller understanding of our financial results and our plans.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
or (719) 457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 3506887.
Of course you should feel free to call me with any questions.
And note on your calendars that we expect to report second quarter results on August 27th before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Second Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good day everyone.
We reported Tiffany's second quarter results earlier today.
So hopefully you've read the news release.
I am coming to you this morning from New York while that’s evening in Shanghai where Ralph is joining us on this call.
On today's call we will review the quarterly results and how they relate to our growth strategies and then comment on the outlook for the rest of the year.
Before continuing please note that statements made on this call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
So from an overall perspective second quarter financial results from the top line to the bottom line continued to be significantly pressured by the strong U.S.
dollar and worldwide net sales as reported were flat to last year.
However excluding the substantial negative translation effect from that strong dollar second quarter worldwide sales rose 7% ranging from an increase of 27% in Japan to 19% in Europe to 9% in Asia-Pacific to the Americas were sales were unchanged from the prior year.
And lastly to other sales which declined 27% all of which I'll explain in a moment.
The strong dollar has also had meaningful and diverging effects on foreign tourists spending by region.
We added six new stores in the quarter and expanded our product assortment with new jewelry and watch designs.
Gross margin was unchanged in the quarter and the SG&amp;A expense ratio rose.
We also recorded an impairment charge of approximately $10 million or $0.05 per diluted share for a portion of a loan we made to a diamond mining company.
As a result net earnings declined 16% in the quarter but excluding the impairment charge net earnings declined 10% on a non-GAAP basis which was inline with our expectation.
Let's now look at sales performance by region in the second quarter.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis both total and comparable store sales were equal to last year which compared with an 8% comp increase in last year's second quarter.
And looking forward we are facing another tough comparison to an 11% comp increase in last year's third quarter.
In this second quarter once again higher domestic spending in the Americas largely tied to strengthen statement jewelry sales was offset by lower foreign tourists spending in the U.S.
especially in New York and Hawaii which we attribute primarily to the effect from the strong U.S.
dollar.
But generally speaking our sales results in the Americas in the second quarter and first half apart from the strength at the highest statement jewelry price points have reflected varying degrees of softness across much of the U.S.
Conversely comp store sales in Canada and Latin America have been strong.
In dollars total sales in the Americas declined 2% as favorable price and mix was offset by lower jewelry unit volume largely tied to continued weakness at entry-level silver jewelry price points as well as the unit decline in fine jewelry.
We opened one store in the Americas during the quarter in Rideau Centre in Ottawa replacing an older store that we had closed last year.
And we are looking forward to opening Tiffany's first store in Chile in Santiago next month.
Also we recently relocated one of our shops in Montréal from Holt Renfrew to the nearby Ogilvy department store.
We will soon be relocating our store in Denver's Cherry Creek Mall to an enhanced location within the mall.
We are in the process of doing a similar relocation of our Century City store in L.A.
and we are relocating a department store location in Mexico.
All of which exemplify our strategy to optimize the quality of our distribution base.
Moving to the Asia-Pacific region sales on a constant exchange rate basis rose 9% in total led by fashion gold jewelry and statement jewelry sales while comp store sales increased 6% on top of the 7% increase in last year's second quarter.
As we saw in the first quarter performance in the region was once again mixed and led by double-digit sales growth in China and Australia as well as varying degrees of growth in most other markets.
However our stores in Hong Kong and Macau continue to experience weakness that began in the second half of last year as we believe a number of Chinese tourists have shifted their traveling and shopping to other markets at least for the moment.
In addition while our sales rose in Korea in the quarter we believe the rate of growth was constrained by foreign tourists who avoided traveling to Korea during the MERS outbreak.
It is possible that an improvement in sales growth maybe gradual as foreign tourists bookings take some time to improve.
With regard to recent news from China in the same way that it's not possible to quantify the positive wealth effect from a rising stock market on our sales growth there in the past couple of years.
It’s similarly difficult to predict any potential negative effect on sales in magnitude or duration from their recent stock market correction or currency devaluation.
But most important Tiffany remains focused on the long-term growth opportunity to serve Chinese consumers both locally and globally and we have not in any way altered our strategies.
When measured in U.S.
dollars the total Asia-Pacific sales increased 4% due to favorable price and mix.
We expanded Tiffany's presence by adding four new stores in the Asia-Pacific region during the second quarter including our first Company-operated store in Thailand in the Emporium Shopping Complex in Bangkok.
Our 29<sup>th</sup> and 30<sup>th</sup> stores in China in Hangzhou and in Chengdu and our third store in Macau in the newly expanded Galaxy.
We are planning five additional store openings across the region in the second half of the year as well as three closings all consistent with our global store strategy.
Now let's look at Japan and its local currency sales performance.
We think one can only really evaluate our results this year in Japan by reflecting on the dramatic sales volatility we experienced last year when comp store sales had increased 30% in yen in the first quarter due to a pull forward of customer demand and anticipation of the consumption tax increase on April 1 followed by a 13% comp decline in last year's second quarter.
So we clearly had an easier comparison in this second quarter but nonetheless we were very pleased with the 21% comp increase that we achieved in the second quarter and year-over-year comparisons in Japan are frankly also relatively easy for the balance of the year.
The 27% total sales growth in the yen in the quarter was due in similar degrees to both unit volume increases across all jewelry categories as well as favorable price and mix.
In addition while our sales in Japan are largely made to Japanese customers the year-over-year sales growth has been due to increase sales to foreign tourists particularly Chinese visitors which are perhaps tied to some degree to the attractiveness arising from the weaker yen.
And due to the substantially weaker yen versus last year that 27% total sales growth in yen in the second quarter was reduced to 5% when translated into U.S.
dollars.
To repeat something we said on our last call we believe the weaker yen has affected spending by Japanese tourists when they travel but conversely might be generating local sales demand in Japan.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 56 Company-operated locations but we are enhancing our store base by relocating two department store base locations this year.
In terms of our business in Europe we were certainly pleased with the continuation of very strong local currency sales growth in the second quarter.
On a constant exchange rate basis both total and comparable store sales rose 19% compared with an 8% comp decline in last year's second quarter when we were seeing broad-based softness across Europe at that time.
However sales growth in this second quarter was geographically broad-based across continental Europe and in the UK reflecting strong sales growth to foreign tourists as well as to a lesser extent an increase to local customers.
Engagement jewelry was the strongest category in Europe in the quarter.
To perhaps state the obvious the euro and pound have weakened against the dollar in the past year.
This has attracted foreign tourists to shop in Europe while potentially discouraging some Europeans from shopping abroad and instead encouraging them to spend locally.
Our performance in Europe reflects both phenomena.
When translated into U.S.
dollars total second quarter sales in Europe increased 2% due to favorable price and mix.
During the second quarter we opened 550 square meter two-level store on the fashionable Rue du Rhône in Geneva.
We also recently relocated our store within Selfridges in London to a more prominent location within that store and are relocating our store within Harrods to a new location within that store.
We now operate 39 stores in Europe and believe there are considerable long-term opportunities to further develop our company operated European store base.
Rounding out the segment review are other sales which represented only 2% of worldwide sales in the quarter and includes retail store sales in the United Arab Emirates and Russia as well as wholesale diamond sales and some third-party licensing revenue.
Other sales on a constant exchange rate basis declined 27% total in the second quarter largely due to lower wholesale sales of diamonds.
On the other hand comp store sales were up 8%.
Earlier this year we were pleased to relocate our store in the Mall of the Emirates in Dubai taking advantage of the opportunity to update to our current store design and to expand the size of the store.
We mentioned in the regional commentaries that store openings are complemented by store renovations relocations and several closings this year.
Totaling up this activity both completed and planned we are on track to increase our Company-operated worldwide store base by a net of 12 stores this year representing a 4% net increase in both our Company-operated store base and in worldwide square footage.
At the same time our strategy is to enhance our website with compelling content that builds brand and product awareness and drive store traffic.
All of these initiatives support our broader global strategy to more effectively engage customers and enhance their experience and relationship with Tiffany.
In terms of a few merchandising highlights as measured in dollars the strongest performer in the quarter was the fashion jewelry category with a continued shift toward gold jewelry.
Our statement fine and solitaire category was mixed with substantial growth and high-end statement jewelry but some softness in fine jewelry.
And there was a bit of softness in the engagement jewelry category as well.
Product innovation is an important strategy at Tiffany which consists of introducing entirely new design collections but also periodically expanding refreshing and reinterpreting existing collections.
An excellent example of newness and a strong contributor to growth in fashion jewelry sales is the Tiffany T collection that we launched about a year ago.
The collection continues to successfully attract style seeking customers as well as those purchasing gifts and is one of the reasons we've seen strength in gold jewelry sales.
Another successful collection worth mentioning is our diamond focused Soleste collection which spans engagement and fine jewelry.
When we speak about expanding existing collections with new designs one example is our popular Return to Tiffany collection with a particular focus on pieces and silver.
In addition our fall ad campaign will also feature new interpretations of other iconic jewelry collections including Victoria and Tiffany Bow in fine jewelry and the Infinity fashion jewelry collection in gold and silver.
So there will be a wide range of newness in our assortment this fall with freshness intended to improve overall sales growth and to also reinvigorate the silver jewelry category.
Lastly we recently completed the months long global rollout of CT60 collection of watches as previously discussed we are supporting the watch category with extensive marketing to strengthen product awareness and brand credibility and heritage.
And we’re pleased with initial reactions from customers and the media.
So that covers the sales highlights.
I am now pleased to turn the call over to Ralph.
Thank you Mark and hello everyone.
I'm in China this week visiting many of our locations to stay close to the numerous growth opportunities for us to pursue here.
Now I will get right into our second quarter results in a few key takeaways.
The strong U.S.
dollar continued to be a significant headwind on the translation of our results transacted outside the United States having a 7% negative effect on worldwide sales.
It also continued to have a significant negative effect on tourist spending in the U.S.
a decline in the operating margin reflected a lack of SG&amp;A expense leverage higher marketing spending and an impairment charge tied to a loan to a diamond mining company.
Net earnings declined 16% as reported but excluding the impairment charge net earnings declined 10% on a non-GAAP basis which was a smaller rate of decline than in the first quarter and in line with our expectation.
But in light of the strong U.S.
dollar and macro uncertainties we modestly tempered our full-year expectations for net earnings and to be sure it's not overlooked we are pleased with inventory performance and cash flow year-to-date.
Let’s briefly review the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 59.9% in the second quarter was unchanged from the prior year due to the favorable effects of product input costs and lower wholesale sales of diamonds which typically earn minimal if any margin but also the negative effect from shifts in product mix especially contrasting the relatively low gross margins of high price point statement jewelry sales which were strong with relatively high gross margins of silver jewelry sales which were weak.
In addition previous price increases taken have been offset by the unfavorable effect of the strengthening U.S.
dollar.
We are now in the process of further raising prices in regions that have experienced the most dramatic weakness in their currencies versus the dollar while also taking some modest increases in other regions.
For the full-year we continue to expect a modest increase in gross margin.
On a related note I should add that the more recent declines we’ve seen in precious metals spot prices this year should eventually result in some benefit to gross margin but it will take some time based on the rate of inventory turnover.
Similarly you may have seen recent industry reports that softening global demand has resulted in a retreat in diamond costs albeit less pronounced for high-quality stones.
While this has some favorable effect on our acquisition cost now again there is a long lead time before we will see any benefit in gross margin.
Selling general and administrative expenses increased 9% in the quarter and would have increased 6% excluding a roughly $10 million impairment charge for a portion of a loan to a diamond mining company.
In both of those year-over-year comparisons SG&amp;A growth was reduced by 5% due to the translation effect of the strong dollar.
Similar to the first quarter the SG&amp;A increase reflected higher marketing spending as expected partially tied to a bridal campaign and the launch of our watch collection.
We also recorded a portion of the $30 million of annual incremental U.S.
pension and postretirement benefit costs.
There were also increases in labor and store related occupancy costs as well but we expect the SG&amp;A expense ratio to increase in the full-year due to the lack of sales leverage we do expect some improvement in the ratio in the fourth quarter.
In regard to the impairment charge for many years we have occasionally entered into financing arrangements with diamond mining companies as part of a strategy to secure high-quality diamond supply based on recent developments associated with the contractual terms of our agreement with the Koidu mine in Sierra Leone.
We determined that it is probable that a portion of that loan will not be collectible in accordance with the contract terms.
Therefore we recorded the charge and as you could see in today's 10-Q filing the situation is still evolving.
In total our forecast which excludes the impairment charge in any potential future similar charges now calls for operating earnings for the full-year to be modestly below last year.
Interest and other expenses net in the quarter was below last year from our refinancing of long-term debt to lower rates in the third quarter of 2014.
In addition the year-over-year delta also included modest foreign currency transaction losses in the second quarter after we benefited from some gains in the first quarter.
We continue to project interest and other expense net at approximately $50 million in 2015.
The second quarter's effective tax rate was less than last year’s second quarter as we expected.
Last year's rate was somewhat inflated by changes in tax legislation while this year's rate benefited from a reduction in a tax valuation allowance.
We continue to forecast an effective tax rate in 2015 similar to last year's rate of 34.4%.
Tiffany's balance sheet remains strong at the end of the quarter.
Total cash and short-term investments were $771 million at January 31.
Short-term and long-term debt totaled just over $1 billion representing 37% of stockholders equity.
As we have stated in the past our financial strategy is to maintain more than adequate resources to support the growth of our business regardless of short-term economic cyclicality.
At the same time we also regularly consider appropriate opportunities to return excess cash to shareholders through dividend growth and share repurchases.
As examples we recently increased our quarterly dividend by 5% which represented the 14 dividend increase in the past 13 years and we spent approximately $56 million in the first half of the year to repurchase our shares at an average cost of $88 per share.
At July 31 we had approximately $217 million available for repurchases under the current authorization that runs through March of 2017.
Our strategy for inventories is to always maintain deep assortments and high availability in our stores but our goal for this year and beyond is to also keep inventory growth below the rate of sales growth by achieving better productivity in our stores as well as in our overall supply chain.
At July 31 net inventories were 7% lower than a year ago.
When excluding the effect of translation of the strong U.S.
dollar inventory still declined by 2% compared with the first half 4% increase in worldwide sales on a constant exchange basis.
Capital expenditures of $98 million in the first half were up slightly from $91 million a year ago.
Our forecast continues to call for spending about $260 million this year with an emphasis on stores and also new IT systems being implemented over several years such as for global customer relationship management and inventory management.
Lastly we think it's prudent to revise modestly downward our full-year net earnings forecast in light of the dollar being even stronger than we initially anticipated as well as ongoing external volatilities.
We had previously forecast minimum earnings growth on top of the $4.20 per share excluding a debt extinguishment charge last year.
Now we are forecasting net earnings 2% to 5% below last year when excluding the loan impairment charge taken in the second quarter and any further similar charges that could potentially be recorded later in the year.
In addition this assumes no net earnings growth in the third quarter versus EPS of $0.76 per share in last year's third quarter which excluded the debt extinguishment charge and then we expect the resumption of earnings growth in the fourth quarter.
In conclusion we met our overall expectations in the first half of the year despite the significant adverse effects from the strong dollar.
Looking forward we are pursuing numerous initiatives tied to further expanding and enhancing our global store base product development and effective marketing communications in order to strengthen Tiffany's relationship with its customers.
So we intend to stay focused on global growth opportunities ahead of us.
I will now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph for dialing in from Shanghai.
We hope all of you on the call now have a better understanding of the second quarter results and our strategies.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 2738523.
Please call me with any questions and note on your calendars that we expect to report third quarter results on November 24 before the market opens.
Thanks for listening.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company’s Third Quarter Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Hello everyone.
By now I hope you’d seen the news release we issued earlier today announcing our third quarter results.
On today’s call Ralph and I will review the quarterly results and how they are tied to our growth strategies and then we’ll address the outlook for the rest of the year.
Please note before continuing the statements made on this call that are not historical facts or forward-looking statements actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Okay in general the third quarter results were mixed.
Sales and margins continued to be negatively affected by the strong U.S.
dollar and net earnings came in several cents lower than we expected.
However worldwide net sales increased 4% on a constant exchange rate basis despite greater than expected softness in the Americas reflecting strong growth in Japan and modest growth in Europe and the Asia Pacific regions.
Worldwide net sales declined 2% when reported in dollars on a GAAP basis.
In addition to the strong dollars effect on translation of foreign sales into U.S.
dollars we continued to experience a negative effect on foreign tourists spending in the U.S.
that was only partly offset by higher foreign tourist spending in other regions.
In addition we took a price increase in the quarter which moved us closer to restoring our global pricing structure to normal levels given the dollar’s continued strength.
Gross margin rose in the quarter and SG&amp;A expense growth was modest.
Adding it all up EPS of $0.70 was down 8% from non-GAAP EPS of $0.76 last year which had excluded a charge for debt extinguishment.
In other highlights we introduced new designs in several existing jewelry collections in a range of materials and price points.
We also made good progress with our long term strategy to optimize our store base with openings renovations relocations and closings and in light of recent stock price weakness purchases under our stock repurchase plan were increased allowing us to use our strong cash position to return value to shareholders.
So let’s now look at regional sales performance.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis total sales declined 5% and comparable store sales were down 6% on top of 11% comp increase in last year’s third quarter.
In the quarter we once again saw a substantial decline in sales to foreign tourists in varying degrees by nationality with pronounced weakness in New York area as well as in other tourist related markets on the East and West coast of the U.S.
and in Hawaii.
Sales to domestic customers were roughly flat from last year which we can partly attribute to difficult year-over-year comparisons but also perhaps to continued softness in broader consumer spending trends.
It’s also worth mentioning that we are in the process of some major U.S.
store renovations having just completed a magnificent upgrade of our important store on Michigan Avenue in Chicago and now focused on major renovations of our stores on Union Square and San Francisco and on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills.
In contrast to the disappointing sales results in the U.S.
we continued to generate solid comp store sales growth in Canada and Latin America in the quarter.
We entered the new market of Chile when we opened the store in Santiago in September and just earlier this month we relocated our Mexico City store within the El Palacio de Hierro Polanco which is the largest luxury department store in Latin America.
In dollars total sales in the Americas declined 7%.
Despite strong sales of statement jewelry there were varying degrees of softness across most other jewelry categories in stark contrast to last year’s strong third quarter.
Let’s now turn to results of the Asia Pacific region where on a constant exchange rates basis sales increased 6% in total and comp store sales rose 2% in contrast to a 3% comp decline in last year’s third quarter.
Overall results in the third quarter reflected healthy sales growth in China and Australia mixed results in other countries and continued pronounced weakness in Macau and Hong Kong.
During the quarter we expanded our store base in Asia Pacific by opening our fourth store in Macau in the Studio City Hotel and Resort.
Earlier this month we opened two stores one in China in Beijing SKP which was formerly known as the Shin Kong place which is a major shopping center in China and the other in Korea in the newly built Pangyo Hyundai Department Store.
With China in the news so much regarding their economy stock market and currency we are pleased and encouraged that our total sales in China increased by a healthy amount in the third quarter despite volatility and sensitivity to headline macro events.
It’s also important to note that we continued to benefit from spending by Chinese tourists as they travel to other regions.
So to reiterate what we had consistently said Tiffany remains focused on the long term growth opportunity to serve Chinese consumers both locally and globally and we have not in any way altered our strategies.
When measured in U.S.
dollars total Asia Pacific sales declined 2% in the quarter primarily reflecting the negative effect of currency translation.
Japan in the third quarter once again posted strong sales growth in yen.
Total sales rose 34% in yen driven by unit growth and increases in average price across all jewelry categories.
A 24% comp increase in yen was on top of the 6% comp declines in last year’s third quarter.
The vast majority of purchases in Japan are made by local customers and overall growth in the quarter was partly driven by higher local customer spending.
Also contributing to the sales growth were higher sales to foreign tourists’ particularly Chinese visitors as I alluded to a moment ago which maybe related to the attractiveness arising from the weaker yen as well as the Chinese shifting some of their travel this year away from Hong Kong and Macau atleast for the moment.
And I should add that a portion of Japan’s non-comp sales growth in the quarter was due to the timing of some wholesale sales.
The yen remains substantially weaker than the dollar but that 34% total sales growth in the quarter in local currency was still a solid 17% when translated into U.S.
dollars.
The store count in Japan was unchanged at 56 company operated locations but we are enhancing our store base by relocating two department store base locations this year.
Europe also continued to perform well in the quarter.
On a constant exchange rate basis due to a combination of higher sales to foreign tourists and to local customers that was geographically broad based across Continental Europe and in the U.K.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales increased 9% and comparable store sales rose 6% on top of the 2% comp increase in last year’s third quarter.
Engagement jewelry was the strongest category in Europe in the quarter but most other categories were up as well in local currencies.
And during the quarter as part of our focus on optimizing the existing store base we relocated and transitioned our one store within Harrods in London to become two separate boutiques one within their fine jewelry hall and the other within their luxury jewelry hall.
Earlier this year we had also relocated our store within Selfridges to gain a stronger and expanded presence.
And just earlier this month we were pleased to open our 40th store in Europe representing our third store in Spain and second in Madrid in the El Corte Inglés department store.
As we’ve said throughout this year both the euro and pounds weakness against the dollar have stimulated foreign tourist spending in Europe while perhaps also encouraging some Europeans to shop locally rather than abroad.
However when translated into U.S.
dollars total third quarter sales in Europe decreased 2% due to small variations among jewelry categories in unit volume and average price.
Lastly other sales rose 8% in the quarter on a constant exchange rate basis with comp store sales down 3%.
This smallest of our segments includes comparable store sales in our one store in Russia which has been a strong performer since opening last year and our five stores in the United Arab Emirates.
It also includes wholesale diamond sales which rose in the quarter as well as some third-party licensing revenue.
One element of our long-term strategy is to proactively engage customers in our stores through more consultative selling.
As I'd mentioned paralleling that is our strategy to optimize our store base through a combination of store openings renovations relocations and closings.
We are on-track to increase our company-operated worldwide store base by a net of 12 stores this year representing a 4% net increase in both our company-operated store base and in worldwide square footage.
The longer-term expectation is to increase worldwide square footage closer to 2% a year.
And of course we compliment our store presence with regular enhancements to our website in order to reinforce brand and product awareness.
We're also pleased to see an increase in worldwide e-commerce sales on a constant exchange rate basis in the quarter.
All of these initiatives in stores and online support our global strategy to further enhance customers relationship and experiences with Tiffany.
In terms of a few merchandizing highlights as measured in dollars category trends were pretty similar to recent quarters.
While there was some continued softness in the fine jewelry part of our statement fine and solitaire category we again experienced considerable growth in high-end statement jewelry through our VIP customer events.
The engagement jewelry category performed well in Japan and Europe but continued to post soft results on a worldwide basis.
The fashion jewelry category continued to have strong growth in gold jewelry reflecting the success of the Tiffany T collection although it’s worth noting that the year-over-year comparison was negatively effected by strong launch sales in last year's third quarter.
While our strategy for product innovation include the periodic introduction of entirely new design collection such as Tiffany T we are equally focused on expanding refreshing and reinterpreting existing collections in the interim years.
For example in order to improve our performance in silver jewelry sales at price points below $500 we recently introduced new designs in our popular Return to Tiffany collection with more to come next year.
We've seen good initial results but think we'll be better able to evaluate our success in the silver jewelry category after the holiday season.
In other initiatives Tiffany's Infinity jewelry collection which incorporates the design symbolic of continuous connection energy and vitality has been expanded in both silver and gold.
At higher price points we've expanded the beautiful Victoria collection with new designs in platinum and diamonds and the elegant Tiffany Bow collection with designs in gold and diamonds.
All these collections are being supported with broad print and digital advertising and we've been pleased with initial customer reaction.
Lastly we continue to be pleased with initial sales of our new CT60 and East West collection of watches that were launched earlier this year.
And we've just added some stunning new jewelry watches to the assortment.
As we previously said we are supporting the watch category with extensive marketing to strengthen awareness of not only the product but also our brand credibility and heritage.
So that's covers a sales highlight showing the wide range of performance and progress by region and product category.
I'm now please to turn the call over to Ralph.
Thank you Mark for that overview.
Before I review the rest of the results I'd like to summarize some of the highlights regarding the third quarter.
Once again the strong U.S.
dollar continued to negatively effect the translation of our results transacted outside the U.S.
with a 6% negative effect on worldwide sales and it adversely affected tourist spending in the U.S.
The operating margin while benefiting from a high gross margin continues to experience a lack of SG&amp;A expense leverage.
Earnings per share were down 8% from last year's adjusted EPS and were below our expectation that called for no earnings growth in the quarter.
We lowered our full year expectation for net earnings although we significantly increased our free cash flow projection based on effective inventory management.
Lastly in light of recent stock price weakness purchases made under our stock repurchase program were increased using our strong cash position to return value to shareholders.
Now let's look at the rest of the earnings statement.
Gross margin of 60.2% in the third quarter was 70 basis points higher than last year partly reflecting the favorable effect of product input costs but also some negative effect from shifts in product mix especially contrasting the relatively low gross margins of high price point statement jewelry sales which were strong with relatively high gross margins of silver jewelry sales which were weak.
An increase in the wholesale sales of diamonds also had some negative effect on gross margins.
In addition we took some price increases of varying degrees in all regions during the third quarter partly necessitated by the strong U.S.
dollar moving us closer but not completely to restoring our worldwide pricing structure to normal levels.
For the full year we continue to expect a modest increase in gross margins.
And as we mentioned three months ago on our last call gross margins should also benefit further from this year's declining precious metal and diamond cost but that benefit will take some time to be reflected in gross margins based on the rate of inventory turnover.
Selling general and administrative expenses rose only 1% in the quarter benefiting from the translation effect of a strong dollar and lower variable labor cost that largely offset investments in stores and higher pension costs.
SG&amp;A expense growth was reduced by 5% due to the translation effect of the strong dollar.
In addition as previously communicated we had expected that year-over-year growth in marketing would moderate due to heavy spending in last year's second half and that's what happened.
Interest and other expenses net in the quarter came in about equal to last year.
Interest expense itself continued to be lower than the prior year due to our refinancing of long-term debt to lower rates in October of 2014.
However we also recorded some foreign currency transaction losses in third quarter.
We continue to project interest in other expenses net at approximately $50 million in 2015.
The third quarter's effective tax rate of 35.5% was in line with last year's third quarter and we continue to forecast the full year effective tax rate in 2015 similar to last year's rate of 34.4%.
In terms of our balance sheet we finished the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $725 million while short-term and long-term debt of just over $1 billion represented 38% of stockholder's equity.
An important part of our financial strategy is to maintain adequate liquidity to invest in growing our business regardless of short term economic cyclicality.
At the same time we also regularly consider appropriate opportunities to return cash to shareholders in dividend growth and share repurchases.
During the second quarter we had increased our quarterly dividend by 5% which represented the 14th dividend increased in the past 13 years.
During the quarter in light of share price weakness purchases under our stock repurchase program accelerated as we spend approximately $60 million to repurchase our shares at an average cost of $80 per share.
We expect $116 million for share repurchases in this year to-date.
And at October 31st we had approximately $157 million available for repurchases under our current authorization that run through March of 2017.
Another one of our financial goals is to keep inventory growth below the rate of sales growth by achieving better productivity in our stores as well as in our overall supply chain while also maintaining deep assortments and high availability in our stores.
I'm pleased that our October 31 net inventories were 8% below last year excluding the translation effect of the strong U.S.
dollar inventory still decline by 4% compared with the 4% year to-date increased in worldwide sales on a constant exchange rate basis.
Rounding out our cash flow capital expenditures were $159 million in the year to-date versus $153 million a year ago.
We continue to forecast about $260 million for the full year with the focus on stores and new IT systems being implemented over several years including for global customer relationship management and inventory management.
In terms of our financial forecast we believe this third quarter results combined with volatile external conditions and negative effects from strong U.S.
dollar justify a downward adjustment to our earnings expectation.
Our Company is well-positioned for the holiday season with a strong product offering and the holiday advertising campaign that touches on many categories.
However the macro environment in the near term remains uncertain in the Americas and elsewhere.
Therefore we now believe its prudent to forecast full year EPS 5% to 10% lower than the $4.20 per share last year excluding charges for debt extinguishment last year and loan impairment in the second quarter of this year.
However from a cash flow perspective we are pleased with our progress and managing inventories more efficiently and we are significantly increasing our free cash flow objective by $100 million to now forecast in excess of $500 million for the full year.
In summary despite a number of challenges that have effected our financial results this year we are progressing in a number of areas that are all intended to strengthen Tiffany's positioning among the world's most important luxury brand while also enhancing profitability and productivity.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark.
Thanks Ralph.
We hope our review of third quarter results has been helpful and of course please call me with any questions.
A replay of the call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 564803.
Please note on your calendars that we expect to report sales results for the November December holiday period on January 19th before the market opens and it’s typical without a conference call.
Thanks for listening.
This does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Please standby we're about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Tiffany &amp; Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
Participating on today's call is Mr.
Frederic Cumenal Tiffany's CEO; and Mr.
Ralph Nicoletti Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr.
Mark Aaron Vice President of Investor Relations.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Aaron.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you good morning everyone.
We issued Tiffany's fourth quarter financial results earlier today and hope you have had the chance to read the news release.
On today's agenda I will review sales results Ralph will cover the rest of the earnings statements and the balance sheet and the 2016 outlook and then Frederic will close with some comments on strategy before we then answer your questions.
Before continuing please note the statements made on this call that are not historical facts or forward-looking statements actual results might differ materially from the expectations projected in those forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is set forth in Tiffany's Form 10-K 10-Q and 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Now let's proceed.
I think we can begin with a candid assessment that overall financial results 2015 were disappointing.
On the positive side we accomplished many on-going strategic initiatives tied to expanding and optimizing our store base and web presence introducing new product designs that resonated with customers managing inventories well and achieving strong free cash flow.
We improve Tiffany's gross margin by full point in the year and managed our SG&amp;A expenses prudently while increasing marketing spending.
However a worldwide sales increase of only 2% on a constant exchange rate basis and 3% decline as reported combing with the 9% decline in EPS excluding charges in 2014 &amp; 2015 clearly did not meet our initial targets.
For a good part of the year we achieved healthy sales growth on a constant exchange rate basis in most regions outside the U.S.
But sales were negatively affected by the translation effect of strong U.S.
dollar.
In the Americas our largest region we faced the daunting challenges in the U.S.
of sharply lowered foreign tourists spending along with weaker sales to domestic customers.
And then the year concluded on a softer note in most markets around the world.
While we can attribute some of the pressure on results of the strong U.S.
dollar and other macro factors that affected consumer spending bot with local customers and foreign tourists which we expect will continue into 2016 as Frederic will discuss.
We continue to focus on catalyst to drive our business effectively and efficiently as we invest in longer term growth opportunities.
And wrapping up the summary on a positive note our disciplined inventory management enabled us to exceed our objective for free cash flow.
While a portion of that cash gets reinvested into growing our business we also were pleased to return cash to shareholders through dividends including our fourteenth dividend increase in the past 13 years and share repurchases with our board authorizing a new and larger purchase program in January.
For now let's look at sales performance in our various regions.
First there were no meaningful changed in the geographical mix in 2015 versus 2014.
With the Americas again representing just under 50% of worldwide sales followed by Asia-Pacific at 24% Japan at 13% and Europe at 12%.
In the Americas on a constant exchange rate basis total and comp store sales in the full year were down 2% and 4% and trends were a bit softer in the fourth quarter with declines of 6% and 8%.
In dollars total sales declined 4% in the full year and 8% in the fourth quarter reflecting lower unit volume in the cross categories especially in silver jewelry under $500 partly offset by favorable pricing mix.
I already mentioned the adverse effect from the strong U.S.
dollar on foreign tourist's sales in Americas.
Although it cannot be tracked precisely we now estimate that foreign tourist's sales represent less than a quarter of U.S.
sales for roughly 40% of the sales in New York flagship store.
We saw a marked deceleration in Chinese tourist's spending in the fourth quarter in the Americas and frankly in most other regions as well.
In addition it's worth noting that domestic sales were also generally soft across the U.S.
in varying degrees in the full year and more so in the fourth quarter.
However we were pleased with local currency total sales growth in Canada and Latin America.
During the year we added a net of two stores in Americas.
Opening in the U.S.
in the Miami design district in Ottawa Canada and in Santiago Chile and closing the U.S.
store in the Mohegan Sun Resort.
We also relocated a few stores in the Americas region in line with our strategy to optimize our store base and continue with the worldwide program to renovate stores to a new design aesthetic.
In the Asia-Pacific region on a constant exchange rate basis total sales in the full year rose 3% and comparable store runs unchanged.
While total in comp stores sales softened in the fourth quarter declining 3% and 8%.
Within the region Greater China is comprised of the 51 total stores we operate across China Hong Kong Taiwan and Macau and represents more than half of the total sales of the region.
For the year we experienced some growth throughout most markets in the Asia-Pacific region led by strengths in mainland China and Australia but we also saw substantial softness in Hong Kong.
Growth decelerated in the fourth quarter across most of the region reflecting the further softening of Chinese tourist spending that I alluded to earlier.
Spending within China was strong throughout the fourth quarter but it's been more volatile since then.
In addition there is clearly no way to predict when sales growth will resume in Hong Kong so we are assuming that softness will continue through 2016.
When measured in U.S.
dollars total Asia-Pacific sales declined 2% in the full year and 8% in the fourth quarter due to generally lower jewelry unit's volume in most categories partly offset by higher average pricing mix.
We continue to be pleased with our progress in developing brand awareness of Tiffany with the Chinese customers.
Volatile economies currencies and soft markets certainly effect short term spending by customers of all nationalities including those in China.
However we remain committed to serving the growing desires of those customers seeking extraordinary jewelry of the finest quality and with a wonderful in-store experience.
It was substantial store activity across the Asia-Pacific region during the year with the net addition of 8 stores.
We opened 11 stores including 5 in China 2 in Macau and 1 each in Korea Singapore Taiwan and Thailand.
We also closed 3 existing stores in the region including one each in China Korea and Taiwan.
Now turning to Japan we had a very successful year in 2015.
On a constant exchange rate basis total sales rose 10% and comp stores sales rose 5% in the full year and we finished with increases of 12% in total sales and 10% in comps in the fourth quarter.
Throughout the year our results in Japan benefitted from higher foreign tourists spending predominantly Chinese while domestic customer spending fluctuated and was roughly unchanged for the full year.
The weaker Yen versus the Dollar had a substantially negative effect on the translation of those sales into dollars in the year although less so in the fourth quarter.
And when measured in dollars total sales in Japan declined 2% in the full year but rose 9% in the fourth quarter.
We kept the number of company operated stores in Japan and unchanged at 56.
Although during the year we expanded two stores and relocated two others.
We also achieved strong sales growth in Europe through most of the year on a constant exchange rate basis due to a combination of higher foreign tourist spending likely tied to a weak Euro in town as well as local customer demand.
For sales growth decelerated considerably in the fourth quarter especially in France following the tragedy in Paris that reverberated across other countries in the region as well.
However for the full year on a constant exchange rate basis total and comparable store sales grow 12% and 9% with strength across continental Europe and the U.K.
which represents the vast 40% of our European sales.
In the fourth quarter however total sales grows 2% and comp store sales declined 3% due to the pronounced softness and France and mixed results elsewhere.
When translated into U.S.
Dollars total sales in Europe declined 1% in the full year and 6% in the fourth quarter partly due to modest declines in jewelry unit volume as well as lower average price that was largely currency related.
We were active on the store fronts in Europe in 2015 opening our first store in Geneva and our second in Madrid and we also enhanced our store presence in London with relocations in both Harrods and Selfridges.
We also now include our Moscow store which has been posting strong growth since opening in early 2014 within the Europe region instead of in the other segments.
We concluded 2015 with 41 stores in Europe and last month we opened the third store in Rome on Via dei Condotti.
Lastly other sales declined 13% in the full year and were down 6% in the fourth quarter.
Both periods were affected by comp store sales declines in our stores in the UAE and there were lower wholesale sales in diamonds in the full year.
From my comments on this region you can see that it was an active year on the store development front as we continue to optimize our store based partly with store openings but also with a substantial number of renovations and relocations and some closings.
The ultimate objective is to drive better topline growth through stronger comparable store sales growth rather than from simply opening substantial numbers of stores.
For the full year we opened 16 stores and closed four representing a 4% increase on the number of company-operated stores and a corresponding 4% increase in worldwide gross square footage.
Our plan for 2016 is open 11 stores across most regions while also closing or relocating some existing ones resulting in a 2% net increase in company-operated retail square footage.
The longer term expectation is to approximately maintain that square footage gross rate.
In terms of store productivity worldwide sales per gross square foot for company-operated stores declined slightly $2 900 compared with $3 100 per foot in 2014 resulting from the 4% increase in worldwide square footage for lesser growth in sales.
By regions sales productivity in 2015 ranged from $4 300 in Asia Pacific to $3 100 in Japan to $2 900 in Europe to $2 300 in the Americas region.
Of course keep in mind that the negative translation effect on sales from the strong dollar had a meaningful effect on any decline in productivity.
Before concluding the regional sales review it's worth reminding everyone of the meaningful benefits that we derive from complementing our store presence with our website which reinforce brand and product awareness and can drive store traffic.
E-commerce sales in dollars grows modestly in the full year which was better than the 3% worldwide sales decline and continue to represent 6% of worldwide sales.
This dual focus on stores and online supports our global strategy to enhance our relationships with customers and optimize their overall experiences with Tiffany.
Finally from a merchandising perspective the decline fourth quarter sales did not include any significant differences in performance among our product categories on a worldwide basis.
For the full year the 3% worldwide sales decline in dollars or the 2% increase on the constant exchange rate basis included virtually in line performance relative to overall sales for the statement fine and solitaire jewelry category.
Although with strong sales growth with statement jewelry.
In line relative performance for the fashion jewelry category although with continued strong gold jewelry sales and a slight relative underperformance in the engagement jewelry category although a new marketing campaign that we launched last month is intended to address that engagement softness.
We were pleased with customer response to new products that we introduced in the fashion and fine jewelry categories including design reinterpretation in our Return to Tiffany and Infinity collections which have been successful in mitigating some of the softness in silver jewelry sales under $500.
Our new designs in the Victoria and Bow fine jewelry collections including diamonds the continued success of the Tiffany T collection which reached the highest sales level ever for a jewelry collection in its first 12 months and we were pleased with sales of our new watch collections including the CT60 and the East West collections.
So that covers the regional and product sales highlights and I'll now turn the call over to Ralph.
Thank you Mark.
For forward looking and the rest of the results I would like to reinforce some few points.
Sales force was challenged by the strong U.S.
dollar throughout the year both on the effect on the translation of results and the effect on tourist spending in the U.S.
While we saw a higher gross margin in the full year and fourth quarter the operating margin was pressured all year by the lack of sales growth and the resulting sales deleverage on SG&amp;A expenses.
A 9% decline in EPS for the full year excluding charges in 2015 and 2014 was below our initial expectation a year ago that had called for minimal growth.
However we managed the inventories more efficiently meeting our objective to keep inventory growth below sales growth and finished the year generating higher amount of free cash flow of then initially planned.
We return cash to shareholders to substantial share repurchases and another increase in dividend and we expect the further strengthening of the dollar along with challenging and volatile external conditions that affect customer spending to continue to pressure results in 2016 and especially in the first half of the year.
Let's look at the rest of the earnings statement the balance sheet and our forecast.
Gross margin grows in the full year and the fourth quarter.
We benefitted throughout the year to varying degrees from favorable product input cost while sales mix fluctuated during the year.
We also took price increases during the year that addressed most of the pressure from the strong dollar and has enabled us to restore our global pricing structure pretty much back to normal levels.
Our forecast for gross margin in 2016 close to some increase primarily due to lower product input cost as well as benefits from price increases taken within the past year and anticipated modest increases in the coming year.
For our expectation for minimum sales growth will continue to put some pressure on gross margin as it will be difficult to get sales leverage on fixed cost.
Selling general and administrative expenses grow 5% in the full year and 6% in the fourth quarter.
Both of those results included translations benefits from the strong dollar.
We would also note that the full year SG&amp;A expenses included a $38 million loan impairment charge with $10 million of that in the second quarter and $28 million in the fourth quarter related to a diamond mining company in Sierra Leone and also included a $9 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter for staffing and occupancy reduction.
Excluding these charges SG&amp;A growth in the quarter and year was due to store related spending and higher pension cost partially upset by lower variable cost.
In addition marketing spending grows in the full year to represent 7.4% of net sales from 6.7% in the prior year.
Although marketing spending declined in the fourth quarter as we expected due to disproportionally high spending in the fourth quarter of 2014 tied to the launch of the Tiffany T Collection.
We expect SG&amp;A expenses in 2016 to increase over 2015's SG&amp;A expense including charges due to increase in store related and marketing expenses with some benefit from lower pension clock.
Our projections for 2016 of a modest increase in the gross margin and for the SG&amp;A expense growth exceeding sales growth mostly due to higher store related costs will result in a decline of the operating margin for the year.
Interests and other expenses net declined in the full year due to our refinancing of long term debt to lower interest rates in October of 2014.
Interest and other expenses net were about flat in the fourth quarter.
We are projecting interest and other expenses net to be approximately unchanged in 2016.
The effective tax rate for the full year was slightly higher than last year and we are projecting a fractionally lower rate in 2016.
Adding it all up net earnings declined 5% in the fourth quarter and 9% in full years excluding charges in both years.
This followed a 13% increase in net earnings in 2014 excluding charges.
Putting together our assumptions for 2016 we arrive at a forecast going for net earnings ranging from unchanged to a mid-single digit decline compared to the $3.83 per diluted share excluding charges in 2015.
While we expect a gradually improving pace of sales over four quarters we also expect a similar progression in terms of earnings with earnings declining in the first quarter by 15% to 20% a 5% to 10% decline in the second quarter and then followed by a resumption of growth in the second half.
Most importantly we will continue throughout the year to focus on investing and improving the business despite a choppy and uncertain environment.
Looking at our balance sheet we finished the year in a very solid position.
Net inventories of $2.2 billion as of January 31 were 6% lower in the prior year-end.
Raw materials and working process declined 4% and finished goods inventories declined 7% reflecting more effective inventory management.
Even excluding the translation effect from the strong dollar net inventories would have declined 4% in the year compared with the 2% on worldwide net sales on a constant exchange basis.
We are projecting inventories in 2016 to be roughly unchanged.
Accounts receivables of $206 million were 6% higher than year ago largely reflecting in house credit tied to strong sales of statement jewelry but the receivables turnover remained a very high at 21x per year.
Our capital expenditures totaled $253 million in 2015 versus $247 million in the prior year and represented 6% of sales in both years.
Approximately half of our CapEx is store related for openings renovations and relocations.
With that store related mix shifting more toward renovations and relocations.
CapEx also currently includes substantial spending during a multi-year period to introduce new IT systems with a major focus on a global customer relationship management system and a new inventory management system.
We began 2015 projecting that we would generate free cash flow of at least $400 million and later in the year revised the forecast upwards to at least $500 million based on better inventory management.
We are pleased to now report that actual pre cash flow for 2015 amounted to $561 million and for 2016 we are projecting to generate free cash flow of at least $400 million.
In addition to continuing to reinvest some in the business we regularly evaluate opportunities to return cash to shareholders through dividend growth and share repurchases.
We were quite active in that area in 2015.
In the second quarter we increased our quarterly dividend rate by 5% which represented the fourteenth dividend increase in the past 13 years and as the year progressed we stepped up the pace of share repurchases to take advantage of a lower stock price.
For the full year we spent $220 million to repurchase 2.8 million shares at an average cost of $78 per share.
In January our board replaced an existing $300 million repurchase program that had only about $59 million of authorization maintaining and replaced it with a new authorization permitting repurchase up to $500 million of common stock.
At January 31 approximately $494 million remained available for repurchase under that new program that expires in January 2019.
Factoring everything we highlighted we finished the year in cash and short term investment of $887 million and $1 billion of short term and long term debt that represented 38% of stock holders equity.
Despite the lower earnings Tiffany's full year returns on assets as recorded was approximately 9% and the return of the stockholders equity was approximately 16% close to our long term objectives of at least a 10% ROA and at least a 15% ROE.
Looking at our longer term we believe that by continuing to invest in sales growth opportunities and managing cost effectively helped by more favorable external environment Tiffany will be well positioned to achieve and improve sustainable financial performance.
Given this our earnings objectives ultimately includes reaching high-single digits net earnings growth driven by mid-single digit worldwide net sales growth on a constant exchange rate basis by also continuing a very strong pre cash flow.
Wrapping up my remarks with a challenging year with overall disappointing financial performance however that should not over shadow the progress we are making to operate Tiffany's business more profitably over the longer term.
I will now turn the call over to Frederic and we will then take some questions.
Thank you Ralph and thank you Mark for those reviews.
While our financial results in 2015 were clearly disappointing I also believe that challenges can help us to learn and sharpen our focus on number of important initiatives within our control in order to derive better financial performance going forward.
And I believe that Tiffany has many fantastic growth opportunities world over.
On our call a year ago I talked about a clear road map of the future focused the historic experience product marketing and supply chain and margin improvements.
I believe we made progress in all of those areas in 2015 and we have continued opportunities to do more in 2016 and beyond.
Our overall objective is to derive separate total shareholder return through self-growth and improving margins and cash flow strengthening the brand and the customer experience and achieving operational excellence.
Our key strategy focuses on selling and what I mean by that is to better engage with our customers through a more consulted approach in our thoughts through enhanced visual merchandizing presentation through better customer data analytics using a new global CRM system and through optimizing our store base.
In regard to stores we were active in 2015 through openings renovations relocations and a few closings.
In the coming years we will continue to be very focused in optimizing our existing store base with a 2% net increase in worldwide square footage that includes opening 11 new stores through most regions.
As we continue to increase Tiffany's worldwide store base our ultimate objective is to ensure that we are best positioned in every market where we have a presence.
We were pleased with customer reactions to the new design that we have introduced in 2015.
Those designs included extraordinary statements pieces in the Art of Sea collection in our Blue Book that was introduced to very strong demand.
And at the other extreme we worked at improving our entry level silver jewelry assortment with some encouraging early results.
We were so very proud to make our official strategic reentry into the watch category and double our watch sales albeit on a very small base.
I also believe that our marketing through print and digital media and catalogues is more effectively communicating Tiffany as the global luxury brand with appeal to both the gift giver and the self-purchaser.
With an extraordinary product assortment and a 170-year age heritage we have strong messages to convey to customers.
I'm pleased to say that we attracted some highly skilled new members of management at various levels and in different areas of responsibility over the past year and now have experienced teams in place at the global and regional levels to execute our strategies.
And despite the operation sales and earnings in 2015 I was pleased that we increased our growth margin and managed expenses prudently and we all well maintain a strong financial position.
While we invested in our business in stores into outsourcing and in developing new IT system we were still able to return a meaningful amount of cash to shareholders.
I'll close by reiterating our objective to reinforce Tiffany's position amongst the world's most important luxury brand.
External pressures on our business will eventually evade and we believe that the long term global growth opportunities for the Tiffany brand are compelling.
We will remain committed to building on Tiffany's great heritage by delivering the finest products and experiences to a growing number of customers.
I hope that many of you will participate in our investor day meeting on April 12 whether in person or on the webcast and I look forward to seeing many of you throughout the year and updating you on our progress.
I'll now turn the call back to Mark and we can open up the call to answer some questions.
Thank you Frederic.
Taylor I think we're ready to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you good morning.
I want to follow up on the state of the domestic consumer spending in the U.S.
What do you think is driving the sales decline there? And then what is the pace of newness look like to try to reinvigorate that business from here? Talking specifically about the domestic consumer in the U.S.
because we all know the very negative impact of foreign tourist that we have to deal in '15 and frankly that we will mostly likely have to continue to deal with in '16.
The domestic consumers in the U.S.
behavior have been quite fickle and frankly we can put that partly on the economic uncertainty on the volatility of the financial market and on a particularly tensed electoral campaign in a year of presidential election.
The pace of introduction of novelty will continue to remain high and frankly we will continue and we will faster the introduction of newness at or below $500 price point.
What we think and what we experience by the end of the year in the U.S.
through the introduction of new SKUs namely behind Infinity as a collection and Return to Tiffany.
We've really enjoyed some significant success behind those introductions.
So what we have in our plans for the year is to faster the pace of introduction especially below $500 price point on several collections.
Thank you.
Okay next question.
And we'll take our next question from Anne-Charlotte Windal with Bernstein.
Good morning.
So looking at your Q1 EPS guidance it seems to imply a little bit of deterioration in supply trend compared to Q4 so could you please elaborate for us on the trends and drivers you are currently seeing across regions from a topline standpoint.
I think you are alluded to a little bit of weakness in China going into Q1.
Thank you.
Anne-Charlotte it's Ralph.
Good morning.
What I'll do is maybe talk a little bit about the earnings that I spoke about just previously on the remarks and then maybe Frederic will turn a little bit more to a view of the regions in your question as related to what we were seeing at the end of the fourth quarter.
Clearly we're in a very choppy volatile environment.
We saw that coming out of the fourth quarter.
So when we look at the progression of our sales and particularly in the first quarter and what the comparisons also look like.
We see the first half of the year more challenging than the second half and then with that as you know on this business you need solid growth to get expense leverage and frankly we're going to be not seeing that.
It's going to build through the year so it's difficult to get expense leverage and that puts some pressure on the EPS particularly in the first half of the year and most acutely in the first quarter.
Last year I mean 2015 the first part of the year we've enjoyed a very nice growth in Europe thanks to influx of tourists and we believe that because of what's going on in Europe has a combination of break sit in the U.K.
migrants in continental Europe and in the U.K.
and risk of terrorism or perception of risk of terrorism we believe that the tourist business in Europe that is a main driver of sales for this region will be very significantly down.
You also remember that Q1 of last year we're above by comparison to Q1 of '14.
A very good performance in Japan.
Despite the fact that we are continuing to grow and we plan to continue to grow in Japan frankly.
We want to enjoy such higher growth and the one that we have been able to enjoy during the first part of the year of '15.
And lastly just on your comment on China frankly we are quite pleased with mainland China and all performance in China.
We have had very solid performances in '15 in China and we have no reason to think that our performance won't be good in mainland China in '16.
Truth is that greater China because of Hong Kong continues to be a nightmare.
There is no other word and I believe this is the same for all of us all the luxury player.
We don't know when we will bottom up and we don't believe that the situation will significantly improve in Hong Kong during '16.
So this is why we are not too bullish and Hong Kong is a significant market despite the decrease in '15 and this is why despite of overall good performance or we plan for good performance in '16 overall in Asia but it will be negatively impacted by a low performance in Hong Kong.
Exactly.
Okay.
Next question? We will take our next question from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Thanks for all the information and thanks for taking question.
I wanted to follow up on the topic of newness and innovation and fashion trying to understand it sounds like those areas outperformed the rest of the categories and portfolio.
I'm trying to understand why it didn't maybe help the overall business more.
Can you talk a little bit more about the opportunity to accelerate the process of bringing new products and collections and innovation to the stores and to the consumer? It sounds like the under $500 price point is going to be a focus but is there opportunity to do more at higher price points as well? Are there supply chain constraints that make it more difficult? Just trying to understand the overall picture there around newness new collections new products.
Thank you.
Okay.
Omar in a nut shell we will continue and we will accelerate the newness on some of our core collections.
Remember as stated by Mark that we are very successful with Tiffany T but it's only the beginning so we are going to continue to focus on establishing Tiffany T as an icon and we are to continue to leverage on newness and so you will see the emphasis on newness on T to engage even more with the consumer.
You will also see newness on the very important collection that is particularly relevant on silver and under $500 around return to Tiffany that is going to be supported by new market access.
And frankly we know that this collection is particularly relevant it's not the only one but to millennial.
You will also see some more refresh on 1837 and some other collections but at the same time not only we see that it is clearly a collection cutting on retail between $750 and $5000 but you will see newness on some more classic fine jewelry we have introduced big refreshed collection around Victoria in bold in Q4 of 2015.
We are going to continue to push behind those collections and to introduce some more newness behind those collections.
You are going to see us to continue to activate and to refresh and to introduce new things on key so we are going to be particularly active in 2016 on the front of the newness frankly at every price point not only under $500.
And Omar its Ralph on the back end of your question on the supply chain this one really highlights it.
This was where our unique vertically integrated manufacturing and diamond sourcing capabilities your positions very well here and so there's no issue in the supply chain and in fact we think it's a strong asset that we have to execute against the areas that Frederic just mentioned.
Thank for all the information.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Brian Nagel from Oppenheimer.
Hi good morning thanks for all of that and my thanks for taking questions on the call.
So the question I have is a strange one but a lot of talk for a while down to today's call about the impact the stronger U.S.
dollar has upon domestic business you have stores elsewhere so when currency shifts you see sales throughout your system but the question I have is Is there a lever or levers that Tiffany can pull in attempt to mitigate the impact of the stronger dollar in the U.S? Yes I will start maybe from the supply chain how we think in terms of the capital and that side and then Frederic can pick up on the more strategic end of it.
First as we look at it Brian as we have talked about this before in different conferences as such our cost base and our footprint is largely still in an evolving way going from a U.S.
centric in when most of our revenue not long ago was mostly coming from the U.S and maybe to a lesser extent Japan to a real global footprint.
And building out our global capabilities in terms of how we source from a procurement standpoint how and where we manufacture are all areas that we are taking a hard look at and have some action plans to extending our capabilities there so there is on the -- I will go on the infrastructure side we are taking steps that over the next few years is going to make us better positioned to manage a strong dollar environment or frankly a more volatile currency environment over time in any direction that the dollar moves.
So taking a lot of steps in that direction and then on capital allocation these volatile conditions up from a strategic standpoint on capital allocations doesn't deter us from investing in key locations and key markets that we think strategically important to be at and you saw some of that in our investments in stores this year particularly in Asia Europe and I think you will continue to see us invest smartly in locations so just will even better position our global footprint stores.
And in the question of volatility of currencies is the critical one because it is not so much the value of the dollar that is the concern.
The concern is the unpredictability and the reality for consumers is that perception is reality so when you have a currency moving in one direction or the other direction consumers and tourist really tend to believe that everything is on deal in a given country or that everything is super expensive in another country.
And brands as powerful as we can be or as powerful as some other brands can be there is not a lot of things we can do to counter this perception frankly when we look internally at our price differentials in the world we are not any cheaper in Europe than we are in the U.S.
so for Chinese consumers buying Tiffany in Europe is not really a better deal than buying Tiffany in the U.S.
But they believe that everything in Europe is cheaper and there is nothing that I can do and we are not going to enter in terms of promotional we are not going to reinforce promotional activities and started to discount things we will never do that.
We have a lot of concerted effort to manage and to track and to risk but the key for us is really always and always about the brand equity brand management reinforcing the relevance of the brand with all of our customers throughout a great job in their local market and second reinforcing the customer experience both online and offline in retail stores when they are paying us a visit.
It's all very helpful thank you and if I could just slip one short follow up in there.
Would the market rebound recently? Have you seen a positive impact in your I recognize this is a short term question? Yes it is very short term so we will pass on it.
Okay thanks anyway.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Antoine Belge from HSBC.
Yes hi this Antoine Belge at HSBC.
I have got three questions.
You discussed the product pipeline but could you also discuss the marketing initiatives especially others in terms of new traditional marketing but also in terms of digital do you think you could do a few things better? Second question is on the rhythm on the face of store openings it's indicated to be only around 2% but it also looks like it is going to be structural because it is also becoming your long-term guidance.
So could you maybe elaborate a little bit on that? And finally can you -- regarding the gross margin with seeing favorable raw material prices at the end of last year usually there is a certain time lag like 12 or 18 months could you also tell us when you expect those tailwinds to feature in the gross margin? Thank you.
Yes Antoine hi it's Ralph good morning.
I'll pick the gross margin first since you ended on that one.
First overall we are pleased with our gross margin performance as we said in our remarks we grew at a 100 basis points in 2015 and I guided to making some improvement in 2016.
In 2016 we are seeing the benefit from lower product cost benefitting gross margin in the metals area.
On the diamond side we are we have said in the past we have seen some recent declines in rough diamond prices.
We do have some of those lower cost diamond inventory in our process but it's going to take really into 2017 for that to work into the P&amp;L.
So 2016 lower product cost metal driven and some of our manufacturing initiatives and then 2017 we'd be beginning to get the benefit from diamond pricing.
On the store front I guess that we've always been very clear in terms of messaging about the fact that we are very much about locations locations and locations.
So while working a lot that's always improving the quality of our location and you know that the line is changing in the world.
So some of our stores were maybe perfectly located ten or 15 years ago and they are not anymore so this is why you can see us relocating or even some places.
But the future our future is not about opening a very high number of stores per year.
We are still in the very unique position of being able to continue to grow geographically and to reinforce our position but it's more critical for us to reinforce the customer experience through new design better fitting better lighting and by design I'm talking about the store design the store concept and always working on that opening a very high number of stores.
So we are very selective and very picky in making the case for this kind of long term 2% growth in term of square footage.
In term of marketing because the operation was a branch of different question in term of marketing and communications specifically two things; you've seen the beginning of the year and this is what we are doing right now that we've introduced 360 marketing approach behind our Bridal and FDR.
This is the year of the celebration of the 130 anniversary of the introduction of Six-Prong setting the Tiffany Setting and frankly we are using that as an alibi to highlight our craftsmanship heritage and authority that we are on a category that is quite pivotal to the jewelry segment.
And lastly on digital we are spending we have been spending and we are trying to be state of the art on digital.
Are we? No.
Will we ever be? No because always someone will do better than the ones after but not in luxury actually.
I will argue that we are probably more leading the pack the group in luxury than following all the luxury players.
Do we have a lot of things to improve? Absolutely.
Will you see some new things in digital? Frankly you will see from us new things from digital every day because this is of pay and this is very demanding this is high cost of doing business because you need to have your own team you need to work with a lot of different partners and nevertheless you need to try the right balance between allowing social media and the word of mouth to do a part of the job for you but also to control the key messaging.
Thank you very much.
Next question? And we'll take our next question from Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities Hi good morning.
This is Kevin leaning on for Bob.
I was just wondering if you could discuss some of the efforts and progress you've made on improving the store experience whether it's the quality of relationship of sales associates with the customers the presentation of product and then maybe what you've seen from the renovations you've done in Chicago and then I think you talked about San Francisco and Beverly Hills as other locations that you were looking at to do some of the renovations.
It's Ralph.
I'll start in just maybe responding to the renovation question and what we've seen-- not getting into any specific stores because how we think about renovations is first we have a disciplined process to approaching this to our priorities to renovate to upgrade the experience for the customer in the stores and we prioritize around key locations.
So stores like Chicago is an example are very evident to that and it's important.
Frankly our results and we've said in the past the results in terms of incremental revenue growth from after renovation has been mixed.
It really depends on the store.
It depends on what we're bringing in around it and nonetheless it's very important that we do that for making sure that we're providing a great customer experience and in some ways you could think of it as a cost of doing business and others.
It is an investment in our presentation to customers.
The story trend by itself is only a part of a larger ambition that is again about better engaging the customers to frankly improve our fair over all.
And it's made of different elements.
It's related to leveraging better on our client based and frankly we have been ramping up our clienteling programs and CRM activation a little bit everywhere in the world but frankly we are focusing a lot on the U.S.
It's also about raising the level of set mindset of thought through better program of animation and employee engagement around what I call a service signature that is beyond excellence and we are deploying very aggressively and generally training and coaching and we have big programs.
And they are ongoing and fully there is not a D-Day about that there is not the day where things are done but really we are investing significant time and money behind that.
And it's also as we already pointed out about the consent optimization of store design to provide a better experience in term of basic things comfort lighting sitting it's depending of the categories or range of products that we are talking about.
We need sitting or we don't need sittings and it's also about mobility better use of tablets and things like that.
So we just recently opened a new store in Chengdu in China in Taikoo Li where we've tried to implement the latest concept that we have right now and we are tracking and learning day by day.
But we are extremely pleased by the results.
So some more to come.
Thanks very much.
And we'll take our next question from Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Good morning everyone and thank you very much for doing this question and answer session.
As you think about the refresh of Tiffany with experience Omni channel product innovations store selling.
How far along are you and as you do move along how do you see the long term ability for operating margins? Could they return to a 20% plus type of level or what do you see on the horizon? Thank you.
Hi Dana it's Ralph.
On the operating margin question we've said in the past and we continue to be confident that we could grow our operating margin about 50 basis points a year over time.
We don't have a clear view of where the feeling is on that but we think we have plenty of room to grow our operating margin and it's driven by a combination of mid-single digit sales growth with a focus frankly on comp store sales which as you know would help margin improving our manufacturing and distribution for print for a more global presence and a real sharp attack on cost on the SG&amp;A area and driving that.
So I think a combination of those areas while continuing to invest in marketing.
It's an equation that we're comfortable saying that we could overtime grow 50 basis points.
But we need to get as you know now in the near term we need to get the sales growth back to mid-single digit levels.
And if I may and we can be very clear about that.
We don't believe that the structure of business should be around 20% growth margin we have much higher operating margin sorry.
We have much higher ambition.
How long will that take is really the question but it's really your ambition is not to come back and to say a 20% but to achieve much higher numbers and on the first part of your question there is no final line there is nothing I believe that you will never hear us at least not me saying oh this is done.
It's an endless journey because the day you believe you have done everything you wanted to do there are more things to do because consumers are more exigent rightly so they have different experience they want to enjoy themselves even more and that said and we have to take on the challenge of delivering.
Thank you And we will take our next question from Randal Konik from Jefferies.
Great thanks a lot.
I wanted to go back to the product focus and the collections etcetera.
When you think about the innovation strategy just wanted to be clear you have about 15 collections on the website.
How should we be thinking about the number of collections for the next few years and then as you add newness should we be thinking about the gross add for the skew count of the portfolio or are you looking to kind of pair down some of the existing skews in the portfolio of products as you ramp up innovation and from Francesca's standpoint she did a great job with the Tiffany T collection you know from her vantage point is it something she believes that the company needs to have more named collections or more standout pieces within the existing collections of the portfolio? I am just trying to get some perspective there and then lastly as related to your price strata you talked a lot about your really innovating price points below 500 can we get some perspective on what kind of attrition is of price points below 500 today and what's the goal of that penetration over the medium term? Thanks.
So to start on the number of collections and frankly just for reference the role of a design director is to design on bricks so the design director by definition doesn't have any opinion about the number of collections because any design director will live to develop one end or two ends of a different collections and we are clearly not of this school of thought.
Now the skews it is clear that when we are introducing new skews we are also using that as an opportunity to review the skew base and we are not about proliferation of skew.
So if anything within the past few years we have reduced the number of skews and we need to do a better job and this is particularly on the net on all sites because we are presenting too many skews that some of them you won't find them in stores.
And it is a little bit the tail of the collections so it's probably and we are not considering that right now.
And it's not making a good service and it's not helping us in this direction so no skew proliferation if anything let's keep skew and then more skews.
About the number of collections frankly we have got six or seven key collections.
Will we introduce new collection in the future? Yes absolutely we will and the life of some of the collections that are maybe smaller and some we will focus less in the future on some of them but remember that those collections lot of them have the capabilities and the ability to cover different price points.
Not necessarily all of them below $500 price points but let's use T today or T tomorrow yes we have got one or two skews actually at $500 price point but we all know that the core offering of T is more on $1500 than anything else but this is a collection that can go much higher.
And today it's going as high as $5 000 but there is no reason not to consider in the future this collection to have more accent diamonds and some other things so you know those collections can play a role at very different price points.
So it will be a mix of reworking refreshing collections and innovating in existing collections but it will also be completed by a new T or something totally different but in the coming few years.
And then just on the price point of $500 below what's the penetration where do you want the penetration to be? Thank you.
Yes Randy we don't have a specific goal on that but rest assured we have growth opportunities across the whole portfolio and in the under 500 price points it's an important part of our business but it's not the core of everything we have going on here as Frederic said we have a lot of lot of strong initiatives across all price points.
And we are talking about those initiatives because as you know they are a part fewer event some U.S.
customers they are much less outside the U.S.
So as we said Randy we have not been looking to turbocharge those price points over jewelry but we certainly want to stabilize that category at some point and new products have indicated that we are moving in that direction.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks.
And we will take our next question from Dorothy Lakner from Topika Capital Markets Thanks and good morning everyone.
I wondered if Ralph you talked about initiatives in manufacturing and making sure that Tiffany has a true global footprint there so I just wondered if you could provide a little bit more color on what you are working on how you are planning to do that? Thank you.
Thanks Dorothy for the question.
The way we are thinking about is a couple of ways.
First not that long ago we got into manufacturing on a vertically integrated basis and so we have been building the capability and in time and in over time we have been doing this we have been finding more and more ways to be more efficient in the operations we have so one element of this is within the manufacturing footprint we have to continue to invest in the capabilities to improve our efficiencies.
Second and I talk about this around systems we have systems today that support our manufacturing and distribution network to our stores that was in place 20 years ago or more.
When we were basically a small U.S.
company and as we upgrade some of those systems capabilities it will enable us to be much more nimble in terms of how we manage our inventory much more efficient of in the movement of our products and the accuracy of how we deploy and replenish our stores.
So those kind of areas all bring us significant amount of cost inventory and service opportunity for us.
Those are a couple of examples and then maybe the last one I would add is just the area of procurement.
And this runs both in SG&amp;A and also in direct cost in particular that sit inside our gross margin.
This year we really created a global procurement function and it's because we weren't really leveraging our global scale and footprint.
And we put that in place and have got a very good start to it this year.
We are going to see benefits in 2016 and it's going to build over time and that's the area and capabilities that we think there is a lot of runway at and that will help us manage costs as well.
Great thank you.
And we will take our next question from Paul Swinand from Morningstar.
Good morning and thanks for taking all the questions.
Just wanted to ask you a little bit about the long term cash flow.
I know you improved cash flow despite the sales deleverage.
I know in your other markets I know it's largely inventory but it looks like on the balance sheet other assets as well.
Can you comment on the long term efficiency and ability to improve those cash flow buckets over many years? Paul its Ralph.
A couple of ways I want to address your question.
I think your first an overall working capital our focus has in this past year as you can see from our results has been on inventory management and there I just want to frame a little bit that the way we think about it and I would also say our inventory management process in the results that we have is really been an internal team effort here.
It's a cross functional group our merchandising marketing sales and finance team is really working hard at this and you could see the benefits.
But as we think about it we're thinking about inventory management is a way to enable sales and improve cash flow both not one of the other but both.
And so it's about getting more efficient on the raw and packaging material front and diamond side linked to having better deployment and accuracy on the product placement in our stores and improving turns over there.
So that's one clear aspect of it.
We have a lot of runway for improvement there but it cuts and widespread at this way because it cuts into two directions.
One there is an effort to this process to remove some of the excess that we have that is inefficient and not working for us.
But as we better deploy our inventory we're also going to improve the turnover and that's the other side of it so we can improve our turns as we get better in terms of how and where we replenish.
So that's how we're thinking about it.
We have a lot of runway.
That's why I'm confident that overtime we can manage our inventory growth grow our sales growth.
As it relates to the other parts of the balance sheet frankly I think we're in good shape on capital.
We're getting very sharp on our discipline around the cost side of capital.
We've always been disciplined on the location and strategy side but getting sharper principally through procurement on capital.
And then areas of payables and accounts receivables and what I would call cash conversion cycle.
Frankly we haven't put a lot of focus on that.
I think we've been operating it pretty well and that maybe an area in the future that we take a look at but I don't think the opportunity there is as big as the areas I just spoke about.
A really quick follow-up.
Is it more on the diamond side or is it across collections for the opportunities on the inventory? It's across the whole supply chain from rough diamond sourcing to finished product.
Okay.
Thank you very much and best of luck.
Thank you.
Operator maybe one more question.
And we have time for one more question and we will take our last question from Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Great thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about the guidance for the second half of 2016.
Is the return to gross in earnings a function of what are certainly easier comparisons or is there something else that you expect to drive that acceleration in the back half of the year? And then Ralph I know you've been looking at the efficiency of operations and aggregate.
You've talked about some of these things on this call today.
But also looking in particular the efficiency of the expenses with organization and how you can deliver the greatest impact for the expenses that you're incurring.
Can you give us just some sort of big picture takeaway from the last year as you've been looking at that and where are the big buckets if there are any or even several small buckets of potential expense efficiencies that you could realize in the next one to three years.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Kimberly.
I'll address first the question you had on the phasing of our guidance throughout the year.
In the back half of the year the improvement in the back half of the year is really driven by two things.
One we've sited we do have easier comparisons in the back half of the year but I think more importantly we are taking actions and we have been and we are taking actions to improve our self-growth performance and we're expecting some improvement on our self-growth trend and that's the principal driver of the improved various performance that we're projecting in the back half of the year.
A combination of our marketing and new product initiatives either really build over the course of the year and that's why we believe that we'll improve the earnings performance in the back half.
Okay.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session and I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Mark Aaron for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you.
So in closing we hope you find today's conference call informative.
We certainly also hope that you've enjoyed the addition of an annual Q&amp;A period on our year-end call.
A replay of today's call is available on our website or by dialing 888-203-1112 in the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and entering passcode 6324380.
Finally please note on your calendars that we expect to report first quarter results on May 25.
Thanks for listening.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.