Welcome to the VMware First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn today's meeting over to Mr.
Mike Haase Vice President of Investor Relations.
Welcome to VMware's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Paul Maritz our Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Peek our Chief Financial Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or an isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 30 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our first quarter quiet period begins at the close of business June 16 2011.
Also unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2010.
With that let me hand it over to Mark.
Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone.
The financial and business results of our first quarter of 2011 exceeded our expectations.
We achieved record revenue non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flow driven by strength in all geographies.
We also had success closing large Enterprise License Agreements during the quarter.
Total first quarter revenues increased 33% and license revenues increased 34%.
Our non-GAAP operating margin was 29.9%.
Trailing 12-month free cash flows were $1.3 billion an increase of 38% from a year ago.
The strength of our balance sheet is evident with cash and investments of $3.7 billion and unearned revenue of nearly $2 billion.
Customers continue to move along the virtualization journey and migrate from virtualizing their test and dev environments and simpler Tier 3 apps to more mission-critical applications including databases ERP systems e-mail and collaboration systems.
Virtualization is mainstream within data centers as a modern way of computing that enables business agility flexibility and continuity.
In the first quarter we released VMware vCenter Operations a new suite of management products and solutions that bring together performance capacity and configuration management capabilities.
Virtualization and cloud computing require a different approach to IT management where resources are pooled across multiple sources where provisioning in capacity are highly dynamic and where configurations are fluid.
We've been very pleased to see positive initial customer feedback for vC [vCenter] Operations.
The VMware service provider program continues to gain traction with over 3 500 partners.
Our partners include a cross-section of small medium and large service providers working with VMware to provide hosted IT services based on our infrastructure.
Related to VSPP [VMware Service Provider Program] is our vCloud Datacenter Services Program which enables service providers to stand up enterprise-class cloud offering that are compatible with our enterprise customers' virtualized data centers.
This program represents a higher level of service that is enterprise ready with specific security requirements audited and approved by VMware.
We most recently announced that SOFTBANK has joined the vCloud Datacenter Services Program.
This brings us now to seven large cloud service provider partners standardizing on the VMware cloud infrastructure stack including Colt Verizon Terremark SingTel Bluelock CSC [Computer Sciences Corporation] and now SOFTBANK.
And to further strengthen our cloud initiative on April 1 we welcomed the more than 300 people from EMC's Mozy and cloud services group.
This team will continue to run the Mozy service on behalf of EMC without interruption and will add its R&amp;D and product knowledge to VMware's engineering team as we collaborate to continue developing products that help our cloud service providers.
We expect Mozy to have little impact on our revenue or operating margins for Q2 and the remainder of 2011.
In the first quarter we introduced the first upsell option to VMware Go.
VMware Go is our hosted management offering for SMB customers to purchase additional management capabilities including patch and software updates.
At our VMware Partners' Exchange held in February we announced new specializations certifications solution competencies and toolkits designed to help partners deliver enterprise hybrid cloud solutions.
The event included 3 300 attendees and had 65 sponsors and exhibitors.
Paul will make a few comments later about Cloud Foundry our most recent announcement in the cloud platform-as-a-service arena.
We are very pleased with our start to 2011 and want to thank all of the people of VMware our partners and our customers.
Now I will walk you through the financial details.
Total revenues for the first quarter were $844 million an increase of 33% from a year ago or 34% on a constant currency basis.
The quarter was characterized by strong demand across our international markets.
Total international revenue represented a record 53% of total revenue.
The investments we have made and will continue to make in our international market expansion are clearly paying off.
License revenues were $419 million up 34% from last year driven by strong demand in our international markets and strengthen our ELA bookings during the quarter.
Enterprise License Agreements were 22% of total first quarter bookings and included five transactions of $10 million or more.
These transactions resulted in significant upside to our expected bookings entering the first quarter.
Blended vSphere ASPs were down slightly during the quarter reflecting continued interest in our SMB SKUs and higher discounts from the large ELAs.
In the first quarter we were pleased with the number of View desktop virtualization wins across geographies and verticals that exceeded 5 000 seats.
We also announced general availability of View 4.6 with the enhancement of remote access for PC-over-IP via VMware security server.
This feature enables simple secure remote connection and authentication to a desktop eliminating the need for a VPN [virtual private network].
Initial customer feedback for View 4.6 has been positive.
We are also beginning to see increased demand for our management and automation tools solutions such as vCloud Director Site Recovery Manager and vCenter Operations are seeing improved traction in the market.
The increased interest for our management tools is being driven by the buildout of private clouds within our customers' data centers.
U.S.
revenues increased 26% year-over-year to $400 million and international revenues were a record $444 million an increase of 40% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
While clearly there is still much uncertainty ahead we were particularly gratified by the resiliency of our people partners and customers in Japan where we achieved record Q1 bookings as Japan closed its fiscal year-end.
Software maintenance and support revenue was $364 million up 36% compared to last year.
Customers continued to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased illustrating a strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their datacenter architecture and longer-term private and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional services revenue was $61 million up 13% from last year.
The increase was driven primarily by incremental services revenue from our M&amp;A activity.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $2 billion up 6% sequentially and 46% from a year ago.
The complexity of our unearned revenue has increased over time as a result of acquisitions and expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternatives.
Over 80% of our unearned revenue is recognized ratably with the passage of time and includes primarily maintenance bookings in addition to a growing amount of ratably recognized license bookings.
In addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training and is recognized as the services are delivered.
And finally just under 10% of unearned revenue is software license revenue which is recognized upon product delivery or product releases.
We are pleased with our financial results and operational progress.
We benefited from stronger-than-expected ELA demand particularly among large transactions during the quarter.
We also benefited from a strong quarter by our OEM partners as most of their Q4 shipments were recognized in the first quarter.
We continue to remain cautious about the macroeconomic environment and the volatility we are observing in the world economy and individual sovereign nations.
With this backdrop we expect second quarter revenues to be within a range of $860 million and $880 million or a year-over-year growth of between 28% and 31%.
For the year we are expecting total revenue of between $3.55 billion and $3.65 billion or growth of 24% to 28% compared to 2010.
Given the strong first quarter results from our OEM partners and the large ELAs we do not expect sequential growth in license revenues in Q2 over Q1 nor in Q3 over Q2.
I'll now provide some details on our operating expenses.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are in a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our Investor Relations website.
Our Q1 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was a record $252 million or 29.9% of revenue compared with 29.6% in Q4 2010 and 27.6% in Q1 2010.
The increase was primarily driven by operating leverage on our revenue growth.
We ended the quarter with approximately 9 400 employees up nearly 400 from the beginning of the year.
And as I mentioned earlier in April we added over 300 people from Mozy.
We're in a rapidly changing and dynamic environment and we see much opportunity in the adjacencies to the vSphere platform so you should expect that we will continue to hirer at brisk pace throughout 2011 to take advantage of this opportunity.
First quarter R&amp;D expenses increased sequentially $9 million to $152 million or 18% of revenues as compared with 19.5% a year ago.
Sales and marketing expenses for the first quarter were $277 million or 32.9% of revenues compared with 31.6% a year ago.
Sequentially sales and marketing decreased in dollars and as a percentage of revenue largely due to lower variable compensation.
G&amp;A expenses declined $6 million sequentially to $58 million or 6.8% of revenue compared to 9.1% a year ago.
The sequential decline was largely due to reduced corporate expenses.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.48 a share on 429 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 20%.
The GAAP tax rate was just below that at 19.4%.
We continue to expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 20% for 2011 and the GAAP tax rate is not expected to be materially different than the non-GAAP tax rate.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Mike disclosed at the start of the call we expect our non-GAAP operating margin for the second quarter to be between 28% and 29% and the full year 2011 to be between 28.5% and 29.5%.
The GAAP operating margins for the second quarter and full year 2011 are expected to be approximately 11 to 14 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
Although there is opportunity to expand margins at this level of scale we fundamentally believe it is the wrong approach and are building our investment model assuming we will rapidly continue to hire high-quality engineering talent and to expand our international market opportunity.
We see a lot of very strong long-term growth opportunities and need to invest to take advantage of them.
As a reminder we will record a $56 million gain from Verizon's acquisition of Terremark in Q2.
This gain will be classified as other income in the Q2 income statement.
Now onto our balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Our balance sheet remains strong as cash and short-term investments increased $300 million sequentially to $3.7 billion.
During the quarter we used nearly $200 million for M&amp;A capital spending and our share repurchase program.
During the quarter we announced board authorization to repurchase up to an additional $550 million of our Class A common stock through 2012.
The objective of the VMware repurchase program is to partially offset the dilution from employee stock issuance.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for the capitalization of software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock compensation were $501 million for Q1 and $1.5 billion for the trailing 12 months.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefits because it converts to cash or reduces our tax liability.
Free cash flows for the quarter were $473 million and $1.3 billion for the trailing 12 months.
Free cash flow per diluted share was $1.10 for the quarter and $3.16 for the trailing 12 months.
As we have mentioned free cash flow per share can be volatile in the short-term so we believe looking at it over a trailing 12 months is a better indicator of progress.
The fully diluted share count increased to 429 million shares for the first quarter.
We expect our share count will be within a range of 430 million and 440 million shares for the balance of the year.
To summarize we're very pleased with our execution and the great first quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making the key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth and free cash flow per share.
Paul will now make a few remarks before we take questions.
Thanks Mark.
As Mike described we had an excellent quarter.
As you may recall Q4 2010 was a particularly strong quarter so we had concerns that demand may have been pulled forward out of Q1.
But it's particularly satisfying to see the momentum continued bolstered by several large deals.
All of this underscores the importance that companies place on transforming their infrastructure through virtualization and the confidence they have in our products.
I'd also like to take this opportunity to publicly commend the fortitude and dedication of our employees in Japan who have been operating in what is obviously a very difficult environment.
I want to say a few words now about the investments that we're making in 2011.
We believe that the IT continents really are shifting driven by technologies like virtualization and the cloud.
The first aspect of this change is infrastructure-level transformation.
Our offerings here are anchored by four key products: vSphere itself for the coordination and automation of computer storage and networking; vShields for virtualized Edge functions and security; vCloud Director to enable cloud functionality; and the vCenter Operations Suite for management.
This last product was introduced in the first quarter and we are very pleased with its initial reception.
Now that we have these four anchor infrastructure-level products in place we will continue to invest and update them as a family going forward.
These products will be used for both internal private clouds and by our vCloud service provider partners and their public clouds.
This will enable our customers to have the flexibility to move workloads between their private clouds and the choice of public clouds operated by some of the most respected names in the industry.
We believe that this hybrid approach will be the way that most enterprises adopt cloud computing.
Beyond the transformation of infrastructure we believe that there is a comparable modernization and transformation of application development that is beginning.
This is centered around the new programming frameworks and new data fabrics.
As you know we already made investments in this space starting with the acquisition of SpringSource in 2009.
Last week we took another major step forward with the announcement of Cloud Foundry which is the industry's first open multi-cloud PaaS or Platform-as-a-Service layer.
This largely internally developed layer broadens our support to other modern programming frameworks such as Rails and node as well as provides portability across clouds.
Released under an open-source license we believe that it'd be very attractive to developers and to the industry in general.
Indeed since last Tuesday when we announced it over 13 000 developers have requested to join our trial service at cloudfoundry.com.
Developers are the vanguard of IT so appealing to their needs is critically important.
Finally we agree with Steve Jobs when he says that we're entering the post-PC era.
IT will now have to deliver applications and capabilities to an increasingly heterogeneous world full of new tablets and smartphones.
To do this in a secure and manageable way presents new challenges and opportunities.
Our View desktop virtualization product line will be important to enabling IT to support these new devices in an evolutionary way.
Building our view we will invest in new capabilities to enable IT to focus on managing people rather than managing physical devices.
Taken together we believe that these investments position us well for the future both the nearer- and the longer-term.
With that we'll now open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Brent Thill of UBS.
Mark just on the five deals over $10 million.
Can you just give us a sense of -- is that all recognized upfront or are some of those deals spread over time? And for Paul if you can just talk a little bit about Cloud Foundry and the impact to your business over time.
I realize it's early but how do you expect that to contribute to the model? Yes Brent.
The large Enterprise license Agreements that we closed during the quarter that have a combination of attributes to them some multi-year maintenance as we've had a history of in the past some PSO and of course license bookings both from vSphere and from our other products.
And so it's not easy to characterize just how they fell exactly in the quarter but they all contributed to our strong bookings for the quarter.
Following up on the Cloud Foundry question.
As I said Cloud Foundry is first and foremost about appealing to developers.
And if we believe that we can get their support then that will open up opportunities to sell both infrastructure data fabrics and management products down the line.
So certainly for 2011 it's really about building momentum in the developer space and we hope that that will pay off in 2012 and beyond.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Derek Bingham of Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on Brent's questions first.
You talked a little bit Mark I think last quarter about the ELA renewal cycle and kind of the base of those renewals deteriorating as we get through the second half of the year.
I wonder if you could just update us on what you're seeing in terms of the pipeline of ELA renewals? Sure.
We're beginning to -- we started the ELA process in earnest in the summer of 2007.
So -- and typically they’re three years.
So we're beginning to go through an annual cycle of having seen some of the early renewals.
To date we are still very pleased that the large number of accounts that are renewing.
It's very rare that we don't get a renewal at all of an ELA.
And typically when we don't get a renewal it's due to either a government contract in which the code has been frozen or some account that's been merged at some other point in time.
That said we -- the bookings continue to be 100% or thereabouts of the aggregate.
It's still part of our pipeline for the year.
Okay.
Just -- my follow up is on the management tools.
It sounds like that it's becoming a bigger focus for you as you get ready to start marketing your anchor products more aggressively.
My question is related to kind of the approach you're taking with the sales force.
I think they've all got big demands on them just fulfilling the interest in the core vSphere.
And can you just update us on your approach with the sales force if you have some specialization there.
If it’s kind of your rank-and-file that will be selling the management tools as well? And is it kind of -- is it going to take some time to get them trained and able to sell that kind of stuff as you get kind of deeper in the weeds of infrastructure? This is Paul.
In the acquisitions that we make we look at those in two categories.
There's some acquisitions that we believe are very well aligned and closely adjacent to the value propositions that our sales force is currently selling today.
And there are others that are longer term and further apart.
And for those latter ones we maintain a separate specialized sales force.
In the case of management we do believe that it is actually closely adjacent to the value propositions that our current sales force in general is selling.
So for instance the vCenter Operations Suite that we introduced this quarter.
We've trained all our sales force on that and we believe that that's actually quite a doable task for them to take on that challenge.
Now that being said this is the beginning of the journey and we're growing off a small base here.
So we still have a lot to do.
Okay.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks Mark.
Our next question comes from John DiFucci of JPMorgan.
Mark first question has to do with your guidance for license growth over the next couple of quarters.
You said there'd be no -- not to assume sequential license growth in Q2 and Q3.
I can understand Q2 given this quarter sort of bounced around in the past and you had these big deals this quarter.
But with Q3 just wondering is this sort of prudent conservatism or does this go back to the ELA renewals? I'm just curious as to why -- because typically you do see a little bit of sequential bump into Q3? Yes and John there's a combination of factors.
The first when you look at unearned license revenue that we had in the first quarter it's made up of a combination of ratable unearned and unearned based on product deliveries.
And during the first quarter we had a benefit of about 3% to 4% of our total license bookings coming from the unearned net going down.
When we guided in January for the full year we indicated that we thought license bookings for Q2 and Q3 would be very comparable.
And we just haven't moved off of that view at this point given the seasonality in Europe and that more and more of our bookings are coming from -- are international markets.
Okay.
And just a quick follow up you saw a sequential bump in deferred revenue.
I think it was up 6% sequentially.
I think that's the best sequential bump in the first quarter you've seen in the last three years.
Just curious did you see more maintenance catch-up than you thought you would in this quarter? I know you've talked about that in the past and how you saw some benefit last year.
But you have sort of guided us that you thought that that benefit would start to wane.
And I guess how should we think about that going forward? Yes it -- we actually -- it was one of the surprises in the quarter is that back in January I had said that I believe that back maintenance or the catch-up maintenance would actually be down year-over-year and in fact it was up slightly.
I continue to believe that the back maintenance will decline because of our systems and processes have gotten better so that customers don't fall out of maintenance.
And so it's not a significant upside to the rest of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Nice job.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Walter Pritchard of Citigroup.
I'm wondering just to follow on on the management side if you could talk a bit about sort of what type of uplift do you see either per server? I know it's sold per VM but just so if you could sort of just scratch it up to per server or per unit of sale? What type of uplift do you see when a customer sort of buys off on all the management tools versus a customer who just wants the base offering with that management tools? It's too early -- this is Paul.
It's too early -- or too early to give you a numerical quantification of that.
Increasingly as you said we're looking at licensing this high-level products on a per virtual machine basis rather than a per physical server basis.
And when we get further into this journey we'll be able to characterize that for you.
And then Mark just on the Mozy I think I understand sort of the spirit of the deal.
I'm wondering if you could just talk to us about any financial impact especially on the expenses; I know you’d think on the expenses but it sounds like you're reimbursed by EMC.
How will we see that on the numbers as we see that reported next quarter? Yes the revenue that we received from EMC will be an offset to the cost so it'll be netted.
So we won't be reporting revenue from EMC and supporting the Mozy backup service.
And then there'll be an increment -- some small levels of dilution to our operating margin as a result for the work that we do around the cloud application.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And our next question comes from Adam Holt of Morgan Stanley.
I'm going to go back to the larger deals in the quarter then first of all congratulation on a good Q1 but if you look at the larger deals was there anything from a common denominator perspective that that was consistent across those deals? And as you look into the guidance for the second quarter does your guidance reflect any kind of large deals like that? Or would $10 million plus deals typically be stripped out of the forecast? Adam it's Mark.
Between the five deals they were actually all a little bit different both from geography perspective and from a use case.
We had one transaction in which we had limited use case for vSphere and the customer came back to us and wanted to expand for a full use case for Enterprise Plus.
We have a hoster in the deal.
We have a large multinational.
And so they all have a little bit different flavor and came from different geographies but -- though they were primarily built around their next step on the journey and the fact that they had been heavy users of VMware and vSphere before and we're building out their cloud applications.
And just the part on the forward look what the pipeline looks like with respect to larger deals like that? And what's embedded in guidance? Sure.
We -- day one of the quarter in fact the last day of the previous quarter we begin our forecast call process and so we build into the pipeline what we think is going to happen from an Enterprise License Agreement.
There are always a few transactions that are counted in the forecast early in the quarter.
And it's built -- so it is built into our guidance.
And they don't come as complete surprises as you would imagine with that level.
That said it take the sales cycle on these larger transactions can sometimes pass several quarters.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Heather Bellini of ISI.
I have two questions.
The first one Mark is just -- first one for is you the second one is for Paul.
Last quarter you mentioned that you had I think you said about 20% of the ELAs didn't renew in Q4.
You thought you might not renew a small percentage of them.
But I'm wondering how much of those spilled over into Q1 or are some of those still outstanding? And then my second question is related to Cloud Foundry.
And I'm just wondering Paul if you could talk to us a little bit about how this would contrast with your VMforce partnership? Sure Heather.
This is Mark.
On the ELA renewals you end up having really a waterfall in any given quarter of transactions where an ELA in fact expiring.
And as we're negotiating it might fall over into a subsequent quarter.
But at the same time that's offset by ELAs that may be pulled forward a quarter or two.
And so I don't really think it's a significant factor as we look at our pipeline and overall fluctuations from quarter-to-quarter.
Okay great.
And Paul? Yes.
I may have misunderstood your question.
Do say -- did you say that we said that 20% of our ELAs did not renew? I thought that you had said on last quarter's call that about 80% of your ELAs for the back half had renewed and that you thought you have some spillover into this year.
So I went back to the transcript.
Yes.
It really ties more to which quarter -- to tying it directly to the ELAs as a percentage of sales for the second quarter.
And I thought it was timing issue that you guys brought up last quarter? And then Paul the question for you was just how should we think about Cloud Foundry? And how this contrasts your strategy here? How this works with your VMforce partnership? Okay.
It's quite simple.
VMforce will be a particular instantiation of Cloud Foundry here.
The whole point about Cloud Foundry is that we view that as being a multi-cloud layer and having released it on an open-source license.
Not only will you see us taking Cloud Foundry and using it in various instantiations but we're encouraging everyone else who would like to do so to do the same.
So we expect to see many instantiations of Cloud Foundry and VMforce is one of them.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
I couldn’t help but notice internationals got bigger than U.S.
and growing faster.
Not too often do you see that dynamic at this state of the game.
Just curious Paul if you could talk about it at a high level.
What exactly is driving that international acceleration off of a high base? And I guess also for anybody who wants to touch upon this how do you think server demand is shaping up? I think people are concerned about the slowdown in server shipments this year? What are you seeing with your customers? And what's your prognostication for server unit growth rate transition? That's it for me.
I’ll let Mark comment as well.
If that -- if you go back a while I used to like to joke that VMware was an English-speaking company and that the bulk of our revenues if you go back three years came from North America or United Kingdom or Australia.
And we were significantly under penetrated compared to other enterprise software vendors.
And what you're really seeing is a reversion to the norm here.
So rather than something unusual happening what as you see us as a big group taking on more of the profile of what you’d expect out of a -- in a significant enterprise software vendor.
And as Mark said we've invested in disproportionately invested in international geographies over the last two years.
We kept that investment going right through the recession.
And we're now seeing the results of that.
And I just would echo Paul's comments.
We possibly disproportionately under invested in international several years ago and it's been a real focus of ours over the last few years.
And you can see that in the sales and marketing as the percentage of revenue line is that -- it's taken some time but we're now beginning to see the fruits of those investments.
And just finally if you could -- there's some talk of federal government IT spending freezes.
How does that pertain to VMware? How are you going to be making it out with respect to the spending pressure for that? I think that's the reason for some of our caution in our guidance here.
We're seeing a lot -- there are a lot -- a bunch of uncertainties in our macro picture which could include cutbacks on government spending.
But I don't think we have a better crystal ball than anyone else there.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Next question comes from Phil Winslow off Credit Suisse.
I just want to dig a little bit on this the ELAs that you signed during the quarter those five large deals.
Just trying to get a sense in terms of your Q2 guidance just sort of how much showed up on those in license revenues during Q1? And also just a high-level question in terms of what you're seeing turning to geographically between the Americas and EMEA? And just sort of any difference in sort of just the tone of business or any changes in tone of business there? Sure.
Well Phil as we guide -- when you just look at the change in January and the guidance that we gave for Q1 you would have gotten into the 390s or so in total license bookings for the quarter.
We reported 419 and part of that is made up of the composition of deferred unearned license revenue and part of it is made up from the strong quarter that we had in bookings including the very large ELAs.
And so it's somewhat of a mix.
It certainly had upside to the quarter which is one of the reasons as we look at the guide on license for Qs 2 and 3 we see them as being very comparable to Q1.
And then just from a geographic perspective any sort of changes in tone of business U.S.
versus EMEA kind of comparing the two? Not particularly we continue to be cautious about the macroeconomic conditions around the world.
Japan had its quarter end.
And in spite of everything that was going on in the country we delivered a very successful quarter.
But we're cautious in that part of the world for Q2.
And then as we look at Europe we have sovereign nation concerns but as to review what Paul said we don't have a better crystal ball than anyone else.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
We're going to take two more questions please.
Thank you.
Our innext question comes from Tim Klasell of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Yes first question the DSOs picked up a little bit compared to the couple of prior Q1s.
Can you just talk about the shape of the quarter? Or is that just due to the large deal? It's partly due to the large transactions.
We actually had one of the bellwethers internally for us is that this is the first quarter that we'd collected in cash more than $1 billion on our receivables and so it was a really strong collections quarter.
But our terms are typically 30 to 60 days or so and we are backend loaded.
And we had large transactions so our receivables are up.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay good.
And then my second question has to do with the ASPs.
You mentioned that -- I can understand the strength on the SMB which would drive down ASPs a bit.
But on the ELA's what was driving that? Was it just greater volume discounts or maybe you can walk us through the dynamics on the higher end of the ELAs? Yes.
When we calculate ASPs we do it on a weighted average.
And so it's based purely if you're buying one unit or if you're buying hundreds of units as you might do in an Enterprise License Agreement we treat them all the same and so the more that the quarter is affected by larger deals there tend to be higher discounts in ELAs.
And then just with respect to the -- our pricing and packaging mix and the SMB when we're selling Essentials or Essentials Plus far lower average selling prices.
And so to the extent that we have a success there the overall average ASP will decline.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great great.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from Robert Breza of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you comment on how you see your 4 anchor products maybe today from a mix perspective.
And then maybe how you think about maybe ending the year which products will be growing faster? And maybe just kind of walk us through how we should think about that product mix shifting from those 4 anchor products? Okay.
This is Paul.
I mean clearly vSphere is our dominant product today and will continue to be our dominant product into the foreseeable future.
What we are trying to do is to encourage more of our customers to adopt the other 3 products vShield vCloud Director and vCenter Operations.
And as I said earlier it's too early to give you a quantitative goal there.
But we are -- and as I said earlier as well we're encouraging our sales force to take it is an objective to equip the customers with all 4 products.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Okay.
Great that concludes the call.
Thank you very much.
[Audio Gap] Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the VMware Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I will now turn today's meeting over to Mr.
Mike Haase Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Haase you may begin.
Welcome to VMware's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Paul Maritz our CEO; and Mark Peek our CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for or an isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software acquisition-related items and the gain from the sale of our investment in Terremark.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 30 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our third quarter quiet period begins at the close of business September 16 2011.
For your planning purposes VMworld the leading virtualization and cloud infrastructure event of the year will be held in Las Vegas from August 29 through September 1.
As part of VMworld we will be hosting our Analyst Day on Tuesday August 30.
Finally unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2010.
With that let me hand it over to Mark.
Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone.
The financial and business results for our second quarter clearly exceeded our expectations.
We achieved record revenue non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP operating cash flows driven by strength across geographies and record ELA bookings as a percentage of total bookings.
The quarter also benefited from a sequential decline in unearned license revenue.
Now for the financial highlights.
Total second quarter revenues increased 37% year-over-year and license revenues increased 44%.
Our non-GAAP operating margin was a record 31.6% and benefited from the strong sequential increase in license revenue.
We expect margins to return to below 30% in the third quarter.
Trailing 12-month free cash flows were $1.6 billion an increase of 56% from a year ago.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments of $3.7 billion and unearned revenues of $2.1 billion.
Our results speak to the value of our products.
vSphere is the most trusted widely deployed virtualization platform in the world.
Last week we announced vSphere 5 and a comprehensive suite of cloud infrastructure technologies to not only help customers virtualize their cloud applications but also help them build and operate modern data centers with cloud architectures.
With the introduction of VMware vSphere 5 VMware is evolving the product's licensing to lay the foundation for customers to adopt a more cloud-like IT cost model based on consumption and value rather than physical components and capacity.
We are extending our focus beyond delivering virtual infrastructure with vSphere to complete cloud infrastructure suite.
We expect these new releases to become generally available in Q3.
With nearly 200 new and enhanced capabilities vSphere 5 will continue to set the standard in virtualization delivering better application performance and availability for business-critical applications while automating the management of an increasingly broad pool of data center resources.
Paul will speak more to vSphere 5 and cloud infrastructure technologies.
As I mentioned during last quarter's call we integrated more than 300 people from EMC's Mozy and Cloud Services group in April to further strengthen our cloud initiative.
We also closed the acquisitions of SlideRocket SocialCast and Shavlik during the quarter and welcomed about 200 new employees from these acquisitions to VMware.
Finally we announced the acquisition of Digital Fuel which closed in early July.
We're very pleased with our results for the first half of 2011 and want to thank all the people of VMware our partners and our customers.
Now I'll walk you through the financial details.
Total revenues for the second quarter were $921 million an increase of 37% from a year ago or 35% on a constant currency basis.
The quarter was characterized by strong demand in the U.S.
and across our international markets.
License revenues were $465 million up 44% from last year driven largely by strong global demand for vSphere record ELA bookings as a percent of total bookings including several deals that renewed early and a net decline of $11 million on earned license revenue.
License growth on a constant currency basis was 40%.
Enterprise License Agreements exceeded 25% of total second quarter bookings and no transactions exceeded $10 million.
We were pleased to see a healthy mix in the quarter from renewals as well as new ELAs.
In addition we continue to see stronger demand for our end user and management products as customers renew their ELAs.
Blended ASPs increased during the quarter driven primarily by good discounting discipline in the field and higher ELA volumes which tend to include our highest end SKU Enterprise Plus.
Our end-user computing business continues to progress well.
In the second quarter we were pleased to have a solid number of View desktop virtualization wins and follow-on businesses across geographies and verticals including our largest View deal to date with a very large North American retail pharmacy chain and a major mobile carrier in China.
We're also seeing continued traction for our management products including vCloud Director and vCenter Operations.
Much of the increased interest for our management tools is being driven by the build out of private clouds within our customers' data centers.
U.S.
revenues increased 35% year-over-year to $450 million.
International revenues were $471 million an increase of 38% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Demand in our Asia Pacific region was particularly strong led by year-over-year growth in Australia Japan and China.
We're very pleased with our progress in growing our global market presence.
The investments we have made and will continue to make in our international market expansion are clearly paying off.
Software maintenance and support revenue was $386 million up 33% compared to last year.
Customers continued to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased illustrating their strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their data center architecture and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional services revenue was $70 million up 17% from last year.
The increase was driven primarily by our continued M&amp;A activity and a higher attach rate for professional services with large deals.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $2.1 billion up 5% sequentially and 41% from a year ago.
The complexity of our unearned revenue has increased over time as a result of acquisitions and expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternatives.
Over 80% of our unearned revenue represents software maintenance that will be recognized ratably with the passage of time.
Approximately 12% of unearned revenue is software license revenue which will be recognized either ratably upon product delivery or upon product release.
In addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training which is recognized as the services are delivered.
Although we are pleased with our record second quarter financial results our license revenue growth clearly benefited from a good number of ELAs that renewed early.
We will not have this benefit in the third quarter and would expect ELA bookings to decline as a percentage of total bookings.
And with our recent announcements of vSphere 5 and cloud infrastructure suite there's also the potential for short-term disruption in the sales process and close rates as our extensive set of ecosystem partners begin to go to market transition.
In addition while the third quarter is traditionally strong for the U.S.
Federal Government growing uncertainty related to the federal budget has caused us to revise our earlier estimates downward for this sector.
With this backdrop we expect third quarter revenues to be within a range of $915 million and $940 million or a year-over-year growth of between 28% and 32%.
License revenues in the third quarter are anticipated to be down 5% to 10% sequentially from the very strong second quarter.
For the year we are expecting total revenue of between $3.65 billion and $3.75 billion or growth of 28% to 31% compared to 2010.
I'll now provide some details on our operating expenses.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our IR website.
Our Q2 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was a record $291 million or 31.6% of revenue compared with 29.9% in Q1 2011 and 27.7% in Q2 2010.
The increase was primarily driven by operating leverage on our license revenue growth.
Our non-GAAP results exclude the $56 million gain we realized from Verizon's second quarter acquisition of Terremark.
During the second quarter we added over 1 000 employees approximately half through acquisitions and Mozy.
We ended the quarter with approximately 10 400 employees up 1 400 from the beginning of the year.
We expect to continue to hire at a brisk pace in the second half of 2011.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.55 a share on 430 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 20%.
The GAAP tax rate was 10.6%.
We continue to expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 20% for 2011.
The GAAP tax rate is expected to be 4 to 6 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP rate.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Mike disclosed at the start of the call we expect our operating margins in Q3 to decline sequentially to between 28% and 29%.
The decline is primarily as a result of increased expenses associated with our increased headcount and recent campus expansion.
For the full year 2011 we expect the non-GAAP operating margin to approach 30%.
The GAAP operating margins for the third quarter and full year 2011 are expected to be approximately 11 to 14 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
Although there is opportunity to expand margins at this level of scale we fundamentally believe it is the wrong approach at this time and are building our investment model assuming we will continue to hire high-quality engineering talent and rapidly expand our international market opportunity.
The opportunities we are seizing and the investments they require are not trivial.
Expect us to continue on a rapid M&amp;A and hiring pace which can cause lumpiness in our quarterly financial results.
Now on to our balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $3.7 billion.
During the quarter we used nearly $600 million in aggregate for M&amp;A routine CapEx the purchase of property related to our Palo Alto campus expansion and our share repurchase program.
The expansion of our Palo Alto campus included $225 million for the acquisition of a land lease with Stanford with 70 acres which provides us the opportunity to add about 1 million square feet adjacent to our existing Palo Alto campus over time and as needed.
Our Palo Alto campus is now 100 acres and provides us with the necessary room to expand for the foreseeable future.
For your planning purposes the capital expenditures related to our campus expansion will be approximately $50 million in the second half of 2011.
This will be a multiyear project and we believe it is a great investment in one of the best locations for engineering and innovation in the world.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for capitalization of software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock compensation were $539 million during the second quarter and $1.8 billion for the trailing 12 months.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefits because it converts to cash or reduces our tax liability.
Free cash flows for the quarter were $443 million.
Total capital expenditures were $95 million of which $53 million was related to our campus expansion.
For the trailing 12 months free cash flows were $1.6 billion.
Free cash flow per diluted share was $1.03 for the quarter and $3.64 for the trailing 12 months.
As we have mentioned free cash flow per share can be volatile in the short term so we believe looking at it over a trailing 12-month period is a better indicator of progress.
As referenced earlier in the second half of 2011 free cash flows will be impacted by the planned $50 million in capital expenditures related to the design and renovation work related to our campus expansion.
The fully diluted share count increased to 430 million shares for the second quarter.
We expect our share count will be within a range of 430 million and 440 million shares for the balance of the year.
To summarize we are very pleased with our execution and solid second quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making the key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth and free cash flow per share.
Paul will now make a few remarks before we take questions.
Good afternoon.
I would like to give you an update on our product and M&amp;A activities over the previous quarter.
As Mark noted we took a big step forward with the release of vSphere 5 into production.
This is a major release in several dimensions.
In terms of vSphere itself the release provides major new functionality in terms of scale and automation.
To highlight just a few new features we can further scale to handle the heaviest workloads providing virtual machines with up to 1 terabyte of virtual memory and up to 32 virtual CPUs.
We could optimize storage usage and performance with the automatic and dynamic placement of virtual machines.
We have significantly improved the ability of vSphere to run workloads in a nonstop fashion and we've significantly improved the automatic installation and configuration of vSphere itself.
All of this is being done in partnership with a growing ecosystem of over 500 hardware and software partners who directly interact with and/or certify with vSphere.
Equally importantly we announced the creation of the industry's first complete cloud infrastructure suite comprising vSphere itself the vCenter Site Recovery Manager for cross data center business continuity vShield for virtualized security and edge functions vCenter Operations for modern infrastructure management and monitoring and vCloud Director for multi-tenant provisioning of resources policy setting and self-service.
The strengthening of vSphere will enable us to accelerate our customers on the journey to high levels of virtualization and the suite will allow us to amplify the value they derive from their virtualized infrastructure.
We've also increased our focus on SMB.
As part of vSphere 5 we'll be releasing a virtual storage appliance that will unlock many vSphere benefits for smaller customers who can't afford the cost or complexity of an external storage array.
We announced the acquisition of Shavlik Technologies who had been our partner in VMware Go which is our SMB-targeted online infrastructure services offering.
With the movement of the Mozy cloud storage service to VMware we can expect to be able to further strengthen our offerings in the SMB space.
For vSphere 5 we also announced that we are replacing the previous limits on the number of CPU cores per license and instead using as a metric of scale in value the total amount of virtual memory being actually used across an entire group of physical machines.
We believe that this is a better metric for the future as customers move to operating in a more cloud-like way.
Customers wish to pay for what they're actually using and have the license cost scale with actual load.
There has been a fair amount of debate and comment on this since we announced vSphere 5 last week.
A lot of it stems from the confusion that physical RAM which is fixed and which we do not use as a metric with pooled virtual memory that varies with load.
We believe under the new model 95% of our customers will see no change to their licensing costs.
It's only as customers move to very high levels of consolidations and start driving their infrastructure to high levels of utilization deriving the associated incremental value that licensing costs will commensurately scale.
We're working closely with our customers to explain this provide background material and get their feedback.
Moving up the stack in functionality we delivered 2 major releases in the dimension of our higher-level application platform and development capability.
We released vFabric 5 the next iteration of our middleware collection further optimizing it for the virtualized environment.
We released Cloud Foundry our next-generation environment for developing and deploying applications written to higher level frameworks in the cloud.
Both of these releases had been well-received by the developer community with over 25 000 developers signing up for Cloud Foundry.
In the area of end-user computing we continue to invest in our View VDI solution as Mark noted seeing success there.
We will have more news about View enhancements to share at VMworld in late August.
Further in the end user space customers are going to need solutions for securely providing capabilities to end-users in a world that is increasingly SaaS- mobile- and socially-oriented and is no longer solely dominated by Windows-based PCs.
In preparation for this we also announced the standing app of our Horizon App Manager service and the acquisition of social cost [ph] of SlideRocket all of which speak to providing new capabilities to fulfill and manage user needs in a post-PC world.
Finally I would like to note that vSphere 5 is our third release of vSphere since 2009.
And as a testament to the hard work and discipline of our development teams putting out these releases on schedule with high quality in partnership with a large ecosystem is no small achievement.
It is their effort that is enabling us to stay ahead of our competitors.
And with that we'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Adam Holt of Morgan Stanley.
My first question is about I guess the pull forward early renewal on some of the ELAs.
Why do you think that would happen? And do you think there might have been any forward buying in front of the 5 release? Adam we've seen a pattern of some forward buying on ELAs and ELA renewals in particular over the last several quarters.
But as we looked at the pipeline for Q3 we had anticipated some renewals that we thought would occur in the July August time frame that occurred at the end of June as we closed.
We don't think it's really fully related to the 5.0 release but there may have been some anticipation of it.
And just a quick follow-up on 5.
Historical releases have been in some cases pretty significant catalysts.
What impact do you expect 5 to have on license revenue over the next several quarters? And if the price increase is relatively small at the high end does that factor even at all into your forward thinking on guidance? As we look at 5.0 it's really quite similar to 4.0 with the exception that we haven't added a top end SKU with Enterprise Plus.
And so we really don't anticipate a big uplift particularly in the second half of 2011.
All of our customers who are current on maintenance are entitled to the 5.0 release.
And as a result we expect them to be in test in depth for some time before they put them into production.
And our next question comes from Israel Hernandez of Barclays Capital.
With respect to the ELA pool in the back half of 2011 is there anything we should be thinking about given that they will be anniversary-ing kind of the back half of the 2008 ELAs when the economy just started to fall apart? I'm just trying to get a sense for what that pipeline kind of shakes out in the renewal pool.
And also as a follow-up with respect to Europe obviously it's on everybody's minds.
Did you see any changes in linearity during the quarter? Seems like sales are pretty solid but just kind of curious as to what you saw towards the end of the quarter.
On the ELA pool it is the 3-year anniversary and our ELAs typically run on 3-year cycles.
We had some very large ELAs that closed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and we don't anticipate that they will be in for renewal in Q4 of 2008 so it's factored into our guidance.
And why we believe ELAs as a percentage of total bookings there will be some softness in the second half of 2011.
With respect to Europe and our linearity our quarters first of all continue to be very back-end loaded and particularly with the strong ELA performance in the second quarter.
This was even more so and we continue to be cautious on Europe given the economies and some of the sovereign nation concerns that exist; and the fact that in many cases the verticals are dominated by the governments.
If you think of healthcare and education in particular in Europe those are sectors that the government has a significant influence on.
And our next question comes from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
Paul I think you said on the vSphere 5 launch that you expect 50% of the workload to be virtualized by the end of this year.
But I'm wondering how should we look at that relative to the growth rate that the company has been putting on which has been very solid.
What does that mean in terms of the future growth opportunities in terms of magnitude that are still left ahead? Because the 50% cutoff seems to concern some of us just looking to get your comment on that.
And as relates to the guidance Mark do you -- it looks like talking about a few risk factors out there but your guidance actually sounds very good.
And I'm wondering if you can give us a little bit more color on those issues that you might be thinking about in your future as it relates to the pricing the channel training the macros et cetera? This is Paul kasha.
Actually what I said at the launch was with vSphere I believe the analyst figures is some time over the next 12 months or so we're likely to have cross over the 50% threshold.
That said we believe fundamentally good news.
Remember that we essentially drive our business out of the applications that are running on virtualized infrastructure.
And as such we have both the existing pool of applications to address as well as new applications that are coming into the pool all the time.
So that pool's not static the pool is itself growing.
Secondly with the introduction in particular of the suite now and other investments we are making we are seeking to not only accelerate our customers' investment in virtualization but actually amplify it by being able to offer additional functionality to enable them to get additional value out of their virtualized infrastructure so seeking to both accelerate and amplify.
Thirdly is that we believe that we still have untapped markets particularly in the SMB space and in new geographies of the world.
So it's for that reason that over the last as Mark said over the last several years we've been investing and will continue to invest in particular developing economies of the world and with the acquisitions and developments we've announced now increasing our focus on the SMB end of the market.
Mark? Kash on the guidance.
A quarter ago we had indicated that we believe the second and third quarters would be very close from a license bookings perspective.
But given the strong license bookings that we had in Q2 we just wanted to highlight a couple of items.
First we had -- deferred license revenue decreased by approximately $11 million.
We don't expect that to repeat itself in the third quarter.
We also had an FX tailwind of about $11 million in the quarter.
And so we've taken that out as we've factored in guidance.
We also as we looked at the pipeline and looked at the ELAs as they are playing through and then factored in that this is the U.S.
federal government's year end and that there are a lot of questions about the budget and the impact that the budget will have on IT spending internally we have as we've thought through the process we've brought down our expectation on the U.S.
government bookings.
Those are the major influences of our guidance.
But overall it's an increase in guidance modestly from where we were a quarter ago.
And our next question comes from Walter Pritchard of Citi.
Two questions.
Just Mark quickly on the FX.
Was that the sequential impact on FX the $11 million? Onto revenue? Yes.
Great.
And then Paul just on vFabric and vSphere v5 I'm just wondering you guys have sort of slowly but deliberately been moving towards trying to bring Java workloads onto the platform.
And I'm wondering with the confluence of vFabric a new release there as well as v5 I'm wondering if you could articulate sort of are you at a point now that you think you'll see an acceleration in Java workloads on the VMware platform? Well you're right that we're working towards that end and vFabric included as one of its features so optimizations for Java running on vSphere as well as we continue to invest in the Spring Framework and the combination of the Spring Framework with Cloud Foundry.
But I think it would be fair to say we're still plowing the ground there.
And we expect those investments to pay off well over the longer term but we're still in the development phases of the market.
And then just a quick follow-up on that I know you have a partnership with Salesforce.com in that area with VMforce and I'm not sure if it's your businesses to comment here if this is a Salesforce issue.
But I'm just wondering where that is from a rollout perspective and do you still expect now with the Cloud Foundry in the market to pursue that partnership on VMforce? We had always expected VMforce to be based on the technology that is inherent in Cloud Foundry.
And we do still expect to have a partnership and a tie between the Salesforce environment and the Cloud Foundry/VMforce environment.
So that's still on the plate.
And our next question comes from Phil Winslow of Crédit Suisse.
Just had a question on vCloud Director just what's been the feedback of that so far? And also just sort of the acceptance and kind of where that's standing in sort of just in relation to your expectations when it was launched? Well as part of the upcoming suite of products we're putting out we are revving vCloud Director so there'll be a new version of vCloud Director that will come out and will include some critical functions that we think that will open up additional markets in particular it will have a feature called link clones which is one of the key features that's in our very popular Lab Manager product which is used for test and development environments.
So we expect to see acceptance strong acceptance of vCloud Director with our private cloud solution particularly in the test and development arena where we've been missing this one feature to date.
At the same time our vCloud partnerships which are our partnerships with external service providers continue to grow at quite a strong rate and we have over a thousand service providers transacting all for VSPP license which is a special license that we provide towards service providers.
So we see a bright future for that product and we're continuing to basically enhance it and take it forward as part of the overall suite.
And our next question comes from Brett Thill of UBS.
Paul just on vSphere 5 what market do you think opens up a new opportunity for you? There seems to be a lot of new storage features.
Can you just talk through -- I know there's a lot of features but is there a particular market that you're excited that this really opens that wasn't available to you before? And I had a quick follow-up for Mark.
Well it's really a combination of opening up new use cases which then enables our customers that may take greater advantage of a virtualized approach to infrastructure across the board.
So what you've seen us do is strengthen features both at the very high end that allow us to as I said address Tier 1 mission-critical loads more effectively than we did in the past and at the low-end with the inclusion of things like the virtual Storage Appliance allows to scale down even smaller customer environments.
But across the board what we're trying to do is to increase the level of automation because at the end of the day beyond saving customers' capital expense the bigger goal is to save our customers' operational expense.
They fundamentally want infrastructure just to be something that figuratively speaking they can forget about.
And that's where we're working towards.
And Mark just back to Adam's question on early ELA renewal there are very few case studies we can find with software where people renew early.
And I guess one of the reasons could be potentially these customers are expanding their deployments quicker than they thought so they're going to just renew earlier because they're taking more products.
Is that a factor that played in where you saw them coming in and taking more so they just said "Hey we're going to renew early?" Brett it's a combination.
One is the need for additional licenses.
Second is just adding different products to their infrastructure as they move along the virtualization journey and so maybe have moved from test and dev to low production and now putting higher-level workloads into production and then using our management tools and then of course the sales effort on our part with the desktop products as well.
And our next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Paul I guess I was just wondering what a typical ELA looks like today for an advance customer versus maybe what the conversation you are having with them maybe last year the same type of customer and kind of how the conversation has changed and what the products that they're adding on might look like today versus a year ago? Well I think you can make really a dramatic difference.
You probably need to go back 2 years or 3 years.
2 to 3 years ago it was purely about vSphere as a technique of saving capital expense just putting the hypervisor on the hardware and getting greater server consolidation.
Now the discussion is much more about how do we do computing so we're -- as Mark said we're seeing an increasing percentage of our ELAs including the adjacent products the management suite the vFabric View et cetera so it reflects customers looking at this as rather than a simple ingredient into their environment it's actually looking at this as a foundation that they're going to do a bunch of things on.
And that's led to the dynamics that Mark was just talking about in terms of our ELAs.
And I guess then the follow-on to that would be when you think of the enhancements that you just announced last week do you feel like if you were to fast forward the clock a year that we'll be talking about the same thing that your expectations are is that there'll be even adding more adjacent products then maybe what they even would be today given what you've just put out? Well I certainly hope so.
And what we're trying to do is to make it easier for customers to do that.
We're trying to build out a suite of products so that they don't have to go through a very complex a la carte integration process that they can have key products for all the key major functions and get those easily.
And certainly as I said we're moving to both an accelerate and amplify strategy so we're trying to make it easier for customers to continue use virtualization to use their infrastructure more efficiently.
But later make it easy for them to buy the amplification dimension which is really about operational simplicity.
And our next question into comes from John DiFucci of JPMC [JPMorgan Chase].
Mark you mentioned the potential for disruption due to the consumption-based pricing that you just announced.
And Paul you made some comments about it and talked about the discussion that's happened since then which was just recently.
You also mentioned that 95% of customers should see no change in pricing.
But I just want to make sure I understand that because you say that as customers start to drive infrastructure to higher levels of utilization do you expect customers to benefit once that happens? In other words are they going to see lower pricing than they would have seen if they had CPU-based pricing or is that when they actually achieve that no change in pricing? Well this is Paul what we're trying to do is to gradually shift to using metrics that reflect the actual value and usage that the customer's getting out of the software as opposed to just how much hardware they packed underneath it.
And that is the whole direction that we believe the cloud in general is leading us that it's "pay by the drink" rather than necessarily having to overprovision everything upfront.
So we'd already announced a step at VMworld of last year when we announced that essentially our adjacent products and the management space et cetera would be based on a per virtual machine pricing.
And what we're now seeking to do is introduce that same concept into the core underlying vSphere itself.
So it's not so much that we're trying to necessarily give customers either a better or worse deal; we're trying to basically change the metric that we use to measure value.
And that make sense and if you listen as I know you do and I listen to customers too and they actually are looking for vendors such as yourself to go towards a consumption-based pricing model.
At the same time I've read some of the discussion out there on this point and there's a lot being said and a lot of it isn't positive.
And I'm just curious because when I do talk to people they want to see this kind of thing and it makes me think that they think they're just going to be paying more.
But your point about 95% are going to see no change I just wanted to make sure I understood that.
Are they going to see no change when they eventually get to these higher levels of utilization or are they going to see that rate from the start? From our calculations is that the thresholds we've set are such that most customers today with their workloads will see no change.
They won't require to pay us any more money.
At the high end of the market where people move to really squeezing every last drop out of their environments and getting very high levels of utilization out of the infrastructure that's when the pricing will start to scale up.
It's our belief that that is actually a fair bargain to make because they'll only encounter that once they really start to get value out of the whole approach of a cloud-based computing model.
That makes sense.
Just one quick one for Mark.
Just to follow up to [indiscernible] question Mark on EMEA.
And you said business was strong across all geos but you see international I think grew 38% versus U.S.
35%.
And you actually called out APAC as being particularly strong.
Can you break out EMEA for us on a growth rate or even roughly break it out within international? We don't break it out as a separate segment so that you're not caught in the cycle of calling it out each quarter.
But EMEA had a quarter that was very close to where we had planned maybe actually even a bit pull ahead on the ELA front.
We just have broader macro concerns around some of the sovereign nation issues that have been frequently in the news.
Our next question comes from Robert Breza of RBC.
LLC</strong> Mark can you comment on your talk about the market transition as being a risk? I would think with the ELA and the strength you're seeing on the ELA side the market transition would be a little bit alleviated for customers.
But can you kind of talk to us on how you see that concern and what you're doing maybe to mitigate it? Well part of the shift in the license pricing is that we have to train our ecosystems.
We're a highly leveraged business.
We still do over 75% of our sales on an indirect basis.
And so as we -- we're not only training our own direct field and sales staff but also training our partners and our customers.
And as there has been some debate and discussion about the pricing and shifting from a per processor model with core limitations to a virtual memory we just anticipate that it's going to take us some time to work through that transition.
Our next question comes from Gregg Moskowitz of Cowen.
LLC</strong> With vSphere 5 the pricing for Essentials Plus will be I believe I think $1 000 higher per CPU than it was under vSphere 4.1.
Clearly that would seem to reflect a lot of optimism around the SMB segment.
But if you could perhaps speak to your expectations around buying behavior in the SMB as well as elasticity of demand and the value profit you have there that would be helpful.
Well as I said earlier we've been gratified by the success that we've seen with vSphere Essentials clearly delivering a lot of value to customers.
And with the new features coming in we think that the price is justified.
LLC</strong> Maybe just a quick follow-up for Mark.
Your sales and marketing costs went up much less sequentially in Q2 than it did in 2009 and 2010 even though generally you had a bigger jump in license revenues and bookings.
Just was wondering why that was the case.
I'm sorry Greg was that the sequential change or the? LLC</strong> Correct Mark.
Sequential.
Well part of it is just I think a better balance in the quota setting that we did during the quarter and making sure that we were fairly compensating our reps across the overall distribution and not having sort of the high overperformance in smaller subsectors.
And that's really been the primary driver.
And then also looking at sales and marketing costs on the marketing side and how we spread those out throughout the year and that we're in a better rhythm I believe on our sales and marketing efforts.
And our last question will come from Michael Turits of Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> You talked about the ELA pool at the end of the year.
Can you just review what you think happens in terms of the pool or backlog of ELA as it gets to the end of the year? And if does go down into next year and there are fewer ELA renewals what's the impact? Is there potential impact on cash flows since those term lengths tend to be longer than average maintenance contracts? Yes if you go back in time and we've been disclosing our ELAs as a percentage of total bookings so you can get a general idea as to the size of those pools on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
And as with many in the industry and really across the world Q4 of 2008 was difficult but then led into a very challenging Q1 of 2009.
And so you can get some general sense as to the ELAs the dollar value of the ELAs that will renew in those periods.
We are generally collecting cash within 60 to 90 days after the ELA has closed so there's also a bit of a lag there.
So there will be some impact on cash flows out through at least the second quarter of 2012.
Inc.</strong> I guess my question is less on collections that are on term length because I think maybe I'm wrong but I think the term length tends to be longer and is paid upfront on ELAs than on non-ELAs.
Yes the average term the average maintenance length across all licenses sold is 24 months and we require 1 year with each license sold regardless of the channel.
For ELAs it tends to be 3 years.
Inc.</strong> And if I could just have a follow-up after that.
You talked about obviously there's a lot more being done outside of vSphere.
It's a really really big range of products.
Is there any way we can begin to quantify how big a piece of the non-vSphere products are taking up in terms of bookings or product? Well again as it really relates to overall bookings vSphere and the suite of products around vSphere are a significant majority of our business and we're not yet at the place where we need to break out individual layers as segments.
Okay thanks everyone.
And we'll look forward to seeing you at VMworld.
Thank you for participating.
Welcome to the VMware Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the meeting over to Mr.
Mike Haase Vice President of Investor Relations.
Welcome to VMware's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Paul Maritz our CEO and Mark Peek our CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or an isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 30 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our fourth quarter quiet period begins at the close of business December 16 2011.
Finally unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2010.
With that let me hand it over to Mark.
Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone.
The financial and business results for our third quarter were once again very strong.
We achieved record revenue and free cash flows driven by strength across our product offerings.
We successfully launched vSphere 5 as well as 11 new additional products and services.
We hosted over 19 000 registered attendees at VMworld Las Vegas.
And beginning this week we will host more than 20 000 customers and partners internationally at VMworld Europe and our Asia Pacific and Japan vForum events.
Now for the financial highlights.
Total third quarter revenues increased 32% year-over-year and license revenues increased 29%.
Our non-GAAP operating margin was 30.3%.
Trailing 12 month free cash flows were $1.8 billion an increase of 72% from a year ago.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments of $4 billion and unearned revenues of $2.2 billion.
Our results speak to the value of our products.
vSphere is the most trusted widely deployed virtualization platform in the world.
During the third quarter we launched vSphere 5 and a comprehensive suite of cloud infrastructure technologies to not only help customers virtualize their application portfolio but also help them build and operate modern data centers with cloud architectures.
With nearly 200 new and enhanced capabilities vSphere 5 continues to raise the bar and set the standard in virtualization delivering better application performance and availability for business-critical applications while automating the management of an increasingly broad pool of data center resources.
We also expanded our end user computing strategy to help IT organizations empower more agile productive and connected enterprise.
View 5 delivers new levels of innovation and simplicity with protocol enhancements advanced 3D graphics scalable unified communications and integrated persona management.
During the quarter we closed the acquisitions of Digital Fuel and PacketMotion and welcomed over 100 new employees from those companies to VMware.
We are very pleased with our results for the third quarter of 2011 and want to thank all of the people of VMware our partners and our customers.
Now I'll walk you through the financial details.
Total revenue for the third quarter was $942 million an increase of 32% from a year ago or 30% on a constant currency basis.
The quarter was characterized by strong demand in our Asia Pacific markets and seasonal strength with the U.S.
Federal Government.
License revenues were $444 million up 29% from last year driven largely by strong global demand for vSphere and our management tool solutions.
License growth on a constant currency basis was 25%.
Enterprise License Agreements were 22% of total third quarter bookings and included two transactions in excess of $10 million.
We were pleased to see a healthy mix in the quarter from renewals as well as new ELAs.
In addition we continue to see stronger demand for our end user computing and management products as customers renew their ELAs.
Blended vSphere ASPs increased slightly during the quarter driven primarily by good discounting discipline in the field and a higher mix of enterprise SKUs.
View 5 was released during the third quarter and initial customer feedback has been positive.
We were pleased with a number of competitive wins and with a follow-on business across geographies and vertical markets.
We're also seeing continued traction for our management products including Site Recovery Manager vCloud Director and vCenter Operations.
Much of the increased interest for our management tools is being driven by the build out of private clouds within our customers' data centers.
U.S.
revenues increased 22% year-over-year to $443 million.
We saw solid performance from our U.S.
federal team as the government continues on its virtualization journey in an effort to contain and manage capital and operating costs while preserving high confidence in security and reliability.
International revenues were $499 million an increase of 42% compared to the third quarter of 2010 or 37% in constant currency.
Demand in our Asia Pacific region was particularly strong led by solid year-over-year bookings growth in Australia Japan India and China.
Our growth in Europe was led by strong demand in Germany.
We're very pleased with our progress in growing our global market presence.
The investments we have made and will continue to make in our international market expansion are clearly paying off.
Software maintenance and support revenue was $427 million up 36% compared to last year.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased illustrating their strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their data center architecture and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional services revenue was $71 million up 26% from last year.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $2.2 billion up 8% sequentially and 48% from a year ago.
The complexity of our unearned revenue has increased over time as a result of acquisitions an expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternatives.
Over 80% of our unearned revenues represent software maintenance that will be recognized ratably.
Approximately 12% of unearned revenue is software license revenue which will be recognized either ratably upon product delivery or upon product release.
In addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training which is recognized as the services are delivered.
We are very pleased with our third quarter financial results and operational execution and anticipate a seasonally strong fourth quarter.
We currently expect fourth quarter revenues to be within a range of $1 030 000 000 and $1 060 000 000 or year-over-year growth of between 23% and 27%.
Licensed revenues for the fourth quarter are anticipated to increase approximately 20% from last year.
From a booking's perspective in 2010 we saw a significant sequential increase in bookings between Q3 and Q4.
The timing of bookings can be lumpy and so you should not anticipate similar sequential growth in Q4 of 2011.
To help you in your modeling if we normalize the quarterly fluctuations we anticipate aggregate bookings for the second half of 2011 to grow at close to 30% year-over-year or approximately the same growth experienced in the second half of 2010 over 2009.
I'll now provide details on our operating results.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our Investor Relations website.
Our Q3 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was $285 million or 30.3% of revenue compared with 31.6% in the second quarter of 2011 and 28.6% in the third quarter of 2010.
We ended the quarter with 10 900 employees up 1 900 from the beginning of the year.
During the third quarter we added over 500 employees and expect to continue to hire in Q4 and throughout 2012.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.53 a share on 432 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 20%.
The GAAP tax rate was 3.1% lower than recent quarters due largely to a year-to-date benefit for a favorable shift in pretax income from higher to lower tax jurisdictions and an increase in our estimated U.S.
federal R&amp;D credit.
We continue to expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be at 20% for 2011.
The GAAP tax rate is expected to be 7 to 9 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP tax rate for the year.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that might disclose at the start of the call we expect our operating margin in Q4 to increase sequentially to between 30.5% and 31.5%.
The GAAP operating margins for the fourth quarter are expected to be approximately 10 to 13 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
Now on to our balance sheet and cash flows statement.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $4 billion.
During the quarter we used $365 million in aggregate for M&amp;A capital spending and our share repurchase program and we benefited from $100 million tax refund from EMC.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for capitalization of software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock compensation were $549 million during the third quarter and more than $2 billion for the trailing 12 months.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefits because it converts to cash or reduces our tax liability.
Free cash flows for the quarter were $494 million.
For the trailing 12 months free cash flows were $1.8 billion.
Free cash flow per diluted share was $1.14 for the quarter and $4.23 for the trailing 12 months.
As we have mentioned free cash flow per share can be volatile in the short term so we believe looking at it over a trailing 12-month period is a better indicator of progress.
The fully diluted share count increased to 432 million shares for the third quarter.
We expect our Q4 share count will be approximately 435 million shares.
And for the full year we expect a diluted share count to be within a range of 430 million and 435 million shares.
Before I hand it off to Paul I want to share with you how we are looking at the business for next year.
Given the strength of our 2011 results 2012 will be a difficult comparable.
There's growing uncertainty in the global macro conditions and an expectation of lower growth rates for both IT spending and server shipments relative to 2011.
For the first quarter of 2012 we are currently planning for total revenues to decline sequentially from Q4 and be in a range of $1 billion to $1 030 000 000 an increase of approximately 18% to 22% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
As a reminder during the first quarter of 2011 we closed five transactions in excess of $10 million and we do not anticipate this benefit in the first quarter of 2012.
The first quarter operating margin is anticipated to be below 30% and the GAAP margin approximately 9 to 14 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margin.
We will talk more about 2012 in January.
However as we go through our planning cycle it will be a year of challenging revenue comparables from 2011 and considerable investments.
The theme of our recent Analyst Day was big investments and bold bets in order to capitalize on the opportunity in front of us to help our customers to bridge to the future.
Customers are already modernizing infrastructures and operations to carry existing and future applications.
Customers will be investing in new and renewed applications and customers are faced with bridging from existing to new modes of end-user access.
Given all that we need to do to help our customers meet this challenge we are not planning on growth in our operating margins for 2012.
We plan to provide more information in January after we report our Q4 results and have completed our 2012 go-to-market plans.
To summarize we are very pleased with our execution and solid third quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making the key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth and free cash flow per share.
Paul will now make a few remarks before we take questions.
As Bob noted we had a very successful VMworld 2011 vanity event in Las Vegas in late August and this week we hold our corresponding VMworld Europe event in Copenhagen.
At the Las Vegas event we reiterated and updated our three-layered strategy.
The first layer builds off our strong foundation in virtualization.
Our opportunity is now to help our customers realize significant operational savings as virtualization becomes the accepted way of doing computing in the data center.
To do this we're building out a comprehensive cloud infrastructure suite for the private and public cloud incorporating new approaches for management and security.
At VMworld we announced new releases of all key components of this suite.
In the management dimension we are particularly pleased by the traction our vCenter Operations product is gaining.
Tomorrow at Copenhagen we will have further announcements in the management space.
The second layer of our strategy is to build out a new application platform for a multi-cloud world.
This encompasses our vFabric and Cloud Foundry work and is in large part based upon an open source approach.
We believe that these assets give our customers the flexibility and choice that they will need in the cloud era and provide an alternative to highly closed vertical stacks and avoid the Hotel California problem.
The third layer of our strategy is to enable end users to work productively and securely in a multi-device world.
This builds off our now very solid View desktop virtualization solution a new version of which we also announced at VMworld.
And at Copenhagen tomorrow we will be making some interesting announcements with partners in the space of mobile virtualization.
So we have our path laid out.
We continue to execute.
And as Mark noted we will continue to manage the business prudently given the uncertain macro environment.
But we are also committed to make the necessary efforts and investments to realize the opportunities and stay ahead of our competition.
Operator lets open it up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John DiFucci of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Mark you put up strong revenue but even stronger billings in cash flow.
Does this have anything to do with more large deals? In this quarter you mentioned you had I think two deals over $1 million -- over $10 million.
Because I'm just wondering you've been really early in noting what's happening in the macro economy.
And I'm just curious if you see for instance large deals being a little more sticky as they come to the end of their sales cycle versus mid size or smaller deals? John the overall bookings and cash flow performance is really driven by a combination of factors.
And first we have large receivables entering the quarter was 26% of our billings in Q2 being from ELAs.
And although we didn't have any $10 million plus deals in Q2 we did have a good collections behavior during the quarter.
And we also had really strong early quarter transactional business particularly in Europe which contributed to the cash flows for this quarter.
The overall ELA the size has not increased significantly.
In fact we have seen some behavior as customers become cautious about the macro environment of decreasing the length of the maintenance on uncertain deals.
This hasn't become a full trend yet but it was some of the caution that we were seeing towards the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and you mentioned Europe and you did say that growth in Europe was led by Germany.
If -- did Europe actually grow on a constant currency basis? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Can you tell us what that was? We just do -- just as an overall segment international completely and it was 37% growth on a constant currency basis.
And we did have growth so in the eurozone and in most of the countries in Europe.
Our next question will come from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had I guess two questions.
One was just drilling down a little bit more on John's comment.
Mark I was wondering if you're starting to -- you've seen a trend where you're recognizing a smaller percentage of ELAs at least I think you guys have been talking about that in the past recognizing a lesser proportion upfront.
I was wondering if you could talk about the dynamics there? And if that means that deferred gets a little bit more of a cushion say in calendar '12 whereas license revenue has a little bit of a sequential headwind as that trend unfolds? And I guess the other question would be for Paul.
Just to kind of where you think we are in the inflection of the management tools and kind of how do you see that playing out over 2012 in terms of helping to drive bookings growth? Heather with respect to deferred license revenue over the 2 last quarters...
Research Division</strong> Well not just deferred license just the ELAs in general.
If you could talk about the percentage that you've been recognizing as license revenue and the percentage that's been going to the balance sheet that might be going to maintenance revenue? Okay.
Well let me start with the deferred license revenue component.
We've had about 12% of total deferred our license revenue.
So that's growth of $15 million to $20 million sequentially from the second quarter that's on the balance sheet.
We've seen a trend of changing some of the entitlements and enterprise agreements so that a portion of that license revenue will be recognized ratably as opposed to when the particular product is shipped.
Overall the -- as we've done ELA renewals there is a tendency to have license revenue come from both vSphere but also management and desktop products.
But customers are renewal -- renewing the full vSphere maintenance typically at 3 years.
And so we are seeing a little bit of a percentage and more going on the balance sheet will be recognized as maintenance revenue overtime.
But at this point it's not a significant trend.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just on the management tools for Paul please? Sure.
So the management as we noted is a focus of ours because we think that that's where a lot of our opportunity lies in the future.
We've been assembling the pieces over the last several years and have now starting to get into the shape that we wanted to be.
With introduction earlier this year of our vCenter Operations suite it really gives us the fighting product that we want in that space.
But it's still early days we continue to slot elements into place and will continue to do so this year and into next year.
So on the one hand we feel good about the position we're building there that obviously we're building off a small base.
But it is a focus of ours going forward.
So the short answer is as far as we VMware are concerned we're in the early stages of that journey.
Our next question will come from Brent Thill of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Paul can you just talk through some of the pricing changes and what customers are seeing? I know you've given somewhat of a concession off the change and most of the pricing discussions died down in terms of the change? And for Mark.
Just at the end of September early October has there been any change in the customer behavior in terms of what you've seen in sales cycles or deal size that you saw that may have changed or is it -- was it similar in terms of linearity that you've seen in past quarters? This is Paul.
Quickly to jump in on your first question yes we have seen the discussion over pricing largely down -- died down.
As you know we did make an adjustment based upon feedback.
And since we have done that it has gone off as the front burner as an issue.
And Brent just on the linearity of the quarter and the behavior we saw to be towards the end of the quarter and early in Q4.
We continue to be fairly back-end loaded particularly on the larger transactions.
This quarter we had 22% ELAs which was a bit more in line as you recall from the comments last quarter 26% we thought was relatively high and that some of the transactions from -- in Q2 were really brought in that may have closed in Q3.
We have seen a bit more scrutiny in higher levels of approval required as we landed more towards the end of the quarter particularly with larger deals where they would go for CFO and CEO approval where in the past we may not have seen those approvals to be necessary.
Our next question will come from Mark Moerdler of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
First Mark how much of the strength that you're seeing do you feel is coming from clients spending earlier in the budget cycle to get those projects locked down before they're canceled? In addition as it relates to the maintenance you're seeing there that the same thing is happening that they're extending the maintenance periods out in order to be sure that they're not going to be canceled ahead of changes in the economy et cetera? And then a quick one for Paul do you have any more information on how we're doing how you're doing on Cloud Foundry? Mark this is Mark.
We haven't seen a lot of behavior that would suggest that customers are rushing to make purchasing decisions ahead of some fear that budgets might be shutting down.
In fact what we've seen is a bit more caution and just required higher levels of approval.
And with respect to terms on maintenance overall the averages have remained relatively constant.
From -- we have -- we did have several transactions this quarter which actually shortened the maintenance terms from say 2 years -- from 3 years to 2 years just to have less of a cash impact on a specific business.
But we haven't seen a big sort of rush to close transactions.
This is Paul.
I want to say on Cloud Foundry.
We continue to be pleased with the progress there the developers continue to sign up and test the service.
We are still in trial phase beta test of that service as we work on bringing that technology both to the private cloud and the public cloud in 2012.
This week at Copenhagen we'll actually see the first partnership announcements around Cloud Foundry as other software vendors are starting to cooperate with us in that space which is an early but positive indication.
Our next question will come from Philip Winslow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could talk about the verticals a little bit.
Paul I think you mentioned the government vertical being pretty good for you guys.
Any other standout from a strength or weakness perspective? And then also just one follow-up on deferred revenue obviously you guys had a very big deferred quarter.
I wonder if you could just take that out a little bit more and I know you discussed it previously but sort of what drove that outperformance this quarter? And then was there any sort of shifting of the deferred out of Q4 like the commentary of a tough comp year-over-year into Q2 -- Q3 or is that pretty apples-to-apples? Sure Phil.
First let me just address on the verticals.
There's really nothing too unusual.
This of course is the quarter for the U.S.
Federal business.
And overall we had good growth from the U.S.
Federal business.
We had anticipated that the growth rates would not be what they where in 2010 and that's what we saw the growth overall in federal was about what we experienced overall in the U.S.
but less than the overall business combined.
But other than that the other verticals nothing in particular stood out with respect to the verticals.
On overall deferred revenue unearned revenue we had really strength again based on what we felt was a fairly easy comp compared to Q3 of last year.
As you might recall from a year ago there were a lot of questions around whether we the business performed across the lines.
And although we made our bookings numbers a year ago there wasn't a lot of strength that put a lot of unearned revenue on the balance sheet.
And that's why when you look at the overall bookings for the back half of the year.
You are looking at a growth rate of about 30% which is comparable to the growth rate we had in the second half of 2010.
Our next question is from Rick Sherlund of Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First just on pricing any more feedback you're getting from customers on a change in pricing.
And then just to put a finer point on the question on deferrals were there any -- was there any evidence of actual order deferrals that you experienced end of quarter deals that normally you would think that you would get but you've seen evidence of the deals getting pushed out? And then lastly just on the management products if I understand they're small in nature.
Any sense of traction momentum and I don't think you going  to quantify for me but anything more you can say in terms of the magnitude and sort of the momentum you're experiencing in that part of the business? So this is Paul.
I think starting in reverse order there the management products we definitely expect to see our management product revenue grow at a much higher rate than our core vSphere business.
And as I said we think we're finally getting the completeness and functionality that we need in order for that to do going into 2012.
Now even with an accelerated growth rate just given the sheer magnitude of our vSphere business is going to take some time for that to really start to add significant mass to our overall performance.
On the pricing front as I said earlier while any price above zero always has to be earned and justified by and large our field tells us that the pricing is not -- is no longer a critical issue that it was earlier.
And by and large that has died down.
And Rick with respect to deals being pushed out at the end of the quarter really the behavior wasn't atypical from other quarters.
There always seems to be one big deal that's a potential but doesn't land and we had that again this quarter.
And so we continue to chase things into the pipeline in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Mark I don't want to read too much into this because I know your guidance is usually on the conservative side.
But in terms of what you're being told from IT departments and their spending plans for next year is it your sense that they've made plans to be more conservative next year or is it a little too early to read? I think it's a little bit early to read.
I think everybody seems to be cautious.
And so it's not -- we are sort of waiting to see what happens in particularly in Europe whether or not the macro economic conditions or sovereign debt concerns in Europe will cause some larger contagion.
But at this point most organizations are going through their budgeting cycles for 2012.
And we do expect that there'll be the typical Q4 seasonality but it's a bit early for us  to read too much into 2012.
Our next question will come from Adam Holt of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up I guess on Rick's question about next year.
Is there any reason to believe understanding its early you have commented on in this quarter and previous years.
Is there any reason to believe at a high level that seasonality in next year is any different than say we've say seen in the last couple of years? Adam it's really difficult to tell.
I think the uncertainty that exists again particularly in Europe but the impact that that might have on the rest of the world economy is one of the reasons that we've held back on giving high-level guidance for 2012 and we just think that we'll have a lot more visibility in the next 3 to 4 months.
Research Division</strong> If I can ask a follow-up on the ELA business.
You had another very good quarter of ELAs.
They've been strong now for several quarters.
Do you feel like you're selling model has structurally changed or helped by the broader product portfolio around driving ELAs as a percentage of your billings? Or do you expect that level to maybe shift as you to get into the first part of next year? And maybe talk about how you think about new versus renewal billings also as an influence there.
Yes overall the Enterprise License Agreement sales motion has been something we've been -- we're now in our fourth year of doing and so the field has gotten relatively good as engaging with the customers.
And particularly as we move into a renewal cycle it gives us an opportunity to -- to engage on management products and on desktops.
Over the years we've seen a trend to have smaller size organizations enter into ELAs.
These used to be reserved just for the very largest corporations but now we'll do ELAs that are in the $500 000 range and not just in the million-dollar plus range.
The renewal business continues to be good and really just somewhat of a cycle as to when renewals expire.
We don't see customers engaging too early in having a renewal done prior to its expiration date and we continue to engage with customers on renewals that go past expiration as well.
Our next question will come from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious to dig a little bit more into the management commentary.
I think Paul you mentioned that you think that management functionality is now complete and if that's the case how should we think about the sales cycle? You have the management products relative to the core business.
How easy or tough will it be going forward? I think you've talked about the deals or conferences having a base of 20 million virtual machines and the ASP or the management functionality at least at that point in time seem to be $1 300.
So we're all doing the time analysis.
Looks to be $25 million $26 million of addressable market at least.
But how should we think about the rate at which the management market moves ahead relative to where you stand with your core business? First of all what I've said is not that we're complete I said we've now got a fighting product.
So we've got the critical mass to go out there and really start engaging and generating business.
We're going to be at this for essentially forever adding functionalities as we go forward.
The -- it's hard to go beyond what I said earlier which is that we certainly have expectations that the rate of growth from management revenue will be higher than our core vSphere business.
And we have a fair degree of -- fair confidence that that will happen.
But the proof of the pudding is always is in the eating and -- but it will be a big focus of ours in 2012.
Research Division</strong> And one for you Mark if I could to what degree are you baking in a material revenue contribution from management products into your 2012 forecast? Kash at this point again it continues to be early.
We have concrete plans that certainly expect the management business to grow more quickly than the vSphere business just from the perspective of overall size.
But as we look at the first quarter of 2012 we expect continued growth in the management business.
Our next question will come from Walter Pritchard of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Mark a couple questions.
I guess one for Paul first on desktop.
I'm wondering what you're hearing from customers there as you get a little bit more scrutiny on deals.
Does that tend to get held up more than server? I'm curious first on that topic.
I don't think there's a dynamic cause by uncertainty around cost consciousness or whatever.
I think they're relatively equal in that regard.
The desktop deals tend to have a longest sales cycle associated with them because the cost benefit analysis isn't as compelling and as easy to make as a service ideal.
And typically the customers are doing it for the first time so they really want to experiment and get comfortable et cetera versus virtualization which is on the server-side which is a fairly mature and well-accepted technique at this point in time.
So the desktop deals tend to have a longer sales cycle with him.
And I guess you could theorize that for that reason they could be more susceptible to economic uncertainty.
But at this point as Mark noted particularly with View 5 we think we plugged any remaining significant holes versus our competition and are pleased with the progress we are seeing there and are making and getting good traction.
Research Division</strong> Mark just a question for you on ELAs.
There's been a few questions here.
But I'm just curious how you're thinking about the percentage of billings from ELAs in a tougher macro environment.
Does that come down because it requires customers to write bigger checks or does it go up because it gives them more certainty in terms of spend? How should we think about how that may play out over time if we start to see sort of a more systematic scrutiny on spending? Well Walter part of it becomes an individual customer-by-customer value proposition and how far along they are overall on the virtualization journey.
It's -- on the one hand if budgets are constrained customers may decide to forego future discount or possibly just forego out years of maintenance and buy smaller overall dollar amounts.
On the other hand they may take advantage of uncertainty because they have a little bit better visibility into their own businesses and decide to take advantage to enter into an ELA.
So what we've done is just to apply essentially the averages that we've seen and we do a bottoms-up build from the field.
And we're going through those 2012 planning cycles right now.
Our next question will come from Jason Maynard of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A quick question on cash flow.
You had a huge quarter here and I'm curious just how you think the better collections and strong bookings will influence Q4? And then just sort of a broader look into fiscal '12 I mean the cash flow growth from '10 to '11 has been ginormous.
So how should we kind of caveat and think about cash flow growth into '12? Jason I think as you look at the fourth quarter until the fiscal '11 cash flows and compare them to the trailing 12 in September you likely won't see as much sequential growth.
One is that we received $100 million tax refund during this quarter which impacted cash flows.
And although we have some built into the Q4 forecast it's not nearly that size.
And then also we'll build a fair amount of receivables in Q4 as we go through the fourth quarter flush.
Our -- which gives us of course a head start on the first quarter cash flows which tends to be one of our stronger quarters from a cash flows perspective.
As we look at 2012 it's -- we're largely dependent on the cash flow cycle on the link of maintenance agreements on ELAs and on transactions that we sell through that business.
And we've been over time just very resilient in staying in that 24-plus month cycle and continue to have a focus on that from the field.
And so largely our cash flow fortunes are based on the years of maintenance associated with licenses.
Our next question comes from Robert Breza of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just quickly looking at you talked about the mobile announcement for the next day I guess.
When you look at mobile how should we think about mobile's impact in the overall desktop solution and management tools? Hi this is Paul.
From a revenue point of view we don't think it's going to have a material impact on the near term.
But we think strategically it is very important.
Our customers tell us that this is one of their highest priorities as their -- more and more of their workforce essentially go mobile.
The challenge with the mobile there isn't a set of single bullet that you can fire at it to solve all problems.
So we're actively investing in there.
And as I said tomorrow we'll have announcements with partners carriers specifically as to some trials that we're going to be doing together in that space.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe just I think Mark you kind of talked a little bit about this as you look at 2012 maybe to be clear is there anything from a deferred revenue perspective that you see today that would influence the seasonality for next year? Not in particular.
We continued to have a combination.
It's 80% maintenance which is recognized ratably and so it makes it relatively straightforward to predict.
And of the 12% that is tied to license revenue a greater percentage of that revenue is ratable as well and so a portion of it is now long term.
But at this point there aren't any real significant trend differences that would affect models.
Our final question for today will come from Rob Owens of Pacific Crest Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any color on the desktop business beyond what you've already talked about View 5 shipping in the quarter just in terms of improved win rates or where customers at right now? No I think we said that we're generally happy in that space.
Happy from both the perspective of where we are with the functionality of the product and with our win rates and our customer acceptance.
As I said before those desktop cycles tend to have a longer decision cycles than the server-side of things.
And we're starting to see some of the fruits of having been in those decision cycles for some time now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You've talked in the past about it being about 10% of I think domestic bookings.
Are you still around that range? It's still in that neighborhood.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly how do we think about Romley potentially providing an upgrade cycle in '12? Can you repeat the question please? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Around Romley and its potential impact to 2012? We can't get that word.
What's going to impact 2012? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The Romley chip out of Intel.
Okay.
You're off our radar screen there.
We're not sure.
Okay everyone.
Thanks a lot.
That concludes the call.
Thank you for your participation on the conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the VMware Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
Now I will turn the meeting over to Mr.
Mike Haase Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury.
Welcome to VMware's fourth quarter and full year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Paul Maritz our CEO; and Mark Peek our CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
VMware assumes no obligation to and does not currently intend to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our first quarter quiet period begins at the close of business March 16 2012.
Finally unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2010.
With that let me hand it over to Mark.
Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone.
We capped an outstanding 2011 with a great fourth quarter producing record bookings revenue non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flow.
But before we dive into the fourth quarter details and look ahead to 2012 let's spend a little time looking back on our 2011 accomplishments.
Financially 2011 was an outstanding year.
Total revenue increased 32% to $3.8 billion and license revenue increased 31% to $1.8 billion.
Total unearned revenue is now $2.7 billion an increase of 46% during the year.
Long-term unearned revenue is approaching $1 billion and grew 60% in 2011 as customers continue to purchase multiple years of maintenance and as more unearned license revenue is recognized ratably.
On a non-GAAP basis we improved our annual operating margins by 250 basis points while increasing our R&amp;D spend by 23%.
As we plan for our long-term growth opportunities we are making a conscious decision to pause operating margin expansion in 2012 as we increase our investments in emerging markets and product innovation.
We repurchased $650 million of VMware stock during 2011 invested in aggregate of $380 million in CapEx and the long-term expansion of our Palo Alto campus in the Stanford Research Park and spent over $300 million on 8 acquisitions.
Yet we ended the year with $4.5 billion of cash and short-term investments almost entirely in U.S.
dollars and more than half of our cash is available for use in the U.S.
without further taxation in the U.S.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows were $2.2 billion and free cash flows exceeded $1.9 billion.
Free cash flows per share were $4.51 growth of 59% during the year.
We continue to believe that free cash flow per share is an important and durable measure of our business as it balances operating performance cash management capital efficiency and shareholder dilution while being a measure that every individual at VMware can influence every day.
Importantly our financial performance was driven by our product performance and 2011 was an outstanding year on many fronts.
We successfully launched vSphere 5 View 5 Cloud Foundry and Virtual Center Ops among other products.
We are building off our strong foundation in virtualization and are working to help our customers realize significant savings as virtualization becomes the accepted way of computing in the data center.
We're building out a comprehensive cloud infrastructure suite for the private and public cloud incorporating new approaches for application development management and security.
Our application platform layer encompasses vFabric and Cloud Foundry.
Our goal is to drive ubiquitous adoption of Cloud Foundry and we have generally made it available via open source.
We are giving our customers the flexibility and choice they will need in the cloud era to provide alternatives to highly vertical stacks.
We continue to strengthen our hand in end-user computing not only with the new release of View but also building products to allow customers to securely enable end users in an increasingly mobile and multi-device world.
We made 8 acquisitions during 2011 and welcomed more than 600 people from Digital Fuel PacketMotion Mozy SlideRocket Shavlik SocialCast NeoAccel and WaveMaker.
We added over 2 000 employees net ending the year with over 11 000 people.
We expanded our international footprint and customer-facing capacity particularly in the key markets of China Japan Eastern Europe Russia and Latin America.
All of this was accomplished while maintaining high standards of product and service quality and improving our 2011 non-GAAP operating margins by 250 basis points.
We are pleased with our 2011 accomplishments and want to thank all of the people of VMware our partners and our customers.
Now I'll walk you through the financial details of our fourth quarter.
Total revenues for the fourth quarter were $1.06 billion an increase of 27% from a year ago or 26% on a constant-currency basis.
Similar to our fourth quarter of 2010 we experienced a very strong Q4 budget flush helping to drive record volume in Enterprise License Agreements which represented 30% of total bookings for the quarter.
This included 5 transactions greater than $10 million each.
We were pleased to see a healthy mix in the quarter from renewals as well as new ELAs.
In addition we continue to see a higher attach rate for our end-user computing and management products as customers renew their ELAs.
License revenues were $514 million up 22% from last year despite a difficult comp.
We experienced strong and balanced performance across all regions despite our record volume ELA performance which generally offer higher discounts for the volumes purchased.
The strong demand for Enterprise and Enterprise Plus versions of vSphere resulted in overall ASPs per vSphere unit being flat compared to Q3 in the same period last year.
Within our cloud application platform we continued to see positive traction with the Cloud Foundry project and anticipate a commercial version later this year.
We were also encouraged to see positive adoption of vFabric during the quarter.
Demand for our end-user computing solutions was strong helping to drive record bookings.
Customer adoption of View 5 has been positive and we are seeing especially strong interest within our international markets.
We've been encouraged to see several large deals for View with solid business coming from both recurring business as customers choose to add additional licenses and from new customers.
Management and automation solutions also achieved record bookings with very positive traction for vCloud Director vCenter Operations and vShield.
We're very pleased that each product category in our management portfolio met or exceeded our Q4 operating plan with healthy contributions from our non-vSphere solutions.
U.S.
revenues increased 21% year-over-year to $531 million and international revenues were $529 million an increase of 34% compared to 2010 or 32% in constant currency.
Demand in our Asia Pacific region was particularly strong led by Australia Japan and China.
Our growth in Europe was driven by balanced demand across the region.
We're very pleased with our progress in growing our global market presence.
The investments we have made and will continue to make in our international market expansion are clearly paying off and we will continue to invest in these markets in 2012.
Software maintenance and support revenue during the fourth quarter was $463 million up 34% compared to last year; and our renewal business for the full year exceeded $1 billion in bookings.
We expect maintenance revenue to continue to grow at a faster rate than license revenue in 2012.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased illustrating their strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their data center architecture and longer-term private and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional services revenue was $83 million up 22% from last year.
Total unearned revenues ended the year at $2.7 billion up 46% from the end of 2010 and an increase of 21% sequentially.
The complexity of our unearned revenue has increased over time as a result of acquisitions an expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternatives.
Nearly 80% of our unearned revenue is software maintenance and will be recognized ratably.
Approximately 14% of unearned revenue is software license revenue which will be recognized either ratably upon product delivery or upon product release.
Increasingly unearned license revenue is recognized ratably and at year end represented over 40% of the total unearned license revenue balance.
In addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training which is recognized as the services are delivered.
2011 was a tremendous year for VMware and we are pleased with our financial results and operating progress.
For 2012 we are cautious about the macroeconomic environment and the volatility we are observing in the world economy and individual sovereign nations.
Although we have not observed a slowdown in customer activity like we saw in late 2008 and throughout 2009 we are cautious about the potential for slower IT spending and remain concerned about the European markets.
With this backdrop we currently expect first quarter revenues to be within the range of $1 015 000 000 to $1 040 000 000 or year-over-year growth of between 20% and 23%.
License revenue for the first quarter are anticipated to increase approximately 10% to 12% from last year on a very difficult comp.
Last year we benefited from 5 transactions in excess of $10 million each and do not anticipate this benefit in the first quarter of 2012.
For the year we are expecting total revenue of between $4.475 billion and $4.6 billion or growth of 19% to 22% compared to 2011.
License revenue in 2012 are expected to grow within a range of 11% to 16%.
This contemplates the linearity of license revenue by quarter to be similar to 2011.
I'll now provide some details on our operating margins.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our Investor Relations website.
Our Q4 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was a record $338 million or 31.9% of revenue compared with 30.3% in Q3 2011 and 29.6% in Q4 2010.
We ended the year with approximately 11 200 employees up 2 200 from the beginning of the year and 300 from the beginning of the fourth quarter.
We are in a rapidly changing and dynamic environment and we see much opportunity in the adjacencies to the vSphere platform and in our international market.
So you should expect that we will continue to hire at a brisk pace in 2012 to take advantage of these opportunities.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.62 a share on 431 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 20%.
The GAAP tax rate was significantly lower at 4% as it reflects a cumulative catch-up for all 2011 as a result of taxable income shifting from the U.S.
to international jurisdictions.
We expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 18% for 2012 and the GAAP rate to be a couple of percentage points lower than the non-GAAP rate.
As mentioned last quarter we are not planning for operating margin expansion in 2012.
We anticipate continued investments throughout the year related to product development global market expansion and go-to-market opportunities.
We see significant long-term growth opportunities and we'll continue investing to take advantage of them.
It will take us some time to ramp our investment spending in 2012 and as a result we expect the Q1 operating margin to exceed the operating margin for the full year.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Mike disclosed at the start of the calls we expect the non-GAAP operating margin for the first quarter to be within a range of 30% to 31% and the full year 2012 margin to be within a range of 29.5% to 30.5%.
The GAAP operating margins for the first quarter and full year 2012 are expected to be approximately 11 to 14 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
Quickly on a GAAP item.
As we shifted to product solutions and how these products work together we have reassessed our development process and its impact on capitalized software development costs.
We expect the amount to be capitalized in future periods to decrease significantly and as a result will have a negative impact on our GAAP operating results for the next couple of years as we continue to feel the impact of the amortization of previously capitalized amounts.
We expect this impact to be approximately $75 million in 2012 on a GAAP basis.
Now onto our balance sheet and cash flow statements.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at year end of $4.5 billion up $500 million sequentially.
During the quarter we used approximately $90 million in aggregate for capital spending in our share repurchase program.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for capitalization of software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock compensation were $588 million for Q4 and $2.2 billion for 2011.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefit because it converts to cash or reduces our tax liability.
During 2011 we acquired the lease rights to 70 acres-plus buildings on the site adjacent to our Palo Alto campus.
It is our intent to build out this site over the coming years and we expect our capital spending for this project in 2012 to be approximately $150 million bringing our total expected CapEx spend to approximately $325 million to $350 million for 2012.
Free cash flows were $535 million for the quarter and $1.9 billion for the year.
Free cash flow per diluted share was $1.24 for the quarter and $4.51 for the year.
As we have mentioned free cash flow per share can be volatile in the short term so we believe looking at it over a trailing 12 months is a better indicator of progress.
The fully diluted share count was 431 million shares for the fourth quarter.
We expect our first quarter of 2012 diluted weighted average share count will be approximately 430 million to 435 million shares.
And for the full year we expect a diluted share count to be approximately 435 million to 445 million shares.
To summarize we're very pleased with our execution and solid fourth quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making the key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth and free cash flow per share.
Paul will now make a few remarks before we take questions.
Thanks Mark.
To echo what Mark said Q4 provided a good end to a good year and I too would like to thank our employees partners and customers for their support.
During the course of the year we continued to demonstrate that we can bring new functionality to our customers in a repeatable and reliable way as evidenced by major leases in all of our product families.
Our customers have taken full advantage of this with the result that a substantial part of the world's server applications now run on VMware-supplied infrastructure.
But customers now want more than just virtualization.
They are looking for ways to become fundamentally more agile and efficient and transform their businesses.
They want to spend less time and effort on underlying infrastructure and devote more focus to transforming their businesses.
2012 will be the year when we expect our customers to accelerate beyond virtualization in significant numbers and start operating in a cloud-like manner.
This presents us with the opportunity to supply our customers and partners with an extended suite of software to address the integration automation management and development capabilities they need.
And it's for this reason that we continue to invest in our 3-part strategy of cloud infrastructure application platform capabilities for new and renewed applications and client management capabilities for the post-PC era.
In the dimension of cloud infrastructure we continue to not only make fundamental enhancements in vSphere but are pushing to deliver a full cloud infrastructure suite including management disaster recovery and security delivered via private or public clouds.
As Mark noted sales of these additional capabilities particularly management are growing strongly and adding to the value of our ELAs.
In the dimension of the application platform 2012 was a record year for our vFabric family growing strongly albeit off a small base.
Cloud Foundry continues to attract developers and we expect that to continue into 2012 as we and partners fill out the offering.
In the dimension of end-user provisioning we released View 5.0 our VDI offering which has been very well received by our customers.
The longer-term opportunity here is to enable enterprises to securely equip their users in a multi-device mobile world.
To address this we have our Horizon family of investments.
2012 will see us introduce significant new functionality in each of these areas.
Our partner ecosystem continues to grow and we are expecting some 4 000 attendees at our partner event in Las Vegas next month.
We are confident that these investments will stand us in good stead over both the near and the long haul.
Combined with discipline and hard work they will enable us to stay ahead of our competition and deal with continued uncertain economic times.
I am confident that we can grow to be a leader not just in virtualization but in IT transformation in the cloud era.
And with that we'll now open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Adam Holt of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is about the deferred license revenue which looks like it was up over 40% on the year-on-year basis.
Could you talk little bit about what's driving that? Are you trying to incent customers to move towards deals with either a ratable or multi-quarter kind of component? Maybe drill on that a little bit.
Sure Adam.
There's a couple of components to it.
Total deferred license revenue is in the neighborhood of $380 million and about half of that is going to be recognized ratably.
Much of that is coming from Enterprise License Agreements in which the terms are such that we've given some concessions to customers where they'll receive futures that we hadn't historically given.
And part of the motivation on this is that our practice has been when we have released new versions of product is that we've not had a significant upgrade fees associated with those products.
And so in some cases with larger customers it's been advantageous for us to go ahead and modify terms so that we could have ratable revenue recognition.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just ask a quick follow-up on ELAs.
It looks like you're ending a period where your comparisons are a little bit more difficult on the ELA renewals.
Is that the case or does some of the early renewing actually make the comparisons not as difficult as they look? And how are you thinking about navigating through the ELA component over the next couple quarters? Yes it's certainly the case and most of our ELAs are on a 3-year term.
And so as a result the comp we have in particularly in the first half of 2012 is a bit more difficult because we are looking at the teeth of the recession for 2009.
It will just -- that said the challenge that we'll have is to continue to sell more than just vSphere to also sell our end-user computing products as well as management automation products.
But we have a strong product portfolio and so the guidance contemplates a bit of a slower ELA renewal base.
Our next question will come from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Mark just one thing to clarify.
You have said that the ELA comps are difficult but maybe to take the  flip side of that you have more opportunity on these renewals right because you have probably depressed levels of activity in 2009 first half time frame.
So I would imagine that it actually gives you a bit of a tailwind as opposed to headwind if you could just amplify on that.
And one for Paul.
I think Paul you've said that you view the current penetration of core virtualization in the base as about 50% 55%.
In light of that though how should we think about the growth re-acceleration of VMware? Is it really going to come from management or desktop? Where is I guess your certainty/confidence level higher among the things that can around the core business drive reacceleration of your license revenue? Kash to your first question on ELA renewals.
Now if you think about the composition of an ELA at the end of the 3-year term customers typically have a contractual right to renew one year of maintenance at a fixed fee.
And so the overall base that we're starting with is relatively low compared to the original contract value.
And so we typically will go in to the extent that the customer has purchased additional licenses over time look at opportunities to make that maintenance coterminous.
And to the extent that there's an opportunity for us to reengage with the customer on their automation and desktop needs we'll do that as well.
So there are sales opportunities there in our overall sales motion but it will be starting with a bit of a lower base in particularly in the first half of 2012.
And just to go to your question about where is the growth going to come from in the future Kash first of all core virtualization continues to grow.
So we're -- we continue to see customers invest in that technology so it’s a -- we still have a growth opportunity there.
But as we've said on several occasions before we see the opportunity to not only sell virtualization but to sell what we call the adjacencies around that the other capabilities that people need for IT transformation.
And it's for that reason that we have in addition to vSphere created these product lines around management and automation around end-user computing and around the application platform.
And those businesses or those product lines are growing at a faster rate than our core vSphere business and we expect to see that continue.
And we're also -- as Mark noted we're pleased in the fourth quarter to see significant attach of both management and automation in our end-user product line as well as our application platform product line significant attach of those product lines to our ELAs in the fourth quarter.
So the growth will come from a combination of continued growth in core virtualization but with these so-called adjacencies growing at a higher growth rate.
Our next question will come from John DiFucci of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> Mark and Paul you guys have done an impressive job of sort of maneuvering or managing the current environment doing what you can control -- taking care of what you can control.
At the same time you've said several times here that there's a lot of uncertainty out there.
I saw a quote from it says Mark on Bloomberg that guidance assumes no macro deterioration.
And I -- first of all is that accurate? And then does that include financial services? I guess in other words does that imply that financial services spending will trend similar to last year? John when we put guidance together for 2012 the basic assumption that we've made is that the macro environment particularly in Europe isn't going to worsen and it isn't going to improve.
Now we haven't broken that out by individual sectors other than to look at our overall product pipeline customer pipeline and our knowledge about the ELAs that are going to renew.
So we've -- as we look ahead to the full year and we will of course approach it more cautiously because we have less visibility but our basic assumption is that Europe won't fall into a full-fledged recession.
Research Division</strong> But does that -- what about even -- there is some concern here in the U.S.
over the financial services obviously.
Financial services vertical obviously you guys didn't see much concern this quarter at all and that's great.
And that jump in deferred revenue sounds like -- even the future business feels pretty good.
But I'm just curious maybe if you can comment even on U.S.
financial services if you've seen any changes in that particular vertical and region.
John we don't as you know don't break out bookings by any particular vertical but the financial services industry has been a leader in data center innovation over time and so they’ve always been really a strong bookings sector for us.
But -- and we had a strong fourth quarter overall including the financial services sector.
But as we look ahead we're just assuming that IT growth is in the low single digits and that server growth is going to be at about 8%.
Our next question will come from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Paul I was wondering if you could share -- I just have a couple of questions here -- how fast do you see workloads growing on average per annum as a driver of your core vSphere growth? And then I guess the other part of my question would be if you could talk about your management offerings in light of those offered by the competition and kind of share with us the value proposition of one of your customers going with your management offerings if they're already using vSphere versus someone else's? And then I guess to Mark the last part was if you can just maybe update us on what percentage of bookings are related to management tools versus what you disclosed back at the Analyst Day in August.
This is Paul.
Our -- your question about application workloads growing and remember we are essentially eating out of 2 pools there.
One is applications that are coming -- existing applications that are coming over from a physical world today to the virtual world and then the creation of new application workloads.
And we see those continuing -- that growth in workloads continuing to outpace server growth so which is the reason that we are forecasting our license revenue to be above the server growth rate that Mark spoke about.
In terms of our management offerings versus competition I think there's a couple of factors there.
First of all we are squarely focusing our management automation offerings with the need of customers in running private cloud on top of virtualized infrastructure.
And that private cloud on top of virtualized infrastructure is becoming a bigger and bigger percentage of the footprint inside people's data centers.
So we see an increasing willingness of people to look at the management offerings and say that we need something that is highly optimized for the virtualized/private cloud world.
And we've done a lot of work there in introducing some significant innovative function there particularly around the vCenter Operations product.
Secondly we are working to develop an integrated suite.
We think that customers view infrastructure as incredibly important but it's not the thing that they want to spend more of their time and money on.
Instead they would rather be able to redirect their focus towards things that really are going to differentiate them in the marketplace versus their competition.
When that happens customers tend to place a greater premium on getting a complete suite of functionality and that's what we're doing for virtualized infrastructure and for private clouds.
So we're highly optimized for the environment and we believe we are better integrated is the 2 bottom lines.
And Heather with respect to management and automation bookings it was -- the fourth quarter was our strongest quarter yet for our management and automation products.
And overall it represented more than 10% of our license bookings but with a strong attach to ELAs and ELA renewals so selling into our installed base of customers that have deployed vSphere in production environments.
And so it was a very good quarter for the management products.
Our next question will come from Brian Marshall of the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering -- 2 questions I guess first one for Paul.
Paul would it ever make sense for server virtualization to be in an environment that you could characterized by one of homogenous workloads? And then second question for Mark.
Can you talk about any sort of outside ELAs that may have happened in the quarter? I know you mentioned 5 deals greater than $10 million but were there any that were significantly larger than $10 million? This is Paul.
I'm not sure exactly what you mean by homogenous workloads so I'll take a stab at answering your question.
And if it's not satisfactory feel free to drop me an email or call me afterwards.
What -- if you mean by homogeneous that all the applications are going to be like -- exactly like each other we think that what we're trying to do with our infrastructure is provide a common underlying substrate on which customers can run both legacy and future applications.
So we're trying to provide an environment that addresses a legacy world that is relatively heterogeneous with lots of different kinds of applications there but also think of the future world where people think more of the scale-out applications that consist of many repeated components that look exactly like each other.
But if you had something else in mind there let's take it offline.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with respect to any outside deals all I'll say because we haven't called out any individual customers is that the aggregate value of the 5 transactions over $10 million was less than $100 million.
Our next question will come from Walter Pritchard of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the guidance.
And sort of if I look at the first half of the year it looks like you guys blew through the high end of your quarterly guidance pretty handily in both Q1 and Q2.
And in Q3 and Q4 you were right at the high end of the guidance.
And I'm just wondering as you look back on the year what drove the disparity in performance versus your guidance first half versus second half? And then how should we look at the way you've guided for Q1 and then for the year in terms of how conservative looking at both then first half and second half of '11? Yes Walter I think when we look back on 2011 we started the year with an annual guide of 21% to 24% and then ended up with 32% revenue growth for the year.
And it was really -- the first quarter we significantly over performed and that was driven by 5 ELAs that were over $10 million.
And when we had looked at the original pipeline in giving guidance for the quarter we didn't have a single ELA in excess of $10 million.
And so that drove first quarter performance gave a base of maintenance revenue and deferred revenue that sort of went on throughout the year.
And so as we looked at the second half of the year we tended to tighten the range as the year moved on and then achieved more towards the upper end of the range.
And as we look ahead at 2012 we're trying to be realistic in our guidance.
We think as you look at the maintenance streams and the maintenance in professional services runoff there's not a lot of mystery to it when you take the guidance and then look at what's on the balance sheet as that rolls off through the year.
And so the real range of forecast accuracy comes into license bookings and we're giving a fairly broad range of 11% to 16% for the year.
And I believe at this point that it's a reasonable estimate.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the profitability you mentioned that we shouldn't expect to see you're not planning on margin expansion.
In the event you do see results in the top line that are better should we expect that it will flow-through? Or should we expect that you would spend that and still not see margin expansion in 2012? Yes it's -- our spending and our investments that we're making tend to not tie directly to revenue in any particular given quarter so that if there is upside in revenue in a particular quarter you'd expect operating leverage as a result.
Our next question will come from Brent Thill of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Mark the contribution for non-vSphere products I know you mentioned to Heather on her question about management was more than 10% of bookings.
I was curious if you could just take all the non-vSphere products.
Is there a simple number that you can give us that relates to the suite beyond vSphere? Well we're still not to the point Brent where we're breaking out individual product revenue.
vSphere continues to be the biggest drivers of bookings.
And even when you look at ELAs they start with vSphere and then there's stronger attach to management and automation as well as end-user computing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for Paul just a follow-up on View.
There's a number of large hills that you saw in the quarter.
Can you give us a sense of where you think we are in the evolution? And what we should expect for this year? Well we continue to expect our View business to grow strongly this year as Mark said.
We think in View 5 we have a fighting product.
Customers are responding well to it and we continue to expect to see success there.
Our next question will come from Philip Winslow of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
First Paul wondering if you could give us just an update on desktop virtualizations? Just what trends you're seeing there and how that business is doing for you guys.
And also Mark one of the things that was highlighted obviously was the increase in deferred license revenue on the balance sheet just a higher mix of license going there.
When you think about your guidance for this year did you factor for the increased deferral rate in there? And maybe if you could provide more color there that would be great.
Okay this is Paul commenting on desktop virtualization.
I think there is a -- there are near-term and then medium-term directions there.
In the near term as I said we continue to see success in traditional desktop virtualization which is the notion of running a Windows workload or Windows desktop in a virtual machine connected to some kind of a non-PC or thin client device.
That is something that is particularly strong in certain verticals where security and control is important.
So financial services healthcare education the military tend to be the major drivers of growth there and we expect that to continue.
What we see happening in the medium term is that business which we call our end-user computing or end-user provisioning businesses beyond desktop virtualization becomes part of a larger opportunity which is to provide customers or enterprises with the capability to equip users with the services that they need applications and data and have those services appropriately and securely mapped to whatever device the user happens to hold in his or her hands.
And those services could be both Windows applications SaaS applications new applications.
And the devices include everything from laptops through the thin client terminals tablets smartphones et cetera.
So we see the desktop virtualization business becoming a segment of a broader end-user computing/multi-device/mobile provisioning world.
And on deferred license revenue our guidance assumes that we will not be eroding deferred license revenue balances.
See our deferred license revenue is really made up of 2 separate components.
The first is the result of product promotions that we may run in a quarter or any particular product announcements that we make ahead of release in which that license revenue is deferred until we actually ship the product.
And that's about half of the deferred license revenue we have.
And then the other half as I spoke about previously is ratable based on Ts and Cs particularly in Enterprise License Agreements.
Our next question will come from Rick Sherlund of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> On ELAs what's the opportunity to renew early on ELAs? And do you see that very often that people run out of capacity or have expanded needs and so maybe the term is shortened? And also just on the discounts that are being offered on ELAs has there been any change there? Yes Rick overall the best look we have at discounts on ELAs is really the ASPs around vSphere and we haven't seen erosion of ASPs on vSphere either sequentially or year-over-year.
You will have different customer behavior on early renewals or on carryover of ELAs that terminate and they tend to balance each other out.
So as we close the fourth quarter we had some ELAs that were renewed early from the first half of what would have normally would have termed in the first half of 2012.
And we also have some carryover of ELAs that expired during the fourth quarter which we're still in negotiations with customers on either an expansion of the product offering or just the length of term.
Research Division</strong> Is it possible for this next 6-month period to accelerate some of the renewals that might be coming earlier either the customer is in a position to expand and is motivated to do so? Yes we certainly can engage with the customers on that.
Although typically the sales cycle has more pressure around it as the ELA terms and -- as we hit the termination date and beyond.
Our next question is from Shaul Eyal of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Paul just a quick word if you can share with us what the competitive dynamics look like? Sure.
We haven't seen a major shift in the competitive dynamics over the course of 2011.
Of course we're expecting a release by Microsoft of their Hyper-V 3 Windows 8 product in the latter part of this year and we expect them to come back at us again.
And we're prepared for that.
It is one of the reasons that I mentioned that one of the things we've worked very hard at at VMware is to be able to reliably and predictably and frequently deliver new functionality.
And in the past we've been able to turn our crank faster than Microsoft can turn theirs.
And we're hoping that that will stand us in good stead in the future.
Our final question for today will come from Robert Breza of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just really wanted to follow up Mark if you could talk about cash flow and how we should think about the seasonality? Or how we should think about that may be tracking revenue or license growth? That would be great.
Sure.
It's -- the cash flow comp for 2012 is going to be a challenge relative to 2011.
We had a good year in bookings.
And as you look at the deferred license revenue growth it was very strong.
And we also have some CapEx in front of us with respect to the campus buildout that we're doing in 2012 in which we expect to spend $150 million or so on the Palo Alto campus.
But that said we expect cash flows to grow in line with revenues offset a bit by the operating margin guidance we provided.
Okay great.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you for your participation on the conference call today.
At this time all parties may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mike Haase Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury.
Sir you may begin.
Welcome to VMware's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Paul Maritz our CEO; and Mark Peek our CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believe expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our second quarter quiet period begins at the close of business June 15 2012.
Finally unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2011.
With that let me hand it over to Mark.
Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone.
The financial and business results of our first quarter 2012 were once again strong.
We achieved record non-GAAP operating margin and free cash flows driven by strength across our product offerings and record international revenues.
Total first quarter revenues increased to 25% and license revenues increased 15% compared to the same period last year.
Our non-GAAP operating margin was 32.6% for the quarter.
Trailing 12-month free cash flows were $2.1 billion an increase of 53% from a year ago.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments of $5.2 billion and unearned revenue of $2.8 billion.
Customers continue to move along the virtualization journey and migrate from virtualizing their test and development environments and simpler Tier 3 apps to more mission-critical applications including databases ERP systems e-mail and collaboration systems.
Global demand for vSphere continues to be strong with the new release expected to be launched in the second half of the year.
We were pleased to see so many customers utilizing our management and automation solutions as they build out their data centers into private clouds.
During the quarter we updated our Virtual Center Operations Suite a comprehensive management portfolio designed to help customers deliver IT as a Service by simplifying and automating the operations of virtual and cloud environments.
Demand for VCOps since its original release 1 year ago has been strong and feedback from our most recent release has been encouraging.
This month we recognize the 1-year anniversary of our Cloud Foundry project.
As an open Platform as a Service Cloud Foundry is designed to run on a wide variety of environments protecting developers from being locked into any one particular cloud provider.
As of last week we had over 75 000 downloads of the Cloud Foundry client and the Micro Cloud Foundry.
This open-source project continues to see ecosystem adoption as signified by over 3 300 followers.
The VMware Service Provider Program continues to grow with over 8 000 partners across 150 countries and includes a cross-section of small medium and large service providers working with us to provide hosted IT services based on VMware solutions.
Most recently we added AT&amp;T to our list of cloud service partners utilizing VMware cloud solutions joining Bluelock Colt CSC Dell Optus SingTel SOFTBANK and Verizon.
4 of the 5 leaders in Gartner's 2011 Magic Quadrant for Public Cloud Infrastructure as a Service offer cloud service based on VMware.
This week we rolled out My VMware a new system that helps our partners and customer to manage their license and support entitlements.
In development for over a year My VMware is an integrated self-service account-based portal that is focused on simplifying and streamlining customer interactions with VMware.
This is part of our ongoing effort to make it as easy as possible for our customers and partners to do business with us.
We were pleased with our start to 2012 and want to thank all of the people of VMware our partners and our customers.
Now I'll walk you through the financial details.
Total revenues for the first quarter were $1 055 000 000 an increase of 25% from a year ago.
The impact of foreign currency year-over-year was negligible.
Total international revenue represented a record 54% of total revenue.
Demand in our Asia Pacific region was particularly strong driven largely by fiscal year end spending in Japan.
License revenues were $482 million up 15% from last year driven by strong demand in our international markets and strength across product offerings during the quarter.
License growth on a constant currency basis was 14%.
Enterprise License Agreements were 22% of total first quarter bookings and included 2 transactions of $10 million or more.
For comparison we had 5 transactions of $10 million or more in the first quarter of 2011.
Blended vSphere ASPs were down from the previous quarter reflecting strong demand for our 2 SMB SKUs Essentials and Essentials Plus.
In addition our ELA bookings which tend to include our higher-priced Enterprise SKUs were sequentially lower as a percentage of total bookings.
This is not surprising given our normal seasonality.
However the average ASP for Enterprise SKUs Enterprise and Enterprise Plus increased slightly compared to Q1 2011.
We're also pleased with the level of customer demand for our management and automation tools.
Solutions such as vCloud Director and vCenter Operations are seeing solid traction in the market.
Much of the increased interest for our management tools is being driven by the build-out of private clouds within our customers' data centers.
As customers continue to virtualize their data centers with vSphere their interest level in our management and automation tools tends to increase.
Our cloud application platform business is seeing solid demand with adoption by some of the largest customers looking to build their next-generation applications using our vFabric and GemFire solutions.
In the first quarter we also had a solid number of desktop virtualization wins across geographies and verticals.
Our recurring business continues to track well as existing customers continue to buy additional View licenses.
We also saw healthy demand from new customers.
We anticipate an updated version of View to be launched later this year.
U.S.
revenues increased 21% year-over-year to $485 million and international revenues were a record $570 million an increase of 28% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Strong demand in Japan and China led our growth in the Asia Pacific region.
Growth in Europe was led by strong demand in the United Kingdom.
We're very pleased with our progress in growing our global market presence.
The investments we have made and will continue to make in our international market expansion are clearly paying off and we will continue to invest in these markets in 2012.
Software maintenance and support revenue was $492 million up 35% compared to last year and our renewals bookings were at a record percentage of total quarterly bookings.
We expect maintenance revenue to continue to grow at a faster rate than license revenue in 2012.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased illustrating their strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their data center architecture and longer-term private and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional services revenue was $81 million up 33% from last year.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $2.8 billion up 4% sequentially and 42% from a year ago.
Long-term unearned revenue is now more than $1 billion and has increased 52% from last year.
The complexity of our unearned revenue has increased over time as a result of acquisitions and expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternative.
Approximately 80% of our unearned revenue is software maintenance and will be recognized ratably.
Approximately 13% of our unearned revenue is software license revenue which will be recognized either ratably upon product delivery or upon product release.
Our unearned license revenue at the end of Q1 represents the largest percentage of total unearned license revenue in any Q1 since we went public.
Increasingly unearned license revenue is recognized ratably which now represents over 50% of the total unearned license revenue balance.
In addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training which is recognized as the services are delivered.
We had a very good first quarter as we benefited from strong demand in our international markets across products and the seasonality of our OEM partners.
However we remain cautious about the macroeconomic environment U.S.
federal spending outlook and the volatility we're observing in the world economy and individual sovereign nations.
With this backdrop we expect second quarter revenues to be within a range of $1 100 000 000 to $1 120 000 000 or year-over-year growth of approximately 19.5% to 21.5%.
Second quarter license revenue is anticipated to increase within a range of 10% to 12%.
For the year we are expecting total revenue of between $4.525 billion and $4.625 billion or growth of approximately 20% to 23% compared to 2011.
License revenue for the year is anticipated to increase within a range of 12% to 16%.
As mentioned last quarter we expect the linearity of 2012 license revenue by quarter to be similar to 2011.
We currently anticipate third quarter license revenue to be approximately flat sequentially from Q2.
I'll now provide some details on our operating margins.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our IR website.
Our Q1 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was a record $344 million or 32.6% of revenue compared with 31.9% in Q4 2011 and 29.9% in Q1 2011.
On a trailing 12-month basis our operating margins were 31.6% reflecting the economics of the software license business model.
Year-over-year operating margins benefited 58 basis points from foreign exchange rates.
We ended the quarter with approximately 11 800 employees up 600 from the beginning of the year.
We had targeted a higher Q1 headcount which was responsible for some of the overperformance in operating margin.
We're in a rapidly changing and dynamic environment and see significant opportunities in the adjacencies to the vSphere platform so you should expect VMware to accelerate hiring throughout 2012 to take advantage of these opportunities.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.66 per share on 433 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 18% and the GAAP tax rate was 14.5%.
We expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 18% for 2012 and the GAAP tax rate to be approximately 3 to 4 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP rate.
In January I said we are not planning for operating margin expansion in 2012.
We see significant long-term growth opportunities and we'll continue investing in our product development global market expansion and go-to-market to take advantage of them.
We anticipate the ramp of our investment spending to accelerate during the second half of 2012.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Mike disclosed at the start of the call we now expect our non-GAAP operating margin for the second quarter to be within a range of 30.5% to 31.5%.
For the full year we expect the non-GAAP operating margin to be within a range of 30.25% to 31.25%.
The GAAP operating margins for the second quarter and full year 2012 are expected to be approximately 12 to 15 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
As a result of our annual equity refresh program we expect stock-based compensation expense to increase to over $100 million per quarter for the remainder of the year.
Now onto our balance sheet and cash flows statement.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $5.2 billion up $700 million sequentially.
During the quarter we used $34 million in capital spending.
We did not repurchase any shares during the quarter however we currently have open authorization to repurchase up to $685 million of our common stock.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for capitalization and software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were $630 million for Q1 and $2.3 billion for the trailing 12 months.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefits because it converts to cash or reduces our tax liability.
As mentioned last quarter our total expected CapEx for 2012 is approximately $325 million to $350 million which includes the continued build-out of our Stanford Research Park campus.
Free cash flows for the quarter were $597 million and $2.1 billion for the trailing 12 months.
Free cash flows per diluted share were $1.38 for the quarter and $4.79 for the trailing 12 months.
As we have mentioned free cash flow per share can be volatile in the short term so we believe looking at it over a trailing 12 months is a better measure of our progress than quarterly.
Also when we look at anticipated cash flows for 2012 compared to last year keep in mind we plan to invest about $100 million more in CapEx this year.
In addition last year our cash flows benefited from the collection of tax receivables of more than $300 million which covered both 2010 and 2011 tax years.
Our tax receivables are dependent on various factors including tax deductions for equity-based compensation and the continuation and timing of the federal R&amp;E tax credit.
The fully diluted share count was 433 million shares for the first quarter.
We anticipate our second quarter and full year 2012 diluted share count will be approximately 435 million to 440 million shares.
To summarize we're very pleased with our execution and solid first quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making the key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth and free cash flow per share.
Now I will hand it over to Paul.
Thanks Mark.
As you can tell from Mark's remarks we laid a firm foundation for 2012 despite lingering concerns about fragility of the macroeconomic environment.
We believe that this foundation reflects the ability of our basic thesis that our customers want on the one hand to achieve greater efficiencies under their existing IT operations and on the other hand free up the resources to transform their applications and business models for the future.
And we are shaping both our products and our go-to-market investments to support these challenges.
To achieve infrastructure transformation we continue to invest first and foremost in products for the back-end or the data center centered on vSphere and the vCloud suite of infrastructure and management products for the private and public cloud.
We're also investing in front-end infrastructure building off our VDI View investments providing a suite of products with a secure automated provisioning of end-users in the post-PC age.
As Mark noted we updated our vFabric and Cloud Foundry products which are targeted at application renewal and we are anticipating further significant enhancements in all 3 of these major dimensions during the course of the year.
In addition we are responding to demand from our customers to address the operational process and people aspect of operating infrastructure in a modern cloud-like manner that does introducing a set of professional services offerings under the label Accelerate Advisory Services.
The IP behind these services will be available to our [Audio Gap] customers are investing in IT for the longer-term and we are certainly primary beneficiaries of this and are thus ourselves investing for the longer term.
But it should be noted that concerns about the macro environment particularly in Europe are still with us and there is definite caution in our customers with their careful scrutiny of deals.
This will be my last earnings call with Mark.
I think we have now done 16 of these calls together and I would like to thank him for what he has done for us at VMware.
If my memory serves me correctly we've been able to meet or exceed our basic revenue and margin guidance for over 12 consecutive quarters now and this is a no part -- no small part a testament to Mark's leadership and wisdom.
Equally importantly Mark has built a strong finance team.
They combined with the 3 experienced CFOs that serve in our Board of Directors will stand us in good stead for the future.
So thanks Mark.
We will miss you but though you will no doubt have the pleasure of taking questions in a future capacity from many of the same folks on this call.
Lastly I'd like to welcome Carl Eschenbach who's sitting in on this call and who is stepping up to a COO role.
Carl has grown our sales from millions to billions and our customer operations team to its present 6 000 strong level.
As our company grows it's good to be able to call upon his skills and experience.
So with that we'll open up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question's from Heather Bellini.
Okay.
The next question's from Brian Marshall.
Research Division</strong> I have a question with respect to ELA adoption for your management tools and automation.
If you did roughly $60 million in management tools and automation revenue in the quarter -- it's kind of  my calculation I estimate that roughly 30% of the ELAs are actually -- or 30% of the ELAs have an attached to that management tools and automation.
Can you talk about if those numbers are roughly accurate how it's progressed throughout the year? Yes Brian this is Mark.
Overall we don't break out product revenues by category.
Management on products in general are about 10% of overall license bookings.
And certainly particularly in more mature markets and with customers who have been through the virtualization journey as ELAs renewal -- renew we have a strong attach weight -- rate with management and automation products.
But other than that we're not getting into the specifics of attach rates or percentages.
Research Division</strong> It's safe to say that the ELAs or most -- or the management tools and automation is mostly associated with the ELA business today? Yes they're more closely associated with Enterprise License Agreements as opposed to single unit channel sales.
Next question is from Kash Rangan.
Research Division</strong> One question for you on the management bookings.
So I think last quarter or 2 it was about the 10% range.
Just curious if we should be expecting this to trend higher because the obviously the management tools is arguably earlier in its maturity phase? And when should that start to kick in and when therefore could we expect to see reacceleration of license revenues? That's it for me.
Thanks Kash.
Again the management tool do associate more closely with ELAs both new ELAs and ELA renewals.
This quarter the ELA percentage of total bookings was 22% which is down sequentially and really somewhat seasonally when you consider the maturer markets the U.S.
and Australia in particular.
And so I don't have a guidance for you as to when management will kick in to be a larger percentage of overall license bookings but it's safe to say that we're optimistic about those product offerings and the building off the vSphere platform.
The next question is from John DiFucci.
Research Division</strong> I have a 2-part macro question.
Mark you mentioned that Europe and federal government is 2 areas that you're keeping an eye on and perhaps you could see some weakness from there.
But I guess we have seen some weakness from there already.
You did say international strength was driven by strong APAC but you did say Europe did grow due to U.K.
strength.
I just wondered if you could give this -- I mean quantify that in any way about Europe? I know you don't normally break that out but I assume it did grow because you said it did.
But -- and I assume it grew less than Asia Pac so can you give us anything more on that? And also you did not mention financial services.
And I know it's a seasonally slower first quarter here but can you give us any gauge on that vertical because we've been hearing of some pressure on budgets out of financial services companies? [Technical Difficulty] Public sector in general as we are entering an election year and so there's additional uncertainty as a result.
And as we look at the forecast on the business we're just approaching that with a certain amount of caution.
And then -- we're okay? Sorry I understand we're experiencing a little bit of technical difficulty so I'm not sure that -- that clear that you're hearing us but now I'm pretty sure that you are.
So in summary yes strength in APAC really based -- really a strong quarter in Japan as they went through their year-end budget flush.
In Europe we did -- we continue to be really cautious given macroeconomic conditions and the fact that in many sectors in Europe it's really the governments that are spending the money if you think about education and healthcare in particular.
But it was a good quarter for us particularly in the U.K.
And then you'd asked the question -- and also I believe about the financials and as you know we don't give any particular information on any one vertical in our business but the financials continue to be an important set of customers for us and it's part of the overall macro as we look at guidance going ahead for the year.
The next question is from Laura Lederman.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to talk a little bit about desktop virtualization.
You talked about how much the management tools are of bookings but can you talk a little bit about desktop? And another desktop-related question can you help us understand a little bit about where you're successful is that largely also on ELAs or is it spread equally between ELA and non-ELA business? Just give us a little color on desktop.
Sure Laura.
Yes overall the end-user computing group was approximately 10% of overall license bookings during the quarter.
And it is a mix of leverage off of Enterprise License Agreements both new and renewed agreements.
But also a bit more sales through the channel than we experienced from the management products.
Research Division</strong> And a related question as well can you talk a little bit about big deals in the desktop size the numbers are you mainly selling it to less than 10 000 seats or you're also selling a lot of big multi -- tens of thousands seats as well? Well for the most part what we're doing is that we'll start with proof-of-concept on desktop and then you'll go into larger and larger accounts here.
We certainly have 10 000 seats plus transactions with View.
But for the most part there are transactions that are smaller than that.
The next question is from Adam Holt.
Research Division</strong> You had another good ELA quarter despite a difficult renewal comparison on the renewal of ELAs.
Can you talk a little bit about the mix between new ELAs and renewal ELAs? And were you able to grow renewal ELAs on a year-on-year basis? Well Adam we don't break it out specifically but we look at all of the opportunities.
And just as a reminder the ELA -- in a perfect linear world an ELA will renew in the quarter at which it expires but the actual behavior that we see is that frequently the -- any ELA that closes in a given quarter there's some lag of a quarter or up to several quarters from when that ELA expired and as we work through the sales process with our customers.
And so the mix of new ELAs and renewed ELAs will shift from quarter to quarter and overall what we try to give is just the percentage of it as the way to total bookings.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a quick follow-up on margins.
The increase for the year for margins looked relatively modest relative to the outperformance in Q1.
You're accelerating the expenditures throughout the year.
Maybe just walk us through where those dollars are going and kind of connect the dots on what we saw in Q1 upside versus vSphere and margins? Sure.
And what -- so first on a year-over-year basis we had about a 58 basis point help from currencies in the operating margin.
And then as I mentioned in the prepared remarks we didn't hire completely to plan from where we guided in the first quarter.
And so we are not pulling back from our overall hiring and in fact have a good ramp as we begin the second quarter and move through the year.
And as well we're going to continue to invest in products and we believe we have a lot of opportunity in each of the 3 layers and management and we're continuing our hiring.
I think when you look at our open recs you can see that we haven't pulled back from that hiring.
And then we continue to also expand in our go-to-market strategies both internationally and domestically.
The next question is from Mark Moerdler.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions on here.
The first one is you were discussing the headcount and the fact that there's a bit of -- it sounds like of a delay of it.
Is this due to some form of a change in the competitive dynamics for hiring or in terms of the type of people you are hiring that would cause you not to be able to bring on the people that you had expected? And the second for Paul is can we get a sense of how you're doing now with Mark about or shortly going to be leaving in terms of the process et cetera for a replacement if a replacement is possible for Mark but a replacement? It's Mark.
First just on headcount it's not so much a change in the competitive dynamic and our -- and we're actually pleased with our overall attrition rates because they haven't changed appreciably in the quarter as well.
But I think it's much more just about the ramp that we experienced as we enter the quarter and that much of our hiring is done in a variety of markets both here in Palo Alto and across the country but also internationally.
And so it's -- I think we just may have been a little bit overly optimistic as to how quickly we could on-board people.
So this is Paul.
I will comment very briefly about plans going forward.
As I noted we're blessed with having very strong folks underneath Mark here in the -- in each of the key financial disciplines of accounting planning and revenue.
And so we are -- and we're also having 3 very experienced CFOs looking over our shareholders there on our Board of Directors.
It gives us the luxury of being able to be thoughtful and careful about choosing a replacement for Mark going forward.
So we're going to go about that in a deliberate and thoughtful process knowing that we've -- right now Mark is leaving us with a pretty tight ship and a very good team which gives us that luxury.
The next question is from Walter Pritchard.
Research Division</strong> On the management side we heard you mentioned the 10% and it weighted more towards ELAs.
But I'm wondering bigger picture on management.
I mean as we look at Microsoft for example we think that management revenue versus their server business is about 15% of the opportunity meaning 15 cents on the dollar that they get in management.
I'm wondering if you guys have thought about how big the opportunity is for management versus your server market? Yes this is Paul.
I'll jump in and take that one.
We actually see ourselves as really participating in a broader opportunity which is data center automations.
So we see both our vSphere products and our so-called management products as addressing a common underlying need which is to fundamentally automate operations in the data center.
So we don't necessarily think of our world as splitting neatly into an infrastructure opportunity and a management opportunity here.
We see those things very closely connected to each other and what you'll see us do moving forward is in fact move towards sales motion where we're selling a suite of products that includes the core underlying infrastructure capability security management and other functions as well.
So what we look at really is this the opportunity to grow our business to provide what we call the software-driven data center where we use increasingly standardized hardware plus software to deliver a new level of automation at the data center in the form of private and public clouds.
And we're pretty confident that that market is a market that's going to grow very strongly.
So we see there are -- our overall infrastructure business has a lot of growth potential associated with it that we don't need to necessarily break it out into infrastructure versus management versus security et cetera et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just Mark one question for you.
I think we just calculated from the commentary you gave around deferred license revenue that you drew that down by about $14 million sequentially.
But I think you drew that down by a similar amount last year in March.
And I'm wondering if we look at deferred license revenue and your expectation throughout the year should we expect that you generally draw that balance down in the first half of the year and then build that balance back up in the second half like happened in fiscal '11? Well Walter it's one of the different most difficult balances that we have to forecast and we try to provide a bit of color around deferred license revenue.
If you look at it from a pure license bookings perspective of what the revenue we reported versus deferred license revenue we grew about 16% this quarter year-over-year.
And rather than give sort of specific guidance as to where we think it will be you'll see in the second quarter that it's not a material component of how we guided for revenue for the second quarter.
And to the extent that there are larger growth in that balance yes still tend to happen in the second half.
The next question is from Heather Bellini.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Paul if you could share with us when did you start to see the momentum build in regard to virtualizing Tier 1 apps? I don't know that you've called that out on your call before.
And I guess the follow-up would be what's caused people to get more comfortable with this? And then finally how big of an opportunity do you think it is? Sure sure.
The -- we've seen or we've been basically predicting that people will start to move towards virtualizing their Tier 1 application simply because once you get up to the 50-plus percent level of virtualization you've got to do -- you've got to start tackling your Tier 1 apps.
And as you know many of our customers are now at that point or accelerating beyond it which means that they've done all the "easy stuff" and now they're tackling their mission-critical business-critical applications.
So we see that to continue to be a major theme and focus as customers go forward.
We've got a lot of experience doing that right now.
We can make that experience available to them.
And whereas before I think it was considered sort of somewhat avant garde to virtualize your mission-critical applications it's rapidly becoming something where you're considered the exception if you're not going in that direction.
So that has been a positive trend.
Now people do take it with appropriate degree of care so it does take longer to get those mission-critical applications virtualized.
But we see all of our core customers now really aiming to get to very very high levels of virtualization way in excess of 50% which is why we think that one we still have a lot of growth ahead of us just in terms of virtualizing applications and -- both existing applications and the new applications that are coming into the pool as people develop and deploy new applications.
And then secondly to build on that foundation of virtualization by providing the automation for the data center that I was talking about and stressing again that we see this is automation which is a combination of infrastructure plus management plus security plus other functions in the data center.
And so you heard me say before that I think we have both the breadth and the depth of opportunity.
Breadth in terms of the descent of virtualization and depth in terms of the additional functionality and automation that we can sell even to our existing customers.
Our next question is from Rick Sherlund.
Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions.
First Mark on ELAs you mentioned sometimes these renew possibly earlier I'm wondering if there's anything unusual you're anticipating for Q2 in terms of ELA renewal activity? And second for Paul on OpenStack I noticed that IBM and Red Hat recently joined that initiative and you talked about the kind of the breadth and depth of your data center automation.
And I'm kind of curious how often does OpenStack come up as a competitive consideration as you're talking about infrastructure and management and how you might expect that to develop over time? Yes Rick on ELA renewals the tendency we see is actually more -- ELA is -- probably half plus will renew in the quarter in which the expiration comes up.
And it's more frequent that they'll renew late as opposed to renew early just from if you think about the customer buying patterns and buying habits that makes a lot of sense.
And also our field is disciplined to think through the -- customers and the clients that are in either the renewal phase or maybe that haven't renewed from previous quarters.
So as we look ahead we have a fairly good look into our pipeline as to who's coming up for renewal or who hasn't yet renewed.
This is Paul addressing your point about OpenStack.
So at this point we're certainly aware of OpenStack and aware that there's a fair amount of interest in it from various parties in the industry which is not surprising given the importance of this fundamental trend where customers trying to move to operating in a cloud-like manner both in their internal data centers and the public data centers.
So it is highly unlikely that we would be left alone to have that opportunity all to ourselves.
That being said OpenStack at this point compared to the vSphere environment is still relatively immature.
We see that more interest in the public cloud space than we do in the private cloud space at this point in time.
And we continue to believe that our greater nearer-term challenge will probably come from Microsoft.
But that being said when we have these large industry transitions our history teaches us that typically your -- in the long term your toughest competition comes from a new company building on new technology.
And for that reason we certainly take all of the competing cloud technologies very seriously and spend a lot of time thinking about them analyzing them.
And it's for that reason that we're constructing the series of investments that we'll be bringing to market this year and in the subsequent years.
Research Division</strong> But Paul is your anticipation that the integration with vSphere and the integration would offer some leverage in the data center automation? Yes I mean the fact that a substantial portion of the world's largest companies and substantial portion of the world's server applications today are already running on a vSphere substrate.
And therefore the opportunity to provide additional automation and security and other functions into and around that substrate is a very real one for us and that constitutes the so-called depth opportunity that I said we -- I said earlier that we have.
Our next question is from Brent Thill.
Research Division</strong> Just on the license guidance for the year.
You left it relatively unchanged.
Other than tough license comps are there any other changes we should be aware of on the license side of this year in terms of how you're thinking about the forecast? No Brent.
We just -- yes as we looked at the results of Q1 and the movement through to the forecast for the second quarter it just felt like keeping the guidance the growth rates at least at the top end at 16% seem to be the prudent thing to do and then we brought the floor up from 11% to 12%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for Paul are there any new markets that you feel are opening faster for you or on the other side are there markets that you thought may have been bigger but you're not seeing it open as quick? Just trying to get a sense from your -- what you're seeing this year from a high-level perspective? Yes I think the 2 interesting trends that I am seeing is a deepening qualitative realization amongst our customers that they're going to need to do something different to achieve the operational efficiencies that they want going forward.
And that's going to mean making some hard choices and leaving some things behind potentially and sort of this notion that they can move forward by taking traditional enterprises just management and just sprinkling it -- more of it on top of all of the animals in their zoo probably isn't going to work that to really achieve the fundamental efficiencies of operating in a cloud-like manner they're now going to have to make real choices and real plans.
And we're trying to respond to that not only with our products but also as I've said with our professional services offerings.
So that's a qualitative change that we're seeing right now and I think that bodes well for the next several years as people really try and achieve more fundamental efficiencies.
At the same time people are realizing the competitive environments demand that they need to respond with new applications new experiences for their customers.
And that is an opportunity we believe for the investments that we've been making in the programming frameworks in Cloud Foundry in our GemFire data fabric technologies et cetera.
Now those will take longer there to show up in our bottom line results but the good news is that we believe that's another fundamental trend that will stand us in good stead in the longer term.
And I think the only other comment is one that we've made several times already which is the macro environment there's still this underlying nervousness about it.
And that could still affect our results going forward.
But the bottom line is is we think we're aligned with these 2 major trends in the industry.
The next question is from Phil Winslow.
Research Division</strong> This is Phil in for Credit Suisse.
Two quick questions.
First just to Mark on the balance sheet.
One of the things that you mentioned too is just the long-term deferred revenue mix which just continue to trend higher here.
Guys will come to you for obviously more years.
How do you expect that to continue to trend over the course of this year? And is there are certain level of sort of mix deferred that you think that balances out? And then Paul just another question on vCloud Director.
I mean obviously you're trying to leverage your positioning in just the virtualized data center in the vSphere to run private clouds and then theoretically to leverage the private cloud positioning to influencing the public cloud whereas the other folks are trying to come from sort of the public cloud down so to speak.
How do you sort of think about your positioning versus those others there? Yes Phil on deferred revenue -- overall deferred revenue we are seeing more of a trend towards longer term and it's just expected over time.
It's a combination of most ELAs are -- they start at 3 years and some are extending longer.
And then if you think of an ELA renewal those can tend to be a larger percentage of maintenance and so there's just less license to be recognized upfront on some of the renewals.
Yes this is Paul.
Just responding to your question about the private cloud outwards public cloud inwards we believe that you've got to do both.
Clearly our greater strength today is in the private cloud space but on the other hand I think it's underappreciated how successful we are being in the public cloud space at this point in time.
We have a special license that public cloud providers can operate off which is more of a rental license where we get paid as they get paid.
So we have pretty accurate statistics coming in on a quarterly basis of what's happening in that marketplace.
And at this point we have well over 1 500 service providers who are actively transacting off that license.
And we actually think that if you look at that pool of virtual machines if you like that are being hosted by these service providers that they are actually the largest fastest -- sorry the fastest single -- fastest-growing single segment in the public cloud space at the moment and growing at well over 100% a year.
So very strong growth there and we continue to conclude new partnerships with people who are going to be working with us in the public cloud space.
So we believe in the long run that you've got to do both and that is our strategy.
And the final question is from Jason Maynard.
LLC Research Division</strong> First for Paul speaking of large zoo animals Microsoft has actually got a couple of new products coming to market that are I think it's fair to say better than they've had in years past.
And I'd just  be curious to first get your take on what impact do you think the new windows server product will have in terms of selling management tools and also just how System Center 2012 plays into that equation given that it -- early reviews have been pretty good? And then I had a quick one for Carl since you're here.
I'm curious if the North American performance of kind of low 20% growth versus the international of 28% is the right way for us to think about the delta between the 2 regions broadly? And if there's anything in North America management change leadership stuff in the last quarter that may be contributed to that number being a little bit lower? And Mark you'll be missed and welcomed.
Okay let me jump in that quickly and address the Microsoft question.
Clearly as I said before we take them very seriously and have spent a lot of time looking at their products.
And for the 4 years that I've been here at VMware I've been asked this question fairly regularly and basically I give the same answer today as I did in the previous years which is you can only have a right to exist in this business if you continue to innovate and move the ball forward and that's exactly what we've been doing.
We've worked very hard to be able to put out a new release of our product every year and turn our crank faster than we think our competitors are turning their crank and stay ahead on a -- in terms of value of what we can offer to the customers.
And we believe that we continue to be in that position even with Microsoft's new offerings coming to market I presume later this year.
And Jason this is Mark.
We don't have Carl on a mic and -- but he and I have sat next to each other for the last 5 years and talk at least daily.
And there really isn't a significant structural change that's occurred.
It's really just part of our success.
And as Paul mentioned I think on one of his very early conference calls is that VMware started out by a company that's focused on English-language-speaking countries and we've thoughtfully been investing in the international markets since it was just an expectation as we grow that there will be a broader split between international and U.S.
revenues.
And with that we're going to end it.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
If there are any objections please disconnect at this time.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to introduce your host Mike Haase Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Welcome to VMware's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Paul Maritz; Pat Gelsinger and Carl Eschenbach.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook business acquisitions product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our third quarter quiet period begins at the close of business September 14 2012.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2011.
Finally as a reminder our Analyst Day will be held August 27 in San Francisco as part of VMworld which runs August 27 through 30.
With that let me hand it over to Carl.
Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone.
The financial and business results for our second quarter 2012 were once again strong despite the tough market conditions.
Driven by strength across our product offering and solid growth across geographies we achieved record quarterly results in total revenue license revenue and non-GAAP operating income.
Total second quarter revenues increased 22% and license revenues increased 11% compared to the same period last year.
Our non-GAAP operating margin was 31.9% for the quarter.
Trailing 12-month free cash flows were $2 billion an increase of 29% from a year ago.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments at quarter end of $5.3 billion and total unearned revenues of $2.9 billion.
Our customers continue to move along the Cloud journey by increasingly virtualizing their mission-critical applications and building out their private clouds.
Global demand for vSphere continues to be strong with a new release expected to be launched in the second half of the year and the attach rate for the vSphere adjacencies continue to be robust.
Our VMware Service Provider Program is tracking well as public cloud providers continue to leverage our cloud infrastructure platform for their service delivery.
We continue to add key partners to the program and are seeing healthy growth.
We also closed the acquisition of Wanova Cetas and Ithaca during the quarter and welcomed about 60 new employees from these acquisitions to VMware.
Last week we closed the acquisition of Dynamic Ops and today we announced the acquisition of Nicira.
We anticipate Nicira to close sometime in 2012.
Paul will speak more about these acquisitions later.
We are pleased with our results for the first half of 2012 and want to thank all of the people at VMware our partners and our customers.
Now I will walk you through the financial details.
Total revenues for the second quarter were $1 123 000 000 an increase of 22% from a year ago.
Total revenue growth on a constant-currency basis was 23%.
International revenues represented 51% of total revenue.
License revenues were $517 million up 11% from last year driven by strong demand across product offerings during the quarter.
License revenue growth on a constant-currency basis was 13%.
Enterprise License Agreements were slightly under 30% of total second quarter bookings nearly matching our record percentage from Q4 2011.
We had a healthy mix of new ELAs as well as ELA renewals in the quarter and we continue to see very nice attach rate of non-vSphere solutions to our ELAs.
We closed 4 transactions of $10 million or more during the quarter.
For comparison we had 0 transactions of $10 million or more in the second quarter of 2011.
Given the tough market conditions and the increased customer scrutiny around their IT investments our continued strong ELA results reflect the confidence customers show in the VMware platform.
Blended vSphere ASPs were up from the previous quarter reflecting higher ELA volumes which tend to include our highest end SKUs.
We are also pleased with the level of customer demand for our management and automation tools.
Solutions such as vCloud Director and vCenter Operations are seeing solid traction in the market.
Much of the increased interest for our management tools is being driven by the build out of private clouds within our customers' data centers.
As customers continue to virtualize their data centers with vSphere their interest level and management automation tools tends to increase.
And with the acquisition of Dynamic Ops we believe our position is strengthened as the infrastructure and management vendor of choice for Cloud Computing.
Dynamic Ops enables provisioning and management of IT services across heterogeneous environments VMware-based private clouds public clouds physical infrastructure multiple hypervisors and Amazon Web Services.
Our Cloud Application Platform business had record demand in the second quarter with continued adoption by some of the largest customers looking to build their next-generation applications.
In fact one of our $10 million-plus orders was driven largely from our Cloud Application Platform products including vFabric and GemFire.
This was a large and very complex solution sale to a long-standing vSphere customer.
In the second quarter we also had nice growth from our end-user computing solutions including a solid number of desktop virtualization wins across geographies and verticals.
Our repeat business continues to track well as existing customers continue to buy additional licenses.
We also saw healthy demand from new customers.
View 5.1 was launched last May and is performing well.
The acquisition of Wanova further enhances our competitive positioning with centralized image management of both physical and virtual desktops.
The Wanova Mirage solution also completes our vision of extending VDI to locally executed and off-line use cases.
Mirage is enabling seamless 2-way replication of managed window images applications and personas between the data center and a physical laptop as well as delivering them for execution as virtual machines on Windows Mac with VMware Fusion and Linux.
U.S.
revenues increased 22% year-over-year to a record $551 million and international revenues were a record $572 million also an increase of 22% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Strong demand in Japan and China led our growth in the Asia Pacific region.
We have been quite pleased with our results in the Asia Pacific region and are seeing increased opportunities for larger deals.
Our results in Europe were mixed.
Demand in several countries were slower than expected whereas we saw healthy demand in the United Kingdom France and Russia.
We are also seeing a nice expansion of our ELA business within many of EMEA's emerging markets.
And in Latin America demand continued to be strong particularly in Brazil.
We are very pleased with our progress in growing our global market presence.
The investments we have made and will continue to make in our international market expansion are clearly paying off and we are continuing to invest in these markets in the second half of 2012.
Software maintenance and support revenues were $519 million up 34% compared to last year.
And we expect maintenance revenue to continue to grow at a faster rate than license revenue.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchase illustrating their strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their data center architecture and long-term private and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional Service revenues was $87 million up 24% from last year.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $2.9 billion up 5% sequentially and 42% from a year ago.
Long-term unearned revenue is $1.1 billion and has increased 52% from last year.
The complexity of our unearned revenues has increased over time as a result of acquisitions an expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternatives.
Approximately 80% of our unearned revenue is software maintenance and will be recognized ratably.
Approximately 13% of our unearned revenue is software license revenue which will be recognized either ratably upon product delivery or upon product release.
Increasingly unearned license revenue is recognized ratably which now represents over 50% of the total unearned license revenue balance.
In addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is a result of prepaid professional services including trading which is recognized as the services are delivered.
We had a very good second quarter as we benefited from increased demand across geographical markets.
We also benefited from near-record ELAs as a percentage of total bookings.
We do not anticipate having this benefit in the third quarter and expect ELA bookings to decline as a percentage of total bookings.
In addition while the third quarter is traditionally strong for the U.S.
Federal government spending we remain cautious and have revised our earlier estimates downward for the sector.
We also remain cautious about the potential for a slower IT spending especially within the European markets and foreign exchange headwinds.
Despite these macro concerns our deal pipeline remains very strong and we expect to have a solid second half of 2012.
Demand for vSphere remains solid and we are seeing increased opportunities for larger deals that also include management and automation solutions cloud application solutions such as vFabric and GemFire and desktop virtualization.
Our deal opportunities are more complex but are also larger.
With this backdrop we expect third quarter revenues to be within a range of $1 110 000 000 to $1 150 000 000 or year-over-year growth of approximately 18% to 22%.
Third quarter license revenue is anticipated to be within a range of $470 million to $500 million growth of approximately 6% to 13% compared to last year.
This is a sequential decline from the second quarter but in line with our 2011 seasonal pattern.
For the year we are expecting total revenues of between $4.54 billion and $4.635 billion or growth of approximately 20.5% to 23% compared to 2011.
License revenue for the year is anticipated to increase within a range of 11% to 15% reflecting our expectation of a seasonally strong fourth quarter.
The revenue impact from the Nicira acquisition is expected to be negligible in 2012.
I will now provide some details on our operating margins.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our IR website.
Our Q2 operating profits measured on a non-GAAP basis was a record $358 million or 31.9% of revenues compared with 32.6% in Q1 of 2012 and 31.6% in Q2 of 2011.
Year-over-year second quarter operating margins benefited by 124 basis points from foreign exchange rates.
We ended the quarter with approximately 12 700 employees up 1 500 from the beginning of the year.
We are in a rapidly changing and dynamic environment and see significant opportunities in the adjacencies to the vSphere platform and in our emerging markets.
So you should expect that VMware will continue to hire throughout 2012 and take advantage of these opportunities.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.68 per share on 435 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 18% and the GAAP tax rate was 10.5%.
We expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 18% for 2012 and the GAAP rate to be approximately 4 to 6 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP rate.
As mentioned in our past 2 earnings call we are not planning for operating margin expansion in 2012.
We see significant long-term growth opportunities and we'll continue to invest in our product development global market expansion and go-to-market to take advantage of them.
We anticipate the ramp of our investment spending to continue during the second half of 2012.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Mike disclosed at the start of the call and incorporating our recently announced acquisition of Dynamic Ops and Nicira we now expect our non-GAAP operating margin for the third quarter to be within a range of 28.75% to 29.75%.
For the full year we expect the non-GAAP operating margin to be within a range of 30.25% to 31.25%.
The GAAP operating margins for the third quarter again taking into account the announced acquisition of Dynamic Ops and Nicira and their impact on stock-based compensation and the amortization of intangibles are anticipated to be approximately 15 to 18 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
The full year 2012 GAAP operating margin is anticipated to be approximately 13 to 15 percentage points lower.
Now onto our balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $5.3 billion up more than $100 million sequentially.
During the quarter we used nearly $325 million in aggregate for M&amp;A capital spending and our share repurchase program.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for capitalization of software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were $424 million for Q2 and $2.2 billion for the trailing 12 months.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefits because it converts the cash or reduces our tax liability.
Our total expected CapEx for 2012 is approximately $320 million to $340 million which includes the continued build out of our Stanford Research Park campus.
Free cash flows for the quarter were $380 million and $2 billion for the trailing 12 months.
Free cash flows per diluted share was $0.87 for the quarter and $4.63 for the trailing 12 months.
As we have mentioned free cash flow per share can be volatile in the short term so we believe looking at it over a trailing 12 months is a better measurement of our progress than quarterly.
Also when we look at anticipated cash flows for 2012 compared to last year keep in mind that we plan to invest about $100 million more in CapEx this year.
In addition last year our cash flows benefited from the collection of tax receivables of more than $300 million which covered both 2010 and 2011 tax years.
For 2012 we are expecting to pay U.S.
Federal and state income taxes to EMC and are therefore not expecting any collection of tax receivables this year.
Our tax receivables are dependent on various factors including tax deductions for equity-based compensation and the continuation and timing of the Federal R&amp;E tax credit.
The fully diluted share count was 435 million shares for the second quarter.
We anticipate our third quarter and full year 2012 diluted share count will be approximately 435 to 440 million shares.
To summarize we are very pleased with our execution and solid second quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making the key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth and free cash flow per share.
And despite the macro uncertainty and the potential for slowing global IT and Federal government spending we anticipate a solid second half of 2012.
We hope to see many of you at VMworld in San Francisco August 27 through 30 and our Financial Analyst Day on August 27.
Before I hand it off to Paul I would like to first thank him for his leadership over the last 4 years.
Paul will certainly be missed.
But as he reminded us last week he's not going far and he will come to our board meetings with lots of questions.
I would also like to welcome Pat to VMware and to our call.
Pat I look forward to working with you moving forward.
Now I will hand it over to Paul.
Thanks Carl.
As Carl described we are pleased with our performance during the second quarter despite the continued macroeconomic fragility.
The strength in our ELA business is a testament to the long-term value customers place on our solutions.
A constant theme of my remarks in quarters past has been the advancement of our 3-layered strategy which is designed to position VMware to benefit from big changes that will transform the IT landscape.
The first change is the remaking of the data center as we move towards the software-defined data center and a cloud approach to doing things.
The second is the advent of new approaches to developing and renewing applications.
And the third is the need to support corporate end-users in a multi-device post-PC world.
At the upcoming VMworld conventions to be held in San Francisco and Barcelona we will outline advances in each of these dimensions.
I'm pleased to report that our internal product teams have been very busy and the full breadth and depth of what they have been doing will be impressive.
In particular we'll be describing complete integrated solutions for building and managing clouds private or public.
Before I turn to today's big news Nicira I want to note several smaller but important technology acquisitions that add breadth and depth to our product line.
The first is Wanova which fits into our strategy for provisioning and the support of end-users.
The Wanova technology makes thick or thin Windows devices manageable in a very flexible and centralized way.
This solution complements our View product line and fits into our emerging horizon portfolio of multi-device end-user solutions.
The second acquisition was Cetas an early phase company addressing realtime cloud-based analytics.
This acquisition will strengthen our Cloud Applications Platform.
The third acquisition is Dynamic Ops.
This technology allows us to broaden our cloud infrastructure management and enables service requests to be provisioned across not only vCloud and vSphere but across heterogeneous clouds and physical infrastructure.
Dynamic Ops is already in use at many of our largest customers and we look forward to extending its appeal and use.
Now to Nicira our largest acquisition to date in terms of the price tag.
Where does our appetite for such a large bite come from? It comes from the first of the big forces at work that I noted earlier.
Our strategy is to be the leader in providing the software ingredients of the software-defined data center.
The whole data center industry is in the midst of a transition towards an architecture comprised largely of standardized hardware building blocks that run under the control of layers of software.
This approach provides a significant advance in terms of data center automation increasing not only scale and efficiency but agility too.
One just has to look inside the data centers of the leading public cloud services to see this beginning to play out.
Indeed VMware helped lay the foundation for this sea change by pioneering server virtualization.
By turning physical servers into software entities we were able to transform several automation and provisioning.
Now similar changes are starting to roll through other data center functions.
By extending the virtualization approach to these functions it will be possible to create virtual data centers on-demand largely in software.
VMware has already started work on network virtualization in the context of our vSphere and vShield products.
With the acquisition of Nicira VMware becomes well positioned to provide virtual network functionality not just in the context of vCloud and vSphere but to be able to provide it to other heterogeneous non-vSphere-based pools of infrastructure as well.
So this represents a deepening and a broadening of our strategy.
Now this movement toward the software-defined data center and software-defined networking does not remove the need and opportunity for others in the industry to participate.
We will continue to maintain our open approach and provide access to our networking technology and our APIs to our partners to allow them to add new value through both hardware and software enhancements as well as by providing compatibility with existing systems.
In this context we look forward to continuing to work closely with Cisco and other ecosystem partners.
This will be my last call with you as CEO of VMware.
I would like to thank the team here at VMware and in particular my partner Carl Eschenbach the members of our Executive Staff and the whole VMware community for their support and for the privilege of working with them.
As we noted last week this transition is made possible by 3 factors: our business is fundamentally strong; we have a great leadership team in place at VMware; and we have made in my friend and colleague of 30 years Pat Gelsinger a great leader to succeed me.
Lastly you may remember that my arrival at VMware 4 years ago coincided with the start of the global economic meltdown.
I'm not sure I can assure you that my transition onward will usher in the global recovery but one can always hope.
Before opening up for questions I'd like to invite Pat to say a few words and introduce himself.
Thank you Paul.
While I'm not yet officially part of the VMware team Paul and Carl suggested I sit in on the call today to reaffirm the smooth transition we are committed to achieve.
It is an honor to be asked by Paul Joe and the board to step into the CEO role of VMware.
While Paul leaves enormous shoes to fill I'm excited with the opportunity to work hard to try to fill them.
VMware is running extremely well as seen by this quarter's great results and I'm excited about their strategic direction.
As Joe commented in the executive transition call last week the time for transition is from a position of strength and VMware is definitely in that position as I step into this role.
I look forward to working closely with our customers partners and employees going forward.
With that let me hand it back to Mike.
Thanks Pat.
Operator we're going to begin the Q&amp;A process.
Also for listeners we're going to have 3 additional attendees on the Q&amp;A part 3 of our Finance Vice Presidents: Robynne Sisco; Pete Godbole and Francois Delepine.
Thanks.
Let's begin the process.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just some thoughts and follow-up to the questions that I asked when you hosted your call when Pat and Joe conducted the conference call.
Pat and Paul how do you see sales cycles changing as you uncover these large opportunities? Certainly you talked about large deals in the pipeline.
And as you roll forward with management and automation how should we think about the new TAM ahead of the total available market? And how are you going to be executing differently with your sales operations? Actually the best person to ask -- answer that question is Carl.
So Carl do you want to jump in there? Sure.
Thanks Paul and thanks Kash.
So as it relates to sale cycles we are selling a much more complex solution into the market and specifically around ELAs that include many of the adjacencies that we often speak about specifically management automation tools.
Some of our Layer 2 assets that we have as well as our View components.
And as these solution sales become more complex the sale cycle at times may take a little bit longer.
At the same time if you look at the results from our ELA success here in Q3 we were very pleased to see that we had a solid quarter in ELA execution and we anticipate that moving forward.
As it specifically relates to your second question around the total addressable market opportunity as we look at software-defined data centers and software-defined networking we clearly see a big TAM out there which is one of the reasons we went ahead with the acquisition of Nicira.
Our next question comes from Brent Thill with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Paul just on the acquisition clearly a pretty big number.
I'm just curious if you could just give us your sense of any other metrics that are on the run rate and maybe walk through what the competitive environment looks for them in this segment.
Well 2 points there.
One is it's obviously where this acquisition was made because of a strategic value as opposed to its current revenue value.
But we believe that this company VMware was founded because it was able to be early on a leader in the virtualization server space and that has built a company of enormous importance and value in the industry.
We see similar forces at work here as we move toward the software-defined data center.
We saw tremendous strategic value in being able to claim a position of leadership as we move into these new phases of the software-defined data center.
So obviously given the size of the price tag we believe that this is of the utmost strategic importance going forward.
Research Division</strong> And Paul just as a follow-up on the competitive side are you seeing anyone also in the market that's doing something similar? Yes well one of the other things that attracted us is that this was -- this asset was clearly a leader in this space.
In that sense we believe it was a somewhat unique asset and we believe that this is going to strengthen our competitive position generally.
Our next question comes from John DiFucci with JPMC.
Research Division</strong> My question has to do with the license growth.
The -- you did about 15% growth in the first quarter 11% in the second quarter reported anyway.
I guess the question's probably for Carl.
Carl what gives you the confidence that you can get -- you can do 11% to 15% for the year especially given what you've referred to many times on the call as a decelerating demand environment? I know you spoke about your pipeline but maybe you can give us perhaps a little more color around that to give us a little more confidence because it sounds like you have to put up a pretty strong fourth quarter.
Yes sure.
So 90 days ago we had a different view of the world and the market specifically in Q3 when we said we'd be sequentially flat from Q2 to Q3.
But with the continued uncertainty and the macro that we're facing specifically in Europe we had originally thought that the federal government spend would pick up going into Q3 which it traditionally does because it's our fiscal year-end.
We've revisited that earlier estimate and we've taken it down internally.
The fact that we see traditional seasonality in Q3 compared to Q2 has taken us in a line to say our Q3 number will not be sequentially flat.
In fact it will be down from Q2 to Q3.
With that being said it's in line with what we saw last year.
Last year we saw about a 5% deceleration in license in Q3 compared to Q2 and that's exactly where we've guided this year.
As it relates to Q4 again we have a very robust pipeline.
Q4 is always had been historically obviously the biggest quarter of the year for technology companies and we're no different.
We also are excited about the lineup coming out at VMworld and we'll have a lot of momentum as we head into Q4.
And lastly if you look at our growth that we're thinking about for Q4 it's in line with what we've seen from a Q3 to Q4 perspective over the last 1 to 3 years.
So again it goes back to the strength of the pipeline it goes back to VMworld momentum and it goes back to the fact that we expect Q4 as we've always seen a flush of budgets as people spend money that they have in excess as they exit a fiscal year.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's very helpful.
If I might just a quick follow-up.
You did mention I think throughout the call I think just recently I think it's -- with several acquisitions I believe it's 4 and I know Nicira was certainly a strategic value however I believe Rackspace was using them and I assume others.
What kind of a benefit at least in license might we expect from all these acquisitions realizing there's mostly strategic value here but there's got to be some kind of contribution to help some.
Obviously in the long term -- sorry this is Paul jumping in there obviously in the long term we believe these will have enormous paybacks.
But at this point in time we're doing these to strengthen our technology portfolio and position ourselves for the future so we're not expecting significant gravity contribution this year.
But in the years subsequent to that obviously we believe in that.
Our next question comes from Adam Holt with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm actually going to ask 2 follow-up questions: one on Nicira; then one on the model if I can.
On Nicira there's no doubt that this market's got tremendous potential.
It's also a very early marketplace.
Can you maybe walk us through what you saw or maybe some customer examples that got you comfortable with the maturity of the technology certainly relative to some other Nascent offerings as well? Well obviously -- this is Paul Nicira is a company we have been aware for some time and we have got to know them over the last several quarters and had developed a deepening appreciation for both the people and the technology that they have there.
Now the fact is as they have customers who are starting to prove out this technology at scale in their data centers they're in the data centers of many of the large service providers.
Rackspace was already mentioned as well as starting to make inroads into our more advanced and forward-thinking customers.
So we see this playing out in a similar way to which we saw server virtualization play out which the technology starts to come into the more advanced forward-thinking customers.
And in that context being an early leader in these emerging spaces is incredibly important and we believe that establishing a position of early leadership here will pay off just as it paid off in server virtualization.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just on the model it looked like you had a very strong quarter for ELAs.
It looked like you potentially had a very strong quarter for new ELAs.
Can you just talk a little bit about the dynamic between new business within the ELAs this quarter versus say renewals in the quarter? Yes sure.
Thanks Adam.
So as I said in my prepared remarks we were really pleased with the results of our ELA -- ELAs in the quarter powered by 3 ELAs greater than $10 million as compared to none -- I'm sorry 4 compared to none last year.
And 3 of those 4 were net new ELAs and 1 was a renewal so both new ELA business was extremely healthy to your point and the renewal business remained healthy as well.
This only shows the fact that customers continue to see the long-term value of our platform and are buying into 2- and 3-year ELA terms with us to continue to build out both their private and hybrid cloud platforms.
Research Division</strong> Our next question comes from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
The first one was what percentage of license bookings were related to management and also to end-user computing? Those are stats you guys have given out in the past.
And then also I don't know Paul if this is a question for you but how do you see your success in the virtualization layer and a growing presence of customers using your automation solutions helping to position you for the SDN space? I'm wondering how you see those other 2 layers as a competitive advantage and how you see them the solutions getting sold over time.
Heather I'll take the first question.
This is Carl.
As you know we don't break out individual products or product suites like management or end-user computing particularly View but we have said in the past that we've been happy with our attach rate as a percentage of license and it was about 10% for each -- both management and end-user computing.
And that's about exactly what we saw this quarter as well.
Paul on the second question? Sure.
So Heather the -- as you've heard us say before we believe at the end of the day we are in the data center automation business.
And to be in the data center automation business one has to be able to speak to the automation of all the key functions in the data center.
So having the ability to play in the software-defined networking space we see as very important when you combine it with our traditional strength in server virtualization and in management and in other areas such as securities which we're addressing through our vShield products.
So we believe that success in the long run there comes through the coordination of all of the factors that play in the data center and as such this is a very important step in that direction.
Research Division</strong> And I guess Paul just as a follow-up was the networking space a bottleneck in the past for people kind of modernizing their data centers to get to where you envision them needing to be? Yes particularly as you move to larger scale data centers there the networking has proved to be a real issue that has to be addressed which is why you see this technology being adopted first in the data centers the public cloud data centers that already have confronted these issues.
Our next question comes from Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 numbers questions.
First just curious the long-term deferred revenue here continue to grow a lot faster than the short-term deferred revenue.
And I'm wondering is license a meaningful driver of that long-term deferred revenue number? I'll take that Walter.
So it's a combination of things.
As we do more ELAs they include typically 2 and 3 years of maintenance which drives our longer-term revenue deferral as well as more and more of our ELAs have aspects or characteristics of them that have us taking the license revenue ratably over time.
And they are 2 determining factors in the growth of long-term unearned revenue.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the linearity in the quarter looks like DSO spiked up a bit.
The AR balance was a little higher than we were expecting.
How much -- Carl if you could comment on what you saw throughout the quarter and was it more a back-end loaded quarter than you've typically seen in a Q2 or any other quarter? Yes the reason you saw that spike-up is not from any deterioration in our receivables.
It's actually due to the strong billings that we had coming out of Q4 which makes our cash receivables and collectibles in Q1 strong.
And here in Q2 obviously the bookings weren't as strong as they were coming out of Q1 as they were compared to Q4.
And that's what's driving the difference of a couple days in DSOs.
Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> There were some press reports earlier.
I wonder if I could get you to comment on -- about possibly spinning out some of the cloud assets? Rick this is Paul.
Two points first of all just want to draw a line under the fact that we see the cloud investments we've made such as Cloud Foundry as being absolutely critical and if anything we intend to put -- further emphasize behind those assets going forward.
Second point is as I transition on from the CEO role here one of the things that I'm going to be doing is thinking about actually as to how to use those assets even more effectively in the future and there's more thinking to be done at -- on that front.
But we have no specific plans at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the ELA environment sometimes when things get a little tougher in the economy ELAs are the area that you see some increasing sale cycles.
People cut back in the quarter.
It looks like ELAs did quite well.
It sounds like you're a little more cautious about ELAs going forward.
Is that reflecting the environment? I think it's a couple of things.
Again I think seasonality has us being a little bit cautious as we enter into Q3.
We typically see a decrease in our ELA as a percentage of total bookings as compared to Q2.
But again I think we were pretty pleased with the fact that while some of these larger deals are getting scrutinized by another set of eyes in our customers we were still able to close the business in a timely manner which shows the value of the platform and the fact that the customers want to commit to long-term agreements with VMware despite the tough economical challenges we're faced with today.
Our next question comes from Phil Winslow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just got a question on the management tool side and particularly vCloud Director.
Just wondering if you could give us an update there just kind of this quarter.
And as you look into the second half of this year and the next year how are you expecting sort of those test environments in that pipeline to translate into bookings revenue? As I said earlier we don't break out specific product lines as a percentage of license.
But I did say that we were very pleased with the adjacency attach rate on ELAs and non-ELAs specifically around management and automation.
We are pleased with the uptake of vCloud Director and we're really excited with the fact that we're bringing in Dynamic Ops to manage more than just VMware environments as well.
So those 2 combination -- those 2 as a combination gives us a lot of excitement as we look at the second half of the year.
And we believe the attach rate to ELAs could only strengthen moving forward.
This is Paul here.
This is an area where we continue to move the bull down the field.
And as was noted in our earlier remarks come the VMworlds this year we expect to see really interesting new functionality disclosed then.
Our next question comes from Brian Marshall with the ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on the Nicira transaction.
It's obviously pretty exciting.
Our understanding is basically their solution decouples the application from the network and basically cuts the physical IP address link from the VM to the physical network itself.
Therefore is this kind of viewed as more of a business velocity play as opposed to a CapEx or an OpEx play? And if that's the case is that why some of the partners that you have today on the working side may -- might not view this transaction in all that unfavorable light? This is Paul.
As I said earlier this is ultimately all about automation.
What people want to do is to be able to synthesize pools of infrastructure on-the-fly to satisfy the needs of a particular set of applications or a customer and to be able to then reconfigure that as business needs change.
So within a world where automation is the goal as I said earlier that doesn't preclude the need or the opportunity to have specific solutions that can work along with the basic layer of control that's providing the automation.
So we don't see this as a zero sum game by any matter of means.
Our next question comes from Mark Moerdler with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Nicira looks like a really interesting acquisition guys.
So how do you plan to rationalize the sales models of the cloud-enabling technologies you've already acquired and are acquiring between some being open-source some license and maintenance? What's your sense of what's going to be the right methodology? I can jump in there and handle that just -- we already have a blended strategy where we use both traditionally licensed for software and open-source software so that is nothing new.
And I think everyone in the industry today to a great or lesser extent has to deal with that.
The thing at the end of the day is is the customer getting value and they can get that value from either purchasing the software or purchasing the support that goes around that software or purchasing value-added components that plug into that.
So we already have that aspect to our product line.
We're able to deal with it in a fairly straightforward way.
Generally receive positive reaction from our customers and we don't expect that to change.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Do think that'll be -- it's a similar type of mix in the cloud? Yes and as I said I think everyone has had to come to grips with that.
There are some things that have to be supplied if you want them to become widely adopted through an open-source model but there's always has to be value added.
At the end of the day our salaries have to get paid one way or the other and customers realize that and they're willing to pay for additional value.
Our next question comes from Laura Lederman with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> When you look at the software-defined networking space do you think we're like 3 years from general acceptance where it's not just larger service providers and the most forward-looking type of organizations? So maybe we can talk about sort of the life cycle of that type of product and when you see it being more mainstream or in any way wish to kind of outline how you expect it to happen over time.
Obviously we're on day 1 of this acquisition so it's a little early to give you specific time frames here.
But as with any new technology we see it spreading into either people who have an immediate overwhelming need for it today or into more forward-thinking customers who anticipate their needs for it and start moving early.
And we see this technology unfolding exactly that way.
We see it going into large scale service providers who have an immediate need for it and we see it starting to go into forward-thinking corporate customers.
And whether that's going to be a 2-year cycle or a 3-year cycle I can't say to you today but the one thing I can say with absolute certainty that this is the tide coming in.
Research Division</strong> Have customers asked you for this type of technology? Is it something that's been coming up an awful lot when you're talking to more forward-looking customers who are paying financial services or other industries? It's coming as you said from the 2 constituencies that I said.
And -- but it was exactly the same thing with virtualization.
Customers didn't ask us for virtualization 12 years ago.
Our next question comes from Jason Maynard with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a question probably for both Paul and Pat.
And sort of following up on this thread taking Nicira out of the equation for a second what percentage of -- let's just say the traditional networking space do you think OpenFlow could realistically address within 5 years? And then a follow-up question to that would be Google's been a big proponent of this.
And if you look back over the last couple of months they've even had a lot of public events where they've been talking about their own implementation.
And one of the bottlenecks it sounds like has been there is no white box networking champion.
There isn't somebody who provides just the basic switch with merchant silicon to actually provide if you will the building block.
And I'm curious how do you see that playing out in terms of your own rollout and go to market with customers? Is that something that VMware would potentially do? Is that something that EMC does? Does it sit inside of VCE or is there a third-party ecosystem that you think going to emerge to address that issue? Well maybe I'll start and Paul might help.
But with regard to the size of this market I think it's very early to put a particular TAM on it.
Overall the networking market has pretty well diagnosed how large it is and this is not so much about changing how the networking market operates today but creating a layer of agility and management control for these large-scale service providers for the future.
And in that sense I think there's been much written that would say it's all about commoditizing today's hardware and we actually take a very different view of that.
It's about creating this automation and this next layer of flexibility for these large-scale service providers.
And that's why we're finding this to be such an interesting opportunity so complementary to the value proposition that VMware has been pursuing in the past.
And with regard to white box networking and some of those types of things that have been discussed we have no plans in that area whatsoever.
Our final question comes from Shaul Eyal with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> One quick question on your kind of relations with Cisco.
Nicira I'm thinking given some of the chatter in the Bay Area seems to be one of the companies that kind of could be described as kind of being disruptive to kind of Cisco's strategy and kind of what Cisco's involvement with you guys.
How would you kind of describe this kind of triangle between the 3 companies? This is Paul.
First of all as I said earlier we don't see this as a zero sum game.
Particularly if you take Pat's previous remarks this is really about building a layer on top of existing and future network functions.
And there's always going to be the opportunity for people who can do things well within their layer to reach up and ask the automation layer to delegate a task through them and have that task performed in an accelerated superior way.
So we see the opportunity here really to continue to build and extend the ecosystem rather than this as being something that is an a versus b approach.
Okay.
Thank you.
That will end the call.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
That does conclude the call at this time.
All participants may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is also being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now I'll turn the call over to your host today Mr.
Paul Ziots Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Welcome to VMware's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger and Carl Eschenbach.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our fourth quarter quiet period begins at the close of business December 14 2012.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2011.
With that let me hand it over to Carl.
Thanks Paul and good afternoon everyone.
The financial and business results of our third quarter 2012 were once again strong despite a tough economic environment.
The quarter went as expected and we achieved record quarterly results for total revenue and non-GAAP operating income.
Total revenue for the third quarter increased 20% and license revenue increased 11% as compared with the same period last year.
Our non-GAAP operating margin was 32.2%.
Trailing 12-month free cash flows were $1.9 billion.
After investing approximately $1.2 billion for acquisitions including Nicira and DynamicOps our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments at quarter end of $4.4 billion.
We ended the quarter with total unearned revenues of $3 billion.
Before I walk through financial details for the quarter I'll first provide perspective on our business.
Based on a record turnout at our recent VMworld user conferences we see further validation that our customers are accelerating their journey to cloud computing.
We hosted approximately 29 000 registered attendees at VMworld events in San Francisco and Barcelona and planned to host more than 20 000 people in the coming weeks at our Asia Pacific VForums and VMware Solutions Symposium series.
At these events we answered two of our customers' major questions about cloud computing.
The questions we hear most often are regarding what technology is needed in transitioning IT from a traditional siloed environment to a cloud environment and how IT should operate in this new cloud era.
The Software-Defined Datacenter has emerged as the clear path to cloud computing and has significantly expanded VMware's market opportunities.
VMware's recent announcement of our vCloud Suite is our solution to the Software-Defined Datacenter.
It is an integrated suite of virtualized compute storage network and management functionality.
The vCloud Suite enables customer to automate IT and move them from being reactive in nature to becoming dynamic organizations that can deliver innovation.
Although vCloud Suite became generally available late in the quarter and it's still early going we're pleased with the initial bookings figures for Q3.
Most suite sales have been tied to ELAs just as we had anticipated.
Cloud Ops is a set of consulting services provided by VMware and our Partner Ecosystem.
It's a roadmap for the necessary business and IT transitions customers need to take as they migrate to Software-Defined Datacenter.
Response to both the vCloud Suite and Cloud Ops have been encouraging from both partners and customers alike.
Feedback on our removal of vRAM pricing limits in the third quarter has been overwhelmingly positive.
The resulting simplification in our pricing practices has made VMware easier to do business with and remove a potential obstacle in closing deals.
And our VMware service provider program once again tracked well in the quarter as public cloud providers continue to leverage our cloud infrastructure program for their service delivery.
We believe this ecosystem of providers is second only to Amazon in public cloud market share and this program is one of the faster-growing parts of our business with year-over-year bookings growth of greater than 50% in Q3.
We're very pleased with the early interest around Nicira.
The level of excitement from cloud and service providers had been even stronger than anticipated.
We've also seen enthusiasm from our largest enterprise customers.
There are a number of proof of concepts underway that we expect to gradually move into production environments over time.
Software-defined networking is still in its early days but the great interest we've seen in Nicira only further validates our proud role as the SDN industry leader.
In summary we're pleased with our results for the third quarter and want to thank all of the people at VMware our partners and our customers.
In addition we want to welcome our new employees from Nicira DynamicOps and Pattern Insight.
Now I will walk through the financial details.
Total revenues for the third quarter were $1 134 000 000 an increase of 20% from a year ago.
Total revenue growth on a constant currency basis was 22%.
International revenues represented 51% of total revenues.
License revenues were $491 million up 11% from last year and up 14% year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
Enterprise License Agreements were just over 24% of total third quarter bookings versus over 29% in Q2.
This is an approximate 5% decline from Q2 and similar to the sequential change we experienced in Q3 last year.
We had a healthy mix of new ELAs as well as ELA renewals in the quarter and we continue to see a very nice attach rate of non-vSphere solutions to our ELAs.
Given the tough market conditions and increased customer scrutiny surrounding their IT investments our continued strong ELA results reflect the confidence customer shows in the VMware platform.
Blended vSphere ASPs for Q3 were at the same level as the second quarter.
Demand was strong for our cloud operations management tools including VC OPS and our cloud provisioning and automation tools.
Much of the increased interest for these tools is being driven by the build out of private clouds within our customers' data centers.
As customers continue to virtualize their data centers with vSphere their interest level in our management and automation tools also increases.
With the acquisition of DynamicOps which is now known as vCloud Automation Center we believe our position is strengthened as the infrastructure and management vendor of choice for cloud computing.
At VMworld Barcelona we announced that the vCloud Automation Center is now part of our vCloud Suite product set and will be generally available in Q4.
Bookings for our cloud application platform business also grew year-over-year.
Just last week we hosted over 1 000 attendees of our annual SpringOne developer conference in Washington D.C.
Our end-user computing solutions also had nice bookings growth year-over-year with an uptake in deals over $1 million.
We saw healthy demand for our core desktop virtualization product View particularly in the healthcare sector where we've been building out a specialized practice.
Our personal desktop products had a strong quarter.
Following the release of Fusion 5 our Windows on Mac offering and Workstation 9 the latest version of our personal virtualization software.
Turning to geo performance in Q3.
U.S.
revenues increased 25% year-over-year to a record $554 million and international revenues reached a record $580 million an increase of 16% as compared with third quarter 2011.
U.S.
federal government bookings grew slightly year-over-year and finished higher than expected especially considering Q3 of 2011 was a very strong quarter for federal business.
Strong demand in Japan and China once again led our growth in the Asia Pacific region and we are continuing to see increased opportunities for larger deals in these countries and many others.
China India Korea and our Southeast Asia region all had record quarters.
These markets in Asia Pacific plus other emerging markets around the world remain prime candidates for our core virtualization product.
Weakness in Australia was an exception in the Asia Pacific region due to deteriorating conditions in the non-mining sectors of the economy.
European results were mixed.
Demand in many countries was slower than expected especially in Central and Southern Europe.
Whereas we had healthy year-over-year bookings growth in the United Kingdom.
Management products continued to do well as did End-User Computing where we closed $1 million-plus Lenovo deal in France.
Latin America demand remains strong particularly in Mexico and Brazil.
We are continuing to make progress in growing our global market presence.
The investments we have made in our international market expansion are paying off and we plan to keep investing in these markets in Q4 and beyond.
Turning to services.
Software maintenance and support revenue was $551 million up 29% as compared to last year.
Customers continue to buy on average more done 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased illustrating their strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their datacenter architecture and long-term private and hybrid cloud strategy.
Professional services revenue was $92 million also up 29% from last year as we helped our customers with the business and technological skills necessary for migrating to the Software-Defined Datacenter.
We were particularly pleased with our growth in education revenue.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $3 billion up 2% sequentially and up 34% from a year ago.
Long-term unearned revenue is $1.1 billion and has increased 46% from last year.
The complexity of unearned revenue has increased over time as a result of acquisitions and expanded product portfolio and a broader range of pricing and packaging alternatives.
80.7% of our unearned revenue is software maintenance and will be recognized ratably.
12.2% of our unearned revenue is software license revenue which will be recognized either ratably or upon product delivery.
Increasingly unearned license revenue is recognized ratably which now represents over 50% of the total unearned license revenue balance.
In addition 7.1% of our unearned revenue is the result prepaid professional services including education which is recognized as the services are delivered.
We had a solid third quarter with slightly better-than-anticipated business with the U.S.
federal government offset by challenges in some countries particularly within the EMEA region and Australia.
We remained cautious about the potential for slower IT spending as we exit 2012 and we enter 2013.
Despite these macro concerns our deal pipeline remains solid as we enter Q4.
Initial demand for the vCloud Suite has been encouraging and we are continuing to see increased opportunities for large deals that also include management and automation solutions cloud application solutions and desktop virtualization.
With this backdrop we expect fourth quarter revenues to be within a range of $1 260 000 000 to $1 290 000 000 or a year-over-year growth of approximately 19% to 22%.
Fourth quarter license revenue is anticipated to be within a range of $587 million to $605 million or growth of approximately 14% to 18% as compared with last year.
For fiscal 2012 we are expecting total revenues of between $4.572 billion and $4.602 billion an increase of 21.4% to 22.2% as compared with 2011.
This has the same mid-point as our guidance we provided for 2012 on our July earnings call and we reaffirmed at our financial Analyst Day in August.
License revenue for the year is anticipated to increase within a range of 12.8% to 13.8% reflecting our continued expectation of a seasonably strong Q4.
I will now provide some details on our operating margins.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis which are reconciled in the press release tables and posted on our IR website.
Our Q3 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was a record $365 million or 32.2% of revenue as compared with 31.9% in Q2 2012 and 30.3% in Q3 2011.
Year-over-year third quarter operating margins benefited by 130 basis points from foreign exchange rates.
We ended the quarter with approximately 13 300 employees.
This includes about 600 net additions within the quarter.
Q3 ending headcount is up by approximately 2 100 from the beginning of the year.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS was $0.70 per share on 433 million diluted shares.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 18% and the GAAP tax rate was 19.7%.
We expect the non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 18% for 2012 and the GAAP tax rate to be approximately 2 to 4 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP rate.
The full year GAAP tax rate is expected to be a little higher than our prior guidance and is driven by the impact of the Nicira acquisition.
Our non-GAAP operating margins exceeded our expectations in Q3 due to 3 main factors: Firstly we decided to temporarily slow down hiring and marketing spend due to uncertainties in how Europe would perform and how the federal government fiscal year would end.
Secondly our professional services business had a favorable shift in mix towards higher-margin education business; and thirdly we had conservatively assumed an earlier close date for Nicira.
While we benefited from these factors in Q3 we see significant long-term growth opportunities and we will continue to ramp our investments in product development global market expansion and go-to-market capabilities.
With that in mind and taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Paul disclosed at the start of the call we now expect our non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter to be within a range of 31.5% to 32.5% including the full quarter impact of our acquisitions DynamicOps and Nicira.
For the full year we expect the non-GAAP operating margin to be within a range of 32% to 32.3%.
The GAAP operating margin for the quarter also taking into account these recent acquisitions and their impact on stock-based compensation and their amortization of intangibles is anticipated to be approximately 13.5 to 15.5 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margin.
The full year 2012 GAAP operating margin is anticipated to be approximately 13.5 to 14 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margin.
Now onto our balance sheet and cash flow statement.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter-end of $4.4 billion down approximately $950 million sequentially.
During the quarter we used over $1.4 billion in aggregate for M&amp;A capital spending and our share repurchase program.
Non-GAAP operating cash flows which exclude adjustments for capitalization of software development costs and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were $461 million for Q3 and $2.1 billion for the trailing 12 months.
We adjust our operating and free cash flows for excess tax benefits because it converts to cash or reduces our tax liability.
Our total expected CapEx for 2012 is approximately $250 million to $270 million which is down from our prior guidance of $320 million to $340 million.
The reduction is primarily due to construction schedule changes for our Palo Alto campus which will push expenditures into the first half of next year.
Free cash flows for the quarter were $386 million and $1.9 billion for the trailing 12 months.
Free cash flow per diluted share was $0.89 for the quarter and $4.38 for the trailing 12 months.
As a reminder last year our cash flows benefited from collection of tax receivables of more than $300 million which covered both 2010 and 2011 tax years.
For 2012 we are expecting to pay U.S.
federal and state income taxes to EMC and are therefore not expecting any collection of tax receivables this year.
The fully diluted share count was 433 million shares for the third quarter.
We anticipate our fourth quarter and full year 2012 diluted share count will be approximately 434 million to 435 million shares.
To summarize we are pleased with our execution and solid third quarter performance.
We continue to manage our resources prudently while making key investments necessary to maximize our long-term growth.
And despite the macro uncertainties and potential for slowing global IT and federal government spending we do anticipate a solid Q4.
Regarding 2013 it is not certain how economies around the world will grow.
Macro concerns in EMEA have not been subsiding and our experience in various countries within the region reflects spotty performance.
Some economic reports have also reduced growth forecasts for other parts of the world.
While we are comfortable with our guidance for Q4 given these macro uncertainties we have decided to not provide an outlook at this time for Q1 2013 and plan to provide an update to you on our Q4 call in January.
Before I hand it off to Pat I want to say a few words about how excited I am to welcome Jonathan Chadwick as our new CFO.
Jonathan's management style and professional experience as a CFO at Skype and McAfee plus his 13-year tenure as a Senior Finance Executive at Cisco including nearly 3 years as Principal Accounting Officer make him a perfect fit for VMware.
I am very happy turning over the CFO reins to such an accomplished and capable executive.
I also want to thank our finance team for their tremendous support during this transition and for all their efforts put forth over the past 6 months.
I expect our upcoming CFO transition to be as smooth as our CEO transition.
And with that it's my pleasure to turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Carl.
I want to start off by thanking the entire VMware team for their strong efforts in making this a solid quarter in a tough economic environment.
I also want to thank my friend and colleague Paul Maritz for working closely with me in making a seamless transition.
I'll add to Carl's comments about VMworld by saying wow what an impressive experience.
VMworld San Francisco in August and VMworld Barcelona this month showcased a vibrant overwhelming passion flowing through the VMware ecosystem.
Customer loyalty to VMware is strong and feedback on the vCloud Suite strategy has been resoundingly positive.
Since VMworld San Francisco I've been engaging with customers partners and employees through many group and one-on-one interactions my very positive impressions are that VMware has deep brand and customer loyalty an incredible partner ecosystem and an almost infectious passion on the part of our employees for what we do and what we stand for as a company.
These interactions and impressions reinforce my view that we are on track with our strategy which is to transform data center infrastructure create new approaches to developing and renewing applications and support corporate end-users in a multi-device post-PC world.
VMware lit a spark in the industry by introducing our vision of the Software-Defined Datacenter and by acquiring Nicira.
Our recently-announced vCloud Suite which Carl just spoke about is the first embodiment of this vision.
We see a large part of the company's long-term growth coming from the vCloud Suite as it delivers on the promise of cloud computing for agile elastic efficient and reliable IT services by extending the benefits of virtualization and automation to every domain of the datacenter: Compute storage networking and management.
We also see opportunities for growth as we expand our product offerings for customers in both private and public multi-cloud heterogeneous worlds.
This is our hybrid cloud strategy which is clearly demonstrated by the Cloud Foundry the only multi-cloud PaaS environment which provides cross cloud support whether from VMware from vCloud partners or others.
vCloud Automation Center which Carl also spoke about helps VMware extend our vCloud Director capabilities to cover cross-cloud Infrastructure as a Service Platform as a Service and Desktop as a Service and set in place a common storefront for policy-based provisioning of workloads on any cloud.
And Nicira which provides us the ability to extend software-defined networking to a broader set of heterogeneous infrastructure pools.
It complements the networking technologies already built into the vCloud Suite for this purpose.
All of these capabilities help drive an expanded role for VMware in the datacenter as we are the company customers increasingly turn to for help in transforming their IT and their business.
Moving forward my priorities are to refine and accelerate our strategy.
An example of this acceleration is the unification of the Nicira networking assets with those already under development by VMware to provide the best software-defined networking offerings in the market.
This focus will help us continue building out our vision by strengthening software-defined networking technologies as a core pillar of our Software-Defined Datacenter platform.
We plan to accelerate the adoption of software-defined networking through both service providers and enterprise customers.
Now I'd like to switch gears and welcome Jonathan Chadwick our new CFO who'll be joining Carl and me on the next earnings call.
Jonathan brings incredible experience from his long tenure at Cisco and as CFO at Skype and McAfee.
We are thrilled to have someone of Jonathan's stature joining our leadership team on November 5.
And finally I'd like to thank Carl for doing double duty as both COO and CFO over the last 6 months.
Carl has shown the true spirit and culture of VMware employees simply doing whatever is required to get the job done no matter what the challenges might be.
With that let me hand it back to Paul to start the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Pat.
Melissa we're going to start the Q&amp;A process.
Also for our listeners we're going to have 3 finance executives attend the Q&amp;A portion of the call Pete Godbole Francois Delepine and Mark Lang.
Let's begin the process.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from John DiFucci JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Questions for Carl.
Carl you talked about Europe and the U.S.
Federal government.
But can you talk about another important demand source at least I have some concern about that's financial services.
And what's implied in the guidance for this important vertical? Yes.
Thanks John.
So as we indicated right we did see some challenges in Europe and I think our peer groups have indicated the same as well.
But on the reverse we were very pleased with our results in the Federal government sector in the U.S.
As it relates to financial services this is the second quarter in a row where we were actually very pleased with our financial services results.
And as a vertical these companies continue to either renew their ELAs or expand their existing ones and look to get more of our management and automation solutions to help drive more of their private Cloud infrastructure as opposed to just a highly virtualized environment.
So John we have been very pleased with the results and we continue to look at that as a growth vertical for us both today and in the future.
The next question is from Adam Holt Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up to John's question about what's embedded in the fourth quarter number.
It doesn't look like the guide implies an acceleration for license revenue.
Could you maybe walk through what gets you comfortable there? And specifically what do you expect to see on the ELA front? And it looks to us like your ELA should start to become a tailwind in terms of the amount that are up for renewal? Sure.
Thanks Adam.
So a couple things so let me address why we're confident in the guidance we're providing for Q4.
I think there's really 3 primary reasons: number one when we look at our current pipeline we think it's a solid pipeline and it actually does actually support our guidance; second we've now had almost a full month to work with our geo [ph] leaders around the world and do a bottoms up forecast from the sales teams.
And once again we're confident in the forecast in how it relates to the guidance we've tried for Q4; and lastly we're very excited that we will have our vCloud Suite available for the full quarter.
And as you know it's something we announced at VMworld in Q3.
We only really had 2 weeks to sell it in the third quarter.
So we believe that having the vCloud Suite available for the entire Q4 will allow us to have a very good Q4 especially as it relates to ELAs.
And as you've seen in prior years Adam Q4 is traditionally the largest quarter for ELAs both new and renewals and we have confidence we'll see that same type of business dynamic here in Q4.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask a quick follow-up.
You mentioned that the pricing change was roundly well-received by your customer base.
Where do you think you saw that manifested? Did you see that in better win rates? Better competitive? Fewer attrition? What -- where do you actually see the benefit of the pricing change? No problem Adam.
So we saw it actually in a couple places.
Number one the feedback from our channel -- let me start with that area first.
The feedback from the channel was extremely favorable.
And based on their interactions with customers they believe it actually removed a potential barrier to closing deals both in Q3 and in Q4 moving forward.
From our direct conversations interactions with customers all of them believe we have now simplified the pricing model from VMware which allows them to more easily secure consume and deploy our solutions under a common licensing scheme.
Where in the past as you know we had multiple licensing scheme based on vRAM limitations and based on a per VM charge for our management automation products.
So our customers are excited about this simplification.
The customers are excited that they can deploy as many virtual machines per CPU or socket as they want without having to sit back and monitor and manage what they're consuming from a vRAM perspective.
Our next question comes from Kash Rangan Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You sounded obviously very excited about the prospects for vCloud Suite.
I just wanted to get a little understanding it looks like I'm having a bit of a disconnect between the comment of 24 months of support the ELAs as a percentage of your bookings are roughly flat on a year-over-year basis.
I do see that they were down sequentially but at the same time your deferred revenues have typically grown even more than they have going from Q2 to Q3.
They appear to be a bit on the soft [ph] is this because of a change in billings and customers and how customers want to engage in contracts or just a timing of how certain deals got pushed out into Q4? Any color you can offer to help me bridge the understanding will be great.
Sure.
So let me address your first question regarding the amount of SnS customers who purchased from us on each license.
And it is once again greater than 24 months that's both a combination of ELAs and non-ELAs where typically we see more in ELAs because they're 2- and 3-year terms.
But in general we see a continued purchase of multiple years of support for each license again both ELA and non-ELA.
As it relates to the sequential change if you will in our deferred license from Q2 to Q3 I think there's 3 or 4 different factors there: Number 1 clearly...
Research Division</strong> Carl it was more on the total deferred.
Not so much in deferred license but the total deferred itself has grown more from Q2 to Q3 in years prior than it has in this quarter.
So I think there's a couple reasons to that as well Kash.
Number one as I indicated in my prepared remarks we saw some macro headwinds in Europe as well in Australia.
So our bookings were lower in those regions specifically in Southern Europe than we had anticipated.
Another thing you need to keep in mind here is last year we launched our vSphere 5 platform in early July roughly July 11.
This year we launched our vCloud Suite our vSphere 5.1 product and platform at VMworld and we didn't have the opportunity to actually sell it into the market until mid-September.
So we had a delta of 6 to 8 weeks in selling our new product this year versus last year so that's definitely had an impact.
And then another as just as you know as I said in my prepared remarks our deferred license actually gets recognized over time ratably based on product delivery and other promotions that tie to the ELA.
Specifically this year in Q3 how things rolled off the books we actually saw a $6 million increase against our midpoint of guidance for license that also impacted our license as a whole.
And then the last thing I would say is when you look at our ELA opportunity within the given quarter if you go back and look at our typical ELA cycle being 2 to 3 years in 2009 not being the greatest year for ELAs the total addressable market opportunity as it relates to renewing of ELAs was smaller in Q3.
And as you know ELAs typically have greater than 50% SnS or maintenance associated with them.
So the decrease in license associated with ELAs in Q3 also had a compounding effect to our SnS.
And they're the reasons you're going to see not as big of an increase in total deferred coming out of Q3 this year versus last.
The next question comes from Phil Winslow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get some more details on just the management tool side in particular just sort of what you're seeing in vCloud Director.
And then obviously the pricing changes you just made this summer with the introduction of vSuite.
Just sort of what's been the -- any initial feedback from customers on that? Do you think this is going to help spur some of those proof-of-concepts and pilot tests that are going on there with vCloud Director et cetera to actually take on the full suite and really drive the attach rates of management tools up? Yes sure.
So we've been very pleased with the growth of our management automation tools and we've seen a very nice attach rate overall to vSphere specifically more in ELAs only because when people buy an ELA they're traditionally buying the entire suite or solution that we have to offer.
And when people are looking to deploy a private Cloud they clearly need management automation to do so.
When we look at the vCloud Suite as you know we've now included a lot of the management automation products including vCloud Director in each of the 3 different suite offerings and we actually have a very exciting promotion that we have out right now that allows our Enterprise Plus customers to upgrade to the first level of the vCloud Suite to take advantage of vCloud Director as a provisioning and automation tool for a private cloud.
So what we've seen so far is we've seen a nice uptake in the promotion and we expect here in Q4 a very nice uptake in the vCloud Director -- I'm sorry the vCloud Suite of products and it will be specifically tied to ELAs more than non-ELAs.
The other thing I would just mention is we've been very excited with the initial interest and uptake of our DyanmicOps solution which is now known as vCloud Automation Center and that also has now become part of the vCloud Suite.
So I think going forward one way to look at the business might be more around the holistic solution that we're delivering through the vCloud Suite and that will give a better picture or representation on our attach rates of our automation and management tools in the future.
Let me just add Carl.
Yes we clearly have also seen the strength of VC OPS our the operations elements of that.
And that just reinforces the value of the overall suite to the management tools.
The next question comes from Heather Bellini Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
One I think Carl if you could talk with us a little bit about how big you view vCloud Suite for the ELA cycle in 2013? And then the follow up is listening to your response to Kash if we kind of take a look at the trajectory of the DR build in Q4 should we expect a better than seasonal growth rate given the softness this quarter especially given the big jump in ELAs that you signed in the fourth quarter of '09 knowing that the third quarter was kind of bare bones in terms of ELAs? Heather just real quick the second question again could you just -- it's something about [indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Well the -- I'm trying to get a sense of the trajectory of the deferred revenue build in Q4 because this quarter was sub-seasonal right? And I heard your response to Kash but should we expect a better than seasonal growth rate in the fourth quarter of this year? Because if you look back the third quarter of '09 you really didn't sign any ELAs for obvious reasons.
Then in the fourth quarter of '09 you had this massive jump sequentially.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how we should be thinking about the seasonality of DR in Q4 because that seems to be where a lot of the questions are centered around at least in my inbox.
Sure.
Sure it's not a problem.
Thanks Heather for the clarification there.
So let me in reverse order and talk about the deferred revenue as it relates to Q4.
So we have obviously provided guidance for Q4 which was consistent with what we did last quarter.
We have not made any changes to our guidance in Q4.
I would say that we expect to build deferred license revenue coming out of Q4 but not at the rate we did last year.
We think there's still some challenges in the economy we still think there's some headwind that we have as we look out in the global market.
And therefore we would not expect to build as much deferred license revenue as we did in Q4 of last year.
Research Division</strong> What about collected deferred revenue though? Yes.
In deferred revenue I would say the same.
Right? Deferred license is a component of deferred revenue which includes SnS so I would say the same.
We should not expect to build deferred revenue as a whole at the same rate that we did last Q4.
As far as the vCloud Suite as you know Heather I indicated we're not going to provide any guidance for Q1 at this time.
I can tell you we are working on the modeling of the vCloud Suite and the impact to 2013 in Q1.
And we thought it was prudent to get through Q4 see the uptake of the vCloud Suite in both ELAs a non-ELAs and then we'll provide more guidance on Q1 in 2013 during our January call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up do you see this though as a big ELA -- for the ELAs that are renewing given that there is a significant increase versus this year is this a big potential attach in your opinion? At this time we do believe that the biggest attach rate for vCloud Suites will be to the ELAs for those people looking to build out an entire complement of a private Cloud for VMware.
We think all the management automation tools that we've positioned in the suite itself is clearly something that will help drive the growth of ELAs and the renewing of ELAs that we have going into 2013.
The next question comes from Brent Thill UBS.
Research Division</strong> Carl on the U.S you had a good quarter actually accelerating growth.
Can you just give us your view on what's happening in the U.S.
when you x out Europe in your pipeline? And I was curious if you could just comment on September? There were some other large tech companies that said September got soft.
I was curious if you saw the same thing in September? Yes.
Sure.
So we did have a strong quarter in the U.S.
and primarily driven off the back of the Federal government.
I think everyone was sitting back as they entered September including us wondering whether or not we would see the traditional fiscal year end flush come out of Federal.
We think we fair better than most in the percentage of wallet spend that came our way was higher than our peer groups from what we can tell.
It really goes to show the strength of our ROI and TCO for the Federal government market as a whole.
We were also pleased with execution in the U.S.
We did close a number of ELAs in September.
And as we entered September there was a question as to whether or not customers would move forward with some of these but I was really pleased with the execution across the board in the U.S.
and in the Federal business as a whole.
And one other point I think we should mention right? Because some people are thinking about our international business in that it was a slower growth as compared to the U.S.
But you have to go back and look at the tough compare we had last year in Q3.
In Q3 of last year we grew our international business 42% year-over-year versus the U.S.
was up 22%.
So we had a little bit easier compare in the U.S.
as compared to what we saw in the international markets on a year-over-year basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a quick clarification.
You've mentioned a number of the large deals in the past.
I didn't hear that in the prepared remarks.
Were there any large deals over $10 million in the quarter? So I think in Q3 -- or I'm sorry in Q2 in July we mentioned that we had 4 deals greater than $10 million in Q2.
In Q3 we had 2 deals greater than $10 million so it was down sequentially which also reflects the sequential decline in our ELA business.
The next question is from Walter Pritchard Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I guess what we're hearing on the call to some degree is that ELA activity was weak and then it will reaccelerate.
But I guess if I look at the numbers I see that deferred license revenue actually declined more than it does typically.
And if I calculate sort of a license billings number it looks like it was roughly flat year-over-year.
And my understanding is the ELA renewal business usually doesn't bring a lot of license with it.
So I'm wondering it doesn't appear like the ELAs are really the source of the weakness here.
ELAs in total grew faster than the total billing and total revenue.
So I'm just trying to understand on a mix of business perspective if you look at the different components what was the source of weakness here? Yes.
So I think there's a couple things.
If you just look at the headwinds we were facing with the macroeconomic challenges specifically in Europe and in Australia it was a tougher quarter from a bookings perspective.
There is no question about that.
I also think as I said earlier we had a delta year-over-year specifically in selling a new product into the market of approximately 8 weeks.
And we did have a currency headwind that negatively impacted our license bookings by about 200 basis points.
So if you combine all of those together you can start to see some of that challenges as you back into your external bookings number from both license and the total bookings number as a whole.
With that being said if you looked at our sequential Q2 to Q3 drop in ELAs we were down about 5 percentage points against total bookings which was consistent to prior years.
So I don't think it was specific weakness in ELAs or our transactional business I think it was just a tougher climate that we were selling in and against.
And specifically in Europe and Australia we didn't see the growth that we had maybe anticipated but it was offset by strength in the Federal government here in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> And then just so I'm clear on Q4 you're expecting that you would build deferred license revenue during the fourth quarter as you typically do it? Is that the right way to think about it? We do anticipate building deferred license exiting Q4 but not at the same rate we did in 2011.
Next question comes from Rick Sherlund from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First did I miss -- have you disclosed what percentage of your ELA bookings the non-vSphere products represented in the quarter? No.
No.
We haven't nor have we in the past.
We have not broke out right our license bookings by product.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry just maybe not license but the total.
I think it's been running around 20% am I mistaken? What we've said in the past is when you looked at our bookings right management automation as well as our end-user computing solutions it's been approximately 10% of bookings.
This quarter it was slightly greater than 10% each.
Research Division</strong> 10% each? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And going out to next year with more ELAs coming up for renewal and easier comparisons as well one might expect to see some stronger growth.
But I'm curious on the timing of renewals should we expect ELAs to renew on their anniversary date or is it possible that we could see customers maybe motivated to do early renewals? I mean we have a mixture of the timing of how our ELAs renew.
A lot of them -- or I would say the majority of them renew within the quarter they expire.
Some of them actually renew early based on demand or based on build out of private clouds where they may need more management automation solutions.
And some actually renew 1 or 2 quarters later.
So it does vary.
But for the most part our expectation is that our field works hard leading up to the renewal date of the ELA in trying to get them renewed within the given quarter they expire.
Research Division</strong> But there are no inducements for early renewals? Not at this time.
And before we go to the next question.
Just -- I know Carl was clear but management and EUC products were each slightly greater than 10% of license bookings in Q3.
Just in case anybody didn't catch that we know that's a frequent question.
It was each.
Next question comes from Mark Moerdler from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So on maintenance looking at the numbers it's a bit slower than year-over-year growth this quarter versus last year and then a bit slower than the year before that.
Is this just simply the build on the percentage of licenses? Or is this something in terms of the total other tough comp or something else driving that? I think it is a build on licenses.
And the other thing to remember is as I said earlier we had a smaller base of ELAs to renew within the given quarter in Q3.
And when we do renew ELAs it typically has greater than 50% of maintenance associated with the renewal of ELAs.
And if you were at the Financial Analyst Day I think we actually showed for 2011 it was 58%.
So with a lesser number of ELAs to renew within a quarter we did not see the uptick that we traditionally would see in a quarter where we had some strong ELA growth because there wasn't as much maintenance associated with those ELA renewals.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But the ELA -- the maintenances themselves within the ELAs renewed at the roughly the same rate? The -- well they do renew -- they renew at the same rate and we get the new as portion of the ELA renewal we get the old SnS that gets incorporated with the new SnS so it's actually always and typically goes up.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But there's no -- people aren't renewing maintenance at -- in any way shape or form.
It's renewing at the same rough rate? That is accurate.
They're renewing -- when we renew ELAs they renew both the past maintenance and all net new maintenance on the additional products they're purchasing under the ELA.
Next question is from Brian Marshall ISI.
Research Division</strong> I have a big picture question for Pat.
If you think about how companies migrate down this virtualization journey from a dev test to production and admission critical obviously Tier 1 workloads anywhere from 0% to 30% 30% to 50% penetration.
Now we're kind of finally entering in that final push to what I think is 75% with respect to mission-critical Tier 1 workloads.
And can you talk a little bit about your thoughts with respect to how the annual rate of adoption of virtualization will progress in this final sort of phase if you will? Is it going to be faster or slower than in the past and why? Sure.
And we do see this adoption cycle that we're going through with our customers as they move to right a broad acceptance of virtualization in their environment.
And we've described it as they go from dev to test to virtualization to Cloud right? And the next phase this really is associated with a much broader adoption right of -- beyond just vSphere but many more of the components of the Software-Defined Datacenter as we're laying out many more of the management automation tools as well as typically also participating more with public Cloud offerings as well for which we've seen as Carl mentioned very good adoption through our VSPP program.
However inside of that there is this challenge of the mission-critical environments that you point to and that's one where we have seen very good success over the last 2 years of moving SAP Oracle and other mission-critical workloads are now moving to production environments on a virtualized platform.
And when that occurs we have become the mission-critical environment for our customers.
We have become the environment that now it's not just test to dev like a certain Microsoft or Linux workloads but it now has become the standard for our customers.
And to us that is really the area where we're seeing the maximum return the maximum operational benefits and the true transformational operations that Cloud provide.
And we now have a large number of customers there that are seeing that as the next phase of the journey that our customers are on.
Research Division</strong> And you think that the slope of that curve could actually increase going forward? Do you think it would kind of maintain the same range or what's your view there from an industry-wide sort of big picture perspective? Well we definitely see that these are the highest value.
So I think the rate of adoption we haven't seen a fundamental shift in the rate of adoption of virtualization.
But as we're now moving these mission-critical environments to our customers this is the highest value areas and that carries typically the richest opportunities for the rest of the vCloud Suite.
And that's why we're seeing such excitement in the announcements around vCloud Suite and many of the additional components thereof.
Melissa this will be the last question please.
Yes sir.
Last question comes from Jason Maynard Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I appreciate the commentary around the macro challenges but I'm curious to get your take.
Do you think maybe any of this might have something to do with System Center 2012? The combination of the vRAM tax sort of coming to a head here where you start to see a little bit more challenging environment now that Microsoft has a product in the market? So let me get your take just on the competitive positioning and what you actually see with that particular competitor? Yes so let me start there Brian -- I'm sorry Jason and then I'll hand it over to Pat.
So first System Center 2012 and the Windows 8 platform is not even in the market yet so I don't think it had any impact whatsoever on Q3.
Clearly VMware is not immune to the macro headwinds that we're all seeing in the economy.
So I clearly attribute Q3 and our Q4 guidance much more to the challenges we see on a global basis and not seeing any of the concerns in EMEA subsiding like we would all hope.
At the same time we continue to see our customers renew their ELAs.
They continue to leverage our platform to build out private Clouds and federate their workloads in a hybrid Cloud environment to our VSPP partner.
So while Microsoft is coming to market with a new platform I think it should be called out that this is about the third time in the last 7 years that we've seen them come to market with a stance that they now have a good enough product.
And at the meantime VMware has not stood still we've continued to innovate and bring things to market like the vCloud Suite.
Pat maybe you can provide your thoughts.
Yes.
Just at a broader level the Software-Defined Datacenter vision clearly is a far more comprehensive set of technology.
And the first instantiation instance of that is through vCloud Suite we believe fundamentally separates us from many of the competitor alternatives at this point the combination of our private Cloud as well as public Cloud offering announcing true hybrid Cloud operations across those.
We see that the competitive environment yes is one that we always have to be paranoid of.
As my long-term strategic mentor Andy Grove would always say.
But one that we feel like the offerings that we have in place and the vision that we've laid out for our multiyear deliveries into the future clearly separates us from the industry and we expect to see continued long-term success as a result.
Thank you Jason.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
And this does conclude today's conference.
All parties may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is also being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now I'll turn the call over to your host Mr.
Paul Ziots.
Sir we’ll take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.<br><br>Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.<br><br>In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software and acquisition-related items.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.<br><br>Our first quarter 2013 quiet period begins at the close of business On March 14 2013.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2011.<br><br>With that our partners and our customers for their passion engagement and support throughout the year.<br><br>Total revenue for 2012 increased 22% to $4.6 billion with license revenue up 13% to $2.1 billion and non-GAAP operating margins up by 140 basis points.
Unlike most vendors VMware challenges the status quo.
By finding new ways to solve complex IT problems we have helped more than 400 000 customers save billions of dollars dramatically increase the agility of their IT environments and significantly improve business outcomes.<br><br>We see a tremendous market opportunity in 2013 and beyond as we focus on what our customers value most VMware’s role as a pioneer of virtualization technologies that simplify IT infrastructure from the datacenter to the virtual workspace.
In 2013 VMware will execute against three growth priorities in support of our unique role in the industry and the core opportunities we see ahead.
The software-defined datacenter hybrid cloud and end-user computing.<br><br>In the software-defined datacenter we will continue to deliver innovations in networking security storage and management as powerful as those we led and continue to lead in server and desktop virtualization delivered simply through the vCloud Suite.
For hybrid cloud we will enhance our ability to deliver a compelling set of enterprise class cloud services that allow customers to run any application anywhere on and off premise as they choose.
And in end-user computing the Horizon suite will deliver on our vision of a virtual workspace for both existing PC environments and emerging mobile devices in a secure enterprise environment.<br><br>As we enter Q1 we are actively focusing our investments and resource to capitalize on these opportunities.
And by definition there are areas we plan to de-emphasize across the business to do this.
One thing I have learned over the years is the importance of prioritization and execution.
So I have been working with my leadership team to ensure we have the right level of resources in the proper places for 2013 and beyond.
This focus on prioritization includes two-tiered realignment process.<br><br>First a portfolio rationalization in favor of our differentiated strengths and the products our customer base and prospects care about most.
The decision to commit our cloud application platform efforts to the pivotal initiative is an example.
And second a realignment of resources as we scale back in some areas of the business and increase prioritized investments across geographies product groups and operations.
This includes shifting talents in new roles that support our core growth opportunities as well as some targeted headcount reductions.<br><br>Focusing our talents and resources for realignment is a responsible and healthy course of business.
That said these are plans that impact our people and we make them with careful thought and respect.
Jonathan will provide more detail on the realignment process in his section of this call.
To be clear VMware has invested considerably having added over 6 700 people over the last three years to accelerate our growth opportunity.
We will continue to grow invest and hire in 2013 in support of our focused growth priorities.
For example we expect to close fiscal year ’13 with headcount up by approximately 1000 people.<br><br>You will also see us continue M&amp;A activities and strengthen alliances again in support of our focused growth priorities of the software-defined datacenter hybrid cloud and end-user computing.
Looking at 2013 in perspective we are out to make our customers’ environments incrementally better.
We will radically change them by solving the hardest infrastructure problems in elegant simple and powerful ways.
Our aspirational goal is to become the greatest infrastructure software company of this decade $10 billion and beyond by delivering software innovations that bring agility efficiency and choice to our customers while simplifying everything about infrastructure and IT.<br><br>To help give you a deeper understanding of our software innovations and strategies it is my pleasure to invite you to join us for the EMC and VMware strategic forum on March 13th in New York which we will host for analysts and investors.
At this forum my management team and I will discuss our strategies for the Software-Defined Datacenter HyperCloud and end user computing strategies as well as providing more information about the pivotal initiative.
With that I have to say we’ve become more aligned than ever since Pat joined VMware a short five months ago.
Both the CEO and CFO transitions have been seamless and we’re focused motivated and ready to execute in 2013.
I want to start by thanking all of the people at VMware our partners and our customers for contributing to the strong financial results in 2012.<br><br>Our financial performance was driven by our product performance and it was an outstanding year on many fronts including the introduction of new products such as VMware View 5.1 which simplifies the delivery of a desktop with better total cost of ownership and the vCloud Suite which I’ll speak more about in a moment.
Throughout the year we made six acquisitions and welcomed employees from iTHC Cetas Wanova DynamicOps Pattern Insight and Nicira.<br><br>We also continued to expand our international footprint in customer facing activities particularly in key markets such as China Japan Eastern Europe Russia and Latin America.
All of this was accomplished while maintaining our high standards of product and service quality.
In 2013 we will continue to be aggressive with investments in areas supporting our priorities of Software-Defined Datacenter HyperCloud and end user computing.<br><br>In Q4 we benefited from a full quarter of availability of the vCloud Suite our first solution to deliver the Software-Defined Datacenter.
The vCloud Suite integrates VMware’s leading virtualization availability networking security and management portfolio into a single skew and simplifies customers’ adoption of Cloud Air technologies.
We exceeded our bookings planning for vCloud Suite in Q4 and as expected most vCloud Suite bookings were ELAs.
The vCloud Suite comes in three flavors standard advanced and enterprise.
Our enterprise version with a list price of $11 495 per CPU had more bookings in Q4 than either the standard or advanced versions.<br><br>vCloud Enterprise Suite now includes vCloud Automation Center formerly DynamicOps which allows customers to rapidly deploy and provision Cloud services across private and public clouds physical infrastructures Hypervisors and public Cloud providers.
In addition nearly 1 000 existing vSphere Enterprise Plus customers took advantage of our free upgrade offer to vCloud Suite Standard and by doing so acquired additional management and network virtualization capabilities.<br><br>Customers are buying our vCloud Suite for three primary reasons.
The first reason is because customers understand and buy into our vision of the Software-Defined Datacenter and they believe the vCloud Suite is the best way to participate in this vision.
The second reason is that as our customers are deploying more mission critical in tier 1 applications they require higher levels of SLAs.
the vCloud Suite combines better management automation high availability and security functionality meeting these service levels all in a single solution.
And the third reason is because of the significant return on investment and convenience customers enjoy when purchasing Cloud infrastructure and management capabilities in a single SKU with simplified entitlements at favorable prices.<br><br>As expected blended ASPs for vCloud Suite were more than three times the blended ASPs for vSphere in Q4.
We were also pleased that blended vSphere ASPs were higher in Q4 as compared with Q3.
In Q4 our management products and EUC products combined were once again greater than 20% of total license bookings.
This figure does not include management products which are bundled into the vCloud Suite SKUs.
Note that moving forward we expect to sell more and more of our management products as part of the vCloud Suite which will make this figure less relevant.
We had continued success in the quarter with our vCenter Operations Management Suite and vCloud Automation Center which are both sold as part of the vCloud Suite as well as outside the suite.<br><br>The vCenter operations management suite is one of our fastest growing products since vSphere and investments in our channel recruitment enablement and sales incentive during 2012 had been paying off.
Sequential license bookings for vCloud Automation Center grew significantly in Q4 which was the first full quarter since closing our DynamicOps acquisition.
vCloud Automation Center has been gaining traction particularly with our financial services customers and is now a standard component in vCloud suite enterprise which is our high-end suite offering.<br><br>In 2013 we are also making large investments across the board in end-user computing go-to-market activities including increased focus at verticals such as financial services the public sectors and healthcare.
While we were pleased with record U.S.
revenues of $639 million in Q4 at a growth rate of 20% year-over-year our Q4 U.S.
bookings did not come in at the levels we expected for either our ELA or transactional businesses.
Generally speaking we saw weakness across the U.S.
as a whole.
As an example despite our federal business performing better in Q3 than we had expected for the full year 2012 federal bookings were down versus 2011.<br><br>Our international revenues in Q4 also reached a record level of $654 million which is an increase of 24% as compared with the fourth quarter of 2011.
Strong demand in Japan in China once again led our growth in Asia Pacific region and we continue to see increased opportunities for larger deals in these countries and many others.
Weakness in Australia was once again an exception in Asia Pacific due to a struggling economy.<br><br>European bookings were slightly higher than expected in Q4.
As we executed well on selling the vCloud Suite and we witnessed a small budget flush at the end of the year we believe the budget flush occurred because throughout 2012 European companies were protecting their capital budgets and had pent-up technical demand.
Bookings in Germany were strong while Russia bookings were lower than we had expected.
Jonathan will speak to the revenue guidance in a few minutes but from a bookings perspective we expect stronger growth in the second half of 2013 versus the first half of 2013 on year-over-year comparison basis.<br><br>Enterprise license agreements were approximately 33% of total fourth quarter bookings a record high.
Although we did not close any ELAs greater than $10 million as we would normally expect to do in Q4 for the U.S.
This is about nine percentage points above Q3 and slightly higher than 8 points sequential increase from Q3 to Q4 last year.
We had a healthy mix of new ELAs as well as ELA renewals in the quarter and we continue to see a very nice attach rate of non-vSphere solutions to our ELAs.
As I indicated earlier vCloud Suite is mostly sold via ELAs and in fact 75% of vCloud suite bookings in Q4 were associated with ELAs.<br><br>Given the ongoing tough market conditions and increased customer scrutiny around their IT investments our continued strong ELA results reflect the confidence customers show in the VMware platform.
Now turning to our transactional business.
Although we had solid bookings in both unit volume and dollar value in Q4 our transactional business did not grow at nearly the same rate as our ELA business.
Over the next year we are putting in place programs to help drive additional transactions via our channel partners.
We are also working with our channel partners to increase uptake of our adjacent products.<br><br>For the fourth consecutive quarter in 2012 we achieved an all time high in percentage of renewals within the quarter for our support business.
This reflects a vote of confidence from our customers in our products solutions technical support and upcoming product enhancements.
Our VMware service provider program once again tracked well in the quarter as public Cloud providers continue to leverage our Cloud infrastructure program for their service delivery.
We believe this ecosystem of providers is second only to Amazon in public Cloud market share and this program is one of the faster growing parts of our business with bookings growth of over 50% for the full year 2012 as compared to 2011.<br><br>You heard Pat emphasize Hybrid Cloud as one of our priorities for 2013.
With our partners we will be expanding our capabilities aggressively in 2013 building on our private Cloud footprint with an ever richer set of complementary public Cloud service offerings.
This is exactly what our customers tell us they desire a compatible high quality secure and resilient hybrid Cloud platform.<br><br>As Pat mentioned earlier network virtualization is one of the next big steps for our customers on the path to the Software-Defined Datacenter and I’m very pleased with the progress we’ve made expanding our portfolio in this area most recently with the acquisition of Nicira in Q3.
We also took important steps in the fourth quarter to best align our engineering and go to market efforts to take advantage of our early lead in this space.
In addition I’m happy to announce that we expanded our leadership strength with the appointment of Steve Mullaney former CEO of Nicira as Vice President and General Manager of our network and security virtualization group.
And most importantly excited at the benefits we’re delivering to our customers.<br><br>I’d like to share a couple of examples from two leading innovative customers.
eBay a long time VMware customer is leveraging network virtualization to dramatically improve what  they call speed to innovation by delivering self-service on-demand Clouds for their application developers.
Provisioning of the network used to take one week or more and now that time has been reduced to 30 seconds.
This means more productive developers turning out more innovative applications faster for the eBay marketplace.
Network virtualization is transforming eBay’s business.<br><br>Rackspace the second largest public Cloud in the world has been in production with their open-static Cloud running on Nicira since August of last year.
They continue to grow their Cloud every month and this is a real testament to the scale and production quality of open-static and our network virtualization platform.<br><br>Importantly these types of customers will be critical to our efforts to accelerate adoption over the coming years.
I’d like to remind you that though we are early in this market we are excited that the proof of concepts customer interests design wins and momentum is very similar to where we were in the early days of server virtualization.
We’re particularly encouraged by the number of proof of concepts in trials started in Q4 with some of the largest enterprise end service provider customers in the world.
We will continue to provide updates on our progress over the coming quarters.<br><br>Now especially at this point in time with such significant opportunity ahead.
It’s been an incredible first three months and through Pat Carl the management team the Board of Directors and the employees I’ve had the pleasure of interacting with I think firsthand just to have the culture of VMware inspires people and enables great accomplishments.
<br>As Pat and Carl said we completed a strong Q4 in 2012 accomplishing what we said we would do despite a tough economic environment and achieving solid results for license revenue total revenue and non-GAAP operating margin.
We are very proud of these results.<br><br>Total revenues for the fourth quarter were $1.29 billion while total revenues for the full year 2012 were $4.61 billion.
Revenues for both the fourth quarter and the full year increased 22% from a year ago or 23% on a constant currency basis.
In 2012 U.S and international revenues each increased by 22%.
License revenues rose 16% year-over-year in Q$ to $597 million and 13% for the full year to $2.09 billion.
Software maintenance and support revenues increased to 28% in Q4 to $591 million and 31% for the full year to $2.15 billion.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased which demonstrates a strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their Datacenter strategies.<br><br>Professional services revenue were $105 million in Q4 and $365 million for the year up 27% year-over-year and up 28% for the full year.
I will now provide some details on our operating margins.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis and are reconciled to our GAAP results in the press release tables and posted on our investor relations website.<br><br>Our Q4 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was $424 million or 32.8% of revenue as compared to 32.2% in Q3 and 31.9% in Q4 2011.
Year-over-year operating margins benefited 14 basis points from foreign exchange rates.
Our non-GAAP operating margin exceeded our expectation in Q4 due to over achievement on revenue and good ongoing expense controls.
Non-GAAP operating margin was 32.4% for the full year in fiscal 2012.<br><br>We ended the year with approximately 13 800 employees up roughly 2600 employees from the beginning of the year and nearly 500 from the beginning of the quarter.
Our non-GAAP tax rate 18.3% for 2012 and our GAAP tax rate for the year was 16.5%.
We saw a slight uptick  in our Q4 2012 non-GAAP tax rate to 19% as our U.S.
profitability improved slightly.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q4 was up 31% to $0.81 a share on 433 million shares.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for 2012 was also up 31% to $2.85 a share on 434 million shares.<br><br>Now moving on to our balance sheet and cash flow metrics.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short term investments at year-end of $4.63 billion up $236 million quarter-over-quarter.
Our operating cash flows remain strong as well and were $493 million for Q4 and $1.9 billion for 2012.
DSO was 60 days in Q4 compared to 53 days in Q3.
The increase reflected the timing of billings during the quarter and the higher mix of ELAs that Carl mentioned.
These tend to be larger deals completed later in the quarter.<br><br>Our total CapEx spending for 2012 was $234 million.
We continue to work on our Palo Alto and Bangalore campus expansions projects which will continue into 2013.
Free cash flows were $412 million in Q4 and $1.66 billion for 2012 as a whole.
As a reminder last year our cash flow has benefitted from the collection of tax receivables of more than $300 million which covered both the 2010 and 2011 tax years.
We expect to be in a net payment situation going forward.<br><br>During the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares of our stock for a total of $161 million under our share repurchase program at an average price of $87.83 per share.
Over 2012 we repurchased approximately 5.1 million shares for a total cost of $468 million.
Total unearned revenue ended the year of $3.46 billion up 28% from the end of 2011 and an increase of 16% quarter-over-quarter.
Long-term unearned revenue is now approximately $1.26 billion as customers continue to purchase multiple years of maintenance and as more unearned license revenue is recognized overtime.<br><br>Nearly 80% of our unearned revenue is software maintenance and it will be recognized ratably.
Approximately 13% of unearned revenue is software license revenue which is recognized either ratably or upon product delivery.
At the end of Q4 over 50% of the total unearned license revenue balance is to be recognized ratably.
And in addition approximately 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training which is recognized as the serviced delivered.
But considering all these elements approximately 87% of our total deferred revenues are to be recognized ratably.<br><br>Now turning to 2013.
We are going to be making investments in our top priorities across product groups certain geographies and in operations.
We are very focused on the opportunities presented by the Software-Defined Datacenter end user computing and the hybrid Cloud.
We see these as being large important markets for VMware and we are investing for the long term.
At the same time we continued to examine our investment portfolio and plan to reduce our investments in certain non-priority areas.
Over time these actions will allow us to accelerating top and bottom line growth.<br><br>These actions fall into two main categories.
First as part of our pivotal initiative with EMC we expect to commit key existing technology people and programs from both companies focused on Big Data and Cloud application platforms under one organization.
We’ll be providing a more comprehensive update on this at the EMC VMware strategic forum on March 13.
We are not providing any guidance with respect to changes associated with Pivotal prior to that event.<br><br>Our second set of plans involves realizing other investments across the portfolio.
As we invest in our core opportunities we plan to scale back resources in other areas of the business.
This includes shipping talent to new roles that support our core growth opportunities as well as targeted reductions of approximately 900 people.
Some of these will be provisional eliminations associated with streamlining operations and some will result from targeted product actions.
Products we will deemphasize include SlideRocket and other products which are not central to what our customers value the most from VMware.<br><br>We expect to record a charge associated with this action of between $90 million and $110 million with the majority expected to be taken in Q1 2013.
Despite these changes we expect to be up approximately 1 000 heads over the course of 2013 excluding the effect of Pivotal.
Now putting this in perspective VMware has increased its workforce by over 6 700 people over the course of the last three years.
While these choices are often tough we know that this is healthy for our business and an important step as we plan for the long term.<br><br>Now moving to specific guidance for the upcoming year.
As we look at 2013 we see at least four factors impacting our business.
The first is the macroeconomic environment.
As Carl mentioned we experienced general weakness across the U.S in Q4 2012 and our federal government bookings declined for the year overall.
Europe’s roughly stronger performance in Q4 appears to have been the result of some pent up demand preceding customer expectations for a tough 2013.
We remain concerned about the region overall.
In addition foreign exchanges rates are likely to be a revenue headwind at least for the first quarter.<br><br>The second factor impacting our business in early 2013 is a tough compare with large deals.
In Q1 2012 we booked two deals for a total of approximately $40.
Given the current spending environment and looking at our pipeline we do not anticipate closing deals of this size in Q1.<br><br>A third factor is associated with our ELA renewal opportunities.
We expected tailwind opportunity due to ELA renewal opportunities in 2013.
However about two thirds of these opportunities become available in the second half of the year.<br><br>And the fourth factor is related to our decision to reduce investments in certain non-core areas I mentioned earlier.
This realignment of investments is good for our business in the medium and longer term.
However some of these actions will impact revenue in the short term and this is factored into our guidance for 2013.<br><br>In addition while we’re not providing any guidance with respect to the changes associated with Pivotal at this time we did take into account potential impacts on customer engagements during the first half of the year.
With this backdrop we expect stronger growth in the second half of 2013 versus the first half of 2013 on a year-over-year comparison basis.<br><br>For the full year we expect total revenues to be within a range of $5.230 billion to $5.350 billion or a growth of between approximately 14% to 16% over 2012.
Full year license revenues are anticipated to grow between 8% and 11%.
Total revenues for Q1 are expected to range from $1.170 billion to $1.190 billion a growth of approximately 11% to 13%.
We currently anticipate Q1 license revenue to be between $480 million and $490 million.
As Pat said we see a tremendous market opportunity ahead and we will make continued investments throughout the year related to product development in global market expansion.
Consequently and taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Paul disclosed at the start of the call we expect the non-GAAP operating margin for 2013 to range from 31% to 32% and Q1 non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 30%.<br><br>GAAP operating margins for the first quarter are expected to be approximately 20 to 23 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
And for 2013 GAAP operating margins are expected to be approximately 15 to 17 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP operating margins.
For 2013 we expect the CapEx to be between $340 million and $380 million as we continue to build our Palo Alto and Bangalore campuses.
We estimate our non-GAAP tax rate will be 18.5% for the full year and the GAAP tax rate to be approximately 5 to 7 percentage points lower than the non-GAAP rate.<br><br>For Q1 we estimate our non-GAAP tax rate will also be 18.5% but because of the reenactment of the R&amp;D credit for 2012 the GAAP tax rate will actually be a benefit of approximately 17%.
And finally Jonathan.
Operator we're going to begin the Q&amp;A process.
Let's begin.
one so you are excluding any lost revenue from pivotal even though you are not quantifying it.
And two as you look at the puts and takes and some of the other drivers for the conservatism Adam this is Jonathan.
Thanks for the question.
Just taking them in two pieces.
So just to be clear we have not included any specific guidance with respect to pivotal so we will be updating you as Pat said at VMware EMC analyst day on March 13.
So you should see them sort of business as normal if you like for pivotal.
That’s important to understand.
The second thing is yes I mean as I have looked at the overall plan working with Pat and with Carl and the rest of the management team you know the guidance takes into account the macroeconomic situation that we described and we have experienced.
It also clearly takes into account the Q3 Q4 bookings performance.
Obviously bookings is a leading indicator of how revenue tracks.<br><br>We also see in Q1 in particular some tougher compares.
As I mentioned we saw particularly strong performance in a couple of ELAs in Q1 ’12 totaling around $40 million which right now were not forecasting that sort of level of individual deal when we look at Q1.
So I had figured or looked at those various things we have certainly looked it in the context of first half second half as well.
And hopefully you saw this but we do anticipate an accelerating growth pattern over the quarter of the year but the first half does take into account those various factors.<br><br>And then finally you know I think there is going to be some distraction as we work through the pivotal activities as we finalize that structure and as we also work through some of these realignment activities as we set ourselves up well for not just the tail end of 2013 but also the longer term opportunity.
So I guess if I would net all that out it reflects my approach I’ll take that one as well.
The first thing to bear in mind is we are going to be investing over the course of the year and you correctly picked up we’re investing a net about 1 000 heads even taking into account this action we talked about today.
However we’ll also added 2 600 people over the course of 2012.
So we got the full impact of that investment that we’ve made already going into 2013.
Of course a little bit of pressure on operating margin especially in the first half.
We also anticipate to run to the full OpEx benefit of all of the headcount actions and the realignment activities probably until the second half as some of the realignment activities while planned won’t be completed in the first half.
Most will but we expect some of that to continue especially as we think about geographical activity over the course of the year.
So just to quickly touch on the maintenance in services component there.
So just following onto Adam’s question.
If you’re looking for a high teens sequential decline on the license fees what if a puts and takes on the services line in times of maintenance and just the pro services piece there? And then just more on a high level for the full year just given license guidance maybe I’ll start and I can let Pat or Carl add color.
This is Jonathan again.
Again when we think about the year overall I just want to make sure we’ve all heard this.
I think the first half will be more challenging but we do see activity towards the second half driving towards a stronger performance overall.
You certainly heard the guidance with respect to license and remember the S&amp;S or the Service and Support growth in revenues clearly reflect bookings that we took over the course of the latter part of 2012 as well.
So we would anticipate again the second half to be stronger as we think about the overall profile of the quarter.
License and overall bookings growth for Q1 does certainly reflect some of those year-over-year compares that I mentioned earlier on Sonya.
Carl I talked about in my prepared remarks the success we had around the vCloud Suite in Q4 which was our first full quarter of having that in the market and as I indicated it was ahead of our booking expectations that we had internally which shows that demand and the customer’s confidence in VMware to deliver the Software-Defined Datacenter.
The other metric I would look at is the attach rate of the Suite to enterprise license agreements and we continue to see a high attach rate to the ELAs with the Suite itself.
And then the third metric if you were to grow 10% if you’re going to be down sequentially more it looks like the growth in second half is looking like 19% 20% roughly in license growth rate.
So can you walk me through if that assumption is broadly speaking correct when you talk about your second half acceleration? And what exactly are the dislocations we are working through in in Q1 and Q2 timeframe that shifts that growth rate to second half first of all when we have developed the plan for the total year in the first half second half the first thing we obviously had to look at is how did bookings perform over the course of Q3 Q4 in particular when we think about license.
The macroeconomic environment the fact that the federal bookings performance overall for the entire year in FY '12 was basically down the nature of strength in the European segment in particular in Q4 felt somewhat temporary in the second more of a one-off budget flush for us.
And then as we start to think about the second so that gives some challenge to the first half.
The second half I think reflects what we consider to be the opportunity around things like the ELA tailwind as we've I think well understood given the fact that 2010 did see a heavy or a significant level of ELAs.
Two-thirds of that opportunities we've analyzed it further becomes available in the second half.<br><br>So that combined with what we are forecasting today to be an improved macroeconomic environment gives us cause for optimism as we approach the second half.
I think you are being a little bit aggressive on the overall or you are over interpreting on the license acceleration on a year-over-year basis.
You look at the second half.
Again we guided as I described to earlier on to 8% to 11% for the total year certainly starting off Q1 a little bit softer than that.
And then the other thing I would just say as we continue to work through some of these realignments and the pivotal activity we think that's going to reflect some clarity more towards the second half as well.
So there is three or four factors there Kash and then a quick follow up for Jonathan if I might.
Pat headcount reductions are typically dramatic measures for a company.
But by the end of the year it's associated with getting the right people aligned with the priority areas that we have described.
As we began the pivotal initiative we clearly see that there is a set of things that we have underway that aren't clearly aligned with those priorities.
So we're getting people aligned with those priorities.
Clearly having added as we said on the call 6 700 people over the last three years we're refining where those headcounts are located vis-à-vis those key priority areas.
So it is a great opportunity right for us to get the entire company aligned with the great growth opportunities that we see in these areas SDDC hybrid cloud EUC for Jonathan or maybe Carl the ELA renewals that you did close this quarter thanks John.
This is Carl I will take that question.
Yes we did not see any change to our ELA renewal rates in Q4.
As I indicated in my remarks we had 33% of our total bookings come through ELAs and that included the renewals in the quarter.
And of those renewals that we did have just to be clear was it – let's say – I'm just going to throw out a number 120% is what you usually see.
Was it a 120% this quarter? Was it a 125% John I think in the past in the Analysts Day I articulated that it was greater than 100% and it was again greater than 100%.
We don't give details of the exact percentage.
But as I said earlier can you discuss a little bit how the opportunity differs on the next 25% to 30% of the market? You alluded a little bit to a richer upsell opportunity for some of these customers there is a range of estimates 50% 60% virtualized and workload stay.
So our expectation is we can continue to drive that number and we do see that we can take it to 90% plus.
So even in core virtualization we believe we’re far from done.
We do also see that this provides – I think of it as a springboard for these additional areas of the Software-Defined Data Center.
We’re clearly in the good numbers that we saw the management Suite this quarter where we really can grow these adjacencies based on the success of the core virtualization opportunity.
And we see that being the case for management network security storage and availability.
So overall we do see that opportunity to expand from that strong footprint.
So Carl as customers look to virtualize their next set of applications those applications are typically mission-critical and tier one applications which do require a much higher level of service and that is what customers can get through the vCloud Suite.
So in a lot of our ELAs and the renewals of ELAs in Q4 customers were buying the Suite.
In fact as I articulated we saw more of the high-end Suite than anything else just on the bookings for U.S can you just drill on a little bit further? You mentioned starting was weak for the most of the year we had a very solid financial services business and in Q4 we did indeed see it come down on a year-over-year basis.<br><br>And then the last thing I'd say is we have made significant changes in our U.S.
go-to-market coverage model.
The segments our customers in a different way gives us a better coverage and alignment to our customers based on their size.
This was a transformation that took place in 2012 and we expect the full impact of these changes do ramp throughout 2013 and with this change in execution and coverage model but then obviously the base of ELA is falling in the first half here.
I wonder if you could just comment on the transactional position you saw in Q4 in terms of just your price and I guess as well as competition? And as you would look into the first half here thanks.
So I talked about the transactional business probably for the first time in quite some time on our call here because we did see some softness in the transactional business and we think that had more to do with the macro than anything else.
And the reason I say that is because the transactional business is primarily driven by our channel so it's an indirect model for us.
And when you see slowness in the transactional business it typically calls out something going on more in the macro than from an execution or a coverage model perspective.<br><br>With that as a backdrop going forward we are putting in place a number of programs with our partners to help drive the transactional business in a new direction.
This will include changes in how we price our products the promotions we give to our channel and I think certainly most importantly based on the success we've seen around the vCloud Suite in the Enterprise segment we will be doing some creative packaging with our core vSphere product as well as other management solutions to drive a better attach rate just on the competitive side I'm wondering or maybe Carl could you just talk about what you are seeing out at Microsoft.
I know they are giving some qualitative metrics around their virtualization business here I'll take this and then if Pat has any color he can chime in.
So first of all I would say for Microsoft as you all know this is probably the third time in the last seven or eight years we've now heard that Microsoft has a good enough hypervisor solution for the enterprise.
If you look at VMware and our focus it's really on driving an automated datacenter through our software defined datacenter solution.
At this time we have not seen any impact from Microsoft in the launch of their new product either in our ELA business or if you will in our transactional business which was evident by us being able to get a 3x higher ASP from the vCloud Suite.
And if you just look at the standalone vSphere business on a sequential basis quarter-over-quarter our ASPs actually went up from Q3-to-Q3.
And you would have thought that if we were seeing any significant impact from our competition that would not have occurred.<br><br>So we're pleased with our ability to focus on bringing value to our customers where we're really focused on driving a different level of virtualization outside of just compute here we really deal with our highest level customer relationships.
We don't see Microsoft as a competitor.
Right.
The conversations that we have are transformative architectural just a question on cash flow you gave us we don't guide on cash flow as you know.
So what I would share is our trailing 12-month cash flows generally should be in line with our profitability growth.
But as you know we have taken into account timing of orders and cash collections and one time impacts.
Clearly in the first half the cost of the realignment and re-bouncing actions is going to have an impact.
We certainly want to treat any impact to the employees with the utmost respect and we want to make sure we're also dealing with M&amp;A in an appropriate fashion.
So that's going to have an impact on cash flows in particular in the first half.
We haven't given much guidance beyond that specifically.
I do think it's an important metric for the company both free cash flows and operating cash flows overall we're seeing that the space for desktop virtualization is actually a very right one as customers now have proven the technology in certain narrow segments and is now expanding to be a very broad category for them to deploy a much more efficient model for desktop and for a variety of reasons.
And now it is a very cost effective storage costs by maturity of the management tools etcetera right.
And also I'd emphasize that for us this space is one where it's about the entire end-user experience including our soon to be announced Mobile Horizon Suite which extends our value proposition from the PC through the entire set of end-user compute devices as well.
So we see this as a launching point for a broader strategy for VMware into the future.
So Carl Pat.
So it's clear that as we look at the market there is a transformation taking place in end-user computing and we believe 2013 this will become more evident as a cost of that solution and platform in the datacenter continues to come down especially around storage and networking as Pat indicated.
As a company Emily.
Before we conclude the call Paul.
As we close with a few final points.
First on behalf of the entire VMware leadership team thank you all for being with us.
I'm sure you get a real sense today that we're taking decisive action to focus our innovation and business operations around key high growth opportunities that VMware is uniquely positioned to lead across the IT sector.
Our strategies are laser focused on what our customers and prospects value most from VMware.
Helping them simplify the virtualization and cloud journey through our Software-Defined Datacenter strategy.
Enabling enterprise hybrid cloud environments that provide flexibility and choice and helping to empower their people with a virtual workspace that service today's multi-device realities.
We are very excited and I personally am very excited about our future.
Again we look forward to sharing our vision strategy Welcome and thank you for standing by.
At this time all participant lines are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections to this please disconnect at this time.
And now I would like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Paul Ziots.
Sir you may begin.
Welcome to VMware’s first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today’s call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware’s performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software acquisition-related items and realignment costs.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on the Investor Relations page of our website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our second quarter 2013 quiet period begins at the close of business on June 14 2013.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2011.
With that let me hand it over to Pat.
Thanks Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Q1 was a solid start to the year despite a mixed economic environment.
I am very pleased with my team’s performance this quarter particularly in light of recent results from many of our industry peers.
Total revenues for Q1 increased 13% for $1.19 billion with a non-GAAP operating margin of 32.5%.
Looking ahead we see tremendous opportunity based on our unique role in the industry.
VMware’s vision is to empower people and organizations by radically simplifying IT through virtualization software.
Our customers are looking to us to help them solve some of the toughest challenges in IT and simple and elegant ways thereby delivering new levels of efficiency control and agility.
To do this we will continue to introduce new innovations and offerings that will empower IT as a broker of services that’s why the speed of business and competitive advantage.
This vision is based on a laser focus on what VMware does best and our ability to enter 2013 execution ready looks full strategic alignment across the leadership team.
Our realignment actions are ahead of schedule and nearly complete and we’re proud of the VMware team for navigating these changes so well.
We have focused the entire company around our innovation priorities without skipping a beat on business results throughout the realignment.
This includes the successful integration of our cloud application platform assets into the new pivotal organization under Paul Martiz’s leadership.
We’re excited to engage with Pivotal as a strategic partner and investor and congratulate the new team as they hit the ground running.
Based on this operational momentum execution in Q1 and our view on the macro-economic conditions for the year we believe we’re on track to achieve the full year FY ’13 guidance provided at our strategic forum for investors on March ’13.
Jonathan will detail these areas and (inaudible) FY ’13 expectations again during his section of the call.
VMware strategy is firmly in place with our three growth priorities software defined data center hybrid cloud and end user computing serving as the core missions that will drive our execution for 2013 and beyond.
We’re on a multi-year journey as we guide our customer’s technology and business transformation.
We believe this IT transformation presents VMware with a $50 billion total addressable market opportunity by 2016.
With this core strategy and market opportunity in mind I would like to double click briefly on our momentum our perspective on the industry and the increasing role we play with in the IT sector.
First we’re pleased with our continued progress with the software defined data center opportunity we continue to deliver innovations and networking securities storage and management as powerful as those that we lead and continue to lead as server virtualization comprehensively deliver through the vCloud suite.
Extending our network footprint we recently outlined our intentions to merge the VMware vCloud networking and security product line with the Nicira network virtualization platform into the single product family based on a common technology foundation to be named VMware NSX.
We’re also set to further deliver against the software defined data center architecture in the second half of the year with broader software defined storage solutions for stand-alone products and within the vCloud suite.
Our unique ability to radically simplifying our customer’s day to day operations through the software defined data center is enabled by closely weaving management and automation innovation as part of the vCloud suite.
We’re happy with our progress with these solutions including early customer response to our recently announced vSphere operations management solution.
And while the large majority of customers prefer an integrated cloud offering from VMware some consider assembling a cloud solution using multiple technologies to help them manage an automate those complexity we engage across the rich eco-system of vendors and open source solutions.
We see OpenStack emerging as a framework for assembling a cloud infrastructure and intend to enable our best of breed networking compute storage and management technologies to be integrated into OpenStack and other environments thereby extending the addressable market opportunity for VMware while providing additional choice for our customers.
For example last week we announced these for your support as a virtualization platform to the latest OpenStack release.
Further expanding on the software-defined datacenter opportunity and on VMware is it built to offer customer’s choice we have seen significant interest for both customers and partners in response to our intention to extend this architectural approach into a hybrid cloud service offer.
This new offering will extend the value of VMware from the inside out leveraging a common management orchestration networking and security model into the public cloud without requiring changes to existing applications.
As we outlined at the strategic forum we expect to launch VMware vCloud Hybrid Service mid-year and intend to make it available through our existing service provider channel systems integrator and outsourcing partner ecosystem to accelerate customer’s journey to the cloud.
We have created the new hybrid cloud services business unit and recently welcomed cloud services veteran Bill Fathers as Senior Vice President and General Manager.
And finally we are aggressively moving forward with our end user computing business a natural extension of the core principles of virtualization to create a truly virtual workspace for seamless connection across any device any workload and any cloud.
The VMware Horizon 3 is a comprehensive platform for workforce mobility using virtualization to transform silos of data applications and desktops and to centralize the IT services.
As a result IT can easily provision manage and deliver applications to end users on the devices of their choice.
Over 500 000 customers won their business on our infrastructure supported by one of the richest ecosystems on the planet and over 36 million virtual machines supporting both foundational and mission-critical apps won on VMware’s platform.
This puts VMware and our customers in an enviable leadership position as the industry moves from the client server era to the mobile cloud era.
VMware is the virtualization software infrastructure company and the only company capable of providing an end-to-end infrastructure solution designed to bridge our customers legacy client server apps and desktops to the next-gen apps for the mobile cloud world.
We continue to execute against our strategy and our position in the market is clear as we embark on this multi-year journey with our customers.
We don’t take this position for granted.
And again I would like to thank our customers partners and our people for their passion and engagement as we lead into our aspirational goal of becoming the greatest infrastructure software company of this decade.
With that I’ll turn it over to Carl.
Thanks Pat.
I would also like to congratulate employees and partners for achieving Q1 performance in conjunction with simultaneous execution of both the pivotal transition and our broader realignment efforts.
As indicated in our last earnings call I have never seen VMware more focused.
Our three growth priorities the software-defined datacenter hybrid cloud and end-user computing have alignment across all functions in the company as well as our partner community.
We continue to build our industry thought leadership which is evident by the industry support of the software-defined datacenter launched at VMworld last August.
Operationally we are consistently meeting our short-term goals as we build a deeper foundation for VMware’s future.
We continue to bring world-class software engineers executives and broad-based talent into VMware while simultaneously building an environment for our employees that foster both personal and professional growth from training and development programs to our focus on giving back to the communities we serve.
We view these investments as a fundamental win-win for VMware our employees and our customers.
And we will continue to build these programs in support of our aspirational goal to add just reference to become the greatest infrastructure software company of this decade.
As per the results this quarter we are pleased with our performance in Q1 and delighted with the team’s execution particularly in light of new expectations for the U.S.
and Europe along with uncertainty in the U.S.
federal government standing due to the sequestration.
Results were in-line with our expectations in all three regions.
The Americas EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
This performance was a result of solid execution across the entire company our customer operations teams around the world did an outstanding job closing ELAs and what is typically a seasonally tough quarter for technology companies.
Q1 was a second full quarter of availability for the vCloud suite.
We exceeded our internal bookings plan in Q1 and as expected approximately 75% of vCloud’s suite bookings were part of enterprise license agreements.
Customers are excited about the tremendous efficiency benefits they are realizing from the suite for example Symantec Corporation uses vCloud suite and has been able to reduce the time it takes to create environments from 20 to 30 hours down to just 10 to 15 minutes.
Symantec has now deployed over 145 000 virtual machines leveraging the vCloud suite.
Enterprise license agreements were approximately 29% of total first quarter bookings this is up from approximately 22% last Q1 and demonstrates customers commitments to investing in VMware’s expanded solution offerings.
We were able to accelerate and close two ELAs greater than $10 million in the quarter had a healthy mix of new ELAs as well as ELA renewals and continue to see a nice tax rate of non-vSphere solutions to our ELAs.
As we expected blended ASPs for vCloud’s suite were more than three times of blended ASP for vSphere in Q1 which is a strong indication of the incremental value VMware brings to customers with one integrated suite comprised of vSphere management and automation and network and security functionalities.
We’re very pleased with renewal rates within the quarter as we achieved an all-time high in percentage of renewals with any Q1 and the second highest in quarter renewal rate of all-time.
This reflects a vote of confidence from our customers and our products and solutions technical support and upcoming product enhancements.
The momentum in continued strength of renewals across our ELA and renewals businesses reinforces VMware store as a long term strategic partner to our customers.
Transactional bookings were up modestly year-over-year despite the effect of softening X86 server shipments on our OEM business.
We are pleased by initial customer reaction to the recent launch of vSphere operations management and vSphere data protection at our partner exchange event in February where we hosted more than 4100 registered attendees from partners around the world.
We continue to put in place programs to help drive additional transactions via our channel partners and also continue to work with the channel partners to increase uptake of adjacent products.
Q1 was a strong quarter for our management and automation product lineup.
Standalone management and automation license bookings were up double digits year-over-year.
This does not take into account management and automation functionality sold within the vCloud suite.
It is important to note that vCloud suite and vSphere operations management or vSom become an increasingly large portion of our total license bookings stand-alone management and automation bookings must be viewed in conjunction with vCloud suite and vSom in order to understand our expanding footprint in this product area.
vCenter operations management suite continues to be one of VMware’s fastest growing products since vSphere and our investments in channel recruitment enablement and sales incentive had been paying off.
vCloud automation center has been gaining traction particularly well with our financial services customers.
vCenter operations management suite and vCloud automation center work in both vSphere and non-vSphere environments.
Our end-user computing license bookings were up in the mid-teens year-over-year.
We continue to make investments across the board in end-user computing go-to-market activities including increased focus on verticals such as financial services the public sector and healthcare.
In Q1 we launched an integrated VMware Horizon Suite the industry’s most comprehensive platform for workforce mobility.
We are pleased with the initial response to the suite as both existing and new customers look to leverage Horizon functionality to serve their end-user needs.
As Pat mentioned earlier network virtualization is one of the next big steps for our customers on the pack to the software-defined datacenter.
We expect to launch NSX in the second half of 2013 and it will represent the full potential of network virtualization working across VMware and non-VMware hypervisors and cloud management systems as well as underlying networking hardware.
By virtualizing the network VMware NSX will allow customers to accelerate application deployment lower both capital and operational cost and transform network operations in a non-disruptive manner.
We are aggressively aligning all assets in go-to-market efforts to take advantage of the strong demand for a significantly better approach to networking enabled by virtualization.
And I am very pleased with the reaction from customers who are on the leading edge of adopting this next wave of virtualization technology in addition to existing companies such as Rackspace and eBay Intel NaviSite a Time Warner company and Colt a major European service provider or a few of the companies currently deploying are actively exploring proof-of-concepts with VMware’s network virtualization technology.
As I said on previous earnings calls we are in the early days of this market but I am increasingly bullish on the opportunity to monetize our lead in virtualization of the network.
And we will continue to provide updates on how this market is evolving over the coming quarters.
Our VMware Service Provider Program once again tracked well in the quarter as public cloud providers continue to leverage our cloud infrastructure program for their service delivery.
As we have stated previously we believe this ecosystem of providers is second only to Amazon in public cloud market share and this program is one of the fastest growing parts of our business with bookings growth over 100% for Q1 2013 versus Q1 2012.
In addition as we laid out at our recent strategic forum event in March our customers want to leverage cloud and cloud services for both existing applications as well as next generation applications and they want to do it in a way that’s consistent in how they manage operate and deliver IT services today from their existing datacenter.
Our partner community has also been telling us that as they talk to VMware’s customers there is a big desire of VMware public cloud offering that is in synchronization with what they are running in their datacenter today.
Because we already had been successful in the private cloud we want to extend upon that success and move to a hybrid cloud offering where we see a massive market opportunity in satisfying customer demand.
We plan to launch VMware vCloud Hybrid Services on May 21 and look forward to providing more detail about these services at that time.
In summary our Q1 operational momentum and results put VMware in a solid position to achieve our business technology and financial goals for 2013.
Our large and solid base gives us an exciting opportunity to demonstrate our commitment to helping customers transform the way they deliver IT services through innovation and world-class support.
We are pleased that our customers are expressing excitement about our product deliverables later this year.
These new products include the next generation of vSphere vCloud Operations Suite Horizon Suite as well as VMware NSX for network personalization vSOM for storage virtualization and vCloud Hybrid Services all of which are in customers’ hands with beta versions.
Our operational momentum is strong and our leadership team is focused.
We’re energized for a strong for a strong 2013 for our customers and partners our employees and our investors.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thanks Carl.
As Pat and Carl said we accomplished what we said we would do in Q1 despite a mixed economic environment and achieved solid results for license revenue total revenue and non-GAAP operating margin.
Total revenues for the first quarter were $1.19 billion up 13% from a year ago on both the U.S.
dollar and constant currency basis.
U.S.
revenues increased by 17% and international revenues increased by 9% year-over-year.
License revenues rose in Q1 to $488 million near the high end of our guidance range.
Software maintenance and support revenues increased 23% to $605 million year-over-year.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased which demonstrates a strong commitment to VMware’s core element of their data center strategies.
Professional services revenues were $98 million in Q1 up 21% year-over-year as customers increasingly leveraged our professional services expertise for architecture leadership when embarking upon cloud implementations.
We’re also pleased with the progress we’re making in product areas beyond stand-alone vSphere.
In Q1 end-user computing license bookings were once again greater than 10% of total license bookings when combining EUC license bookings and additional license bookings outside stand-alone vSphere such as management and automation and vCloud suite greater than 30% of total license bookings in Q1 came from products outside our stand-alone vSphere offerings.
I will now provide some details in our operating margins unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis and our reconciled with our GAAP results in the press release tables and posting on investor relations website.
Our Q1 operating profit measured on a non-GAAP basis was $388 million or 32.5% of revenue as compared with 32.8% in Q4 and 32.6% in Q1 2012.
Our non-GAAP operating margin exceeds our expectation in Q1 due to slightly higher than anticipated revenue and good ongoing expense controls.
We ended the quarter with approximately 13 000 employees down roughly 800 from the beginning of the quarter.
This reflects the net impact of our realignment actions initiated in Q1.
Our non-GAAP tax rate was 18.5% for Q1.
On a GAAP basis we had an income tax benefit of $9 million reflecting the retroactive reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit in Q1.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q1 was up 11% year-over-year to $0.74 a share on 433 million shares.
Now moving on to our balance sheet and cash flow metrics our balance sheet remained strong with cash and short investments at quarter end of $4.94 billion up $306 million quarter-over-quarter.
Our operating cash flows remain strong as well and with $676 million up 17% year-over-year.
DSO was 57 days in Q1 compared to 60 days in Q4; the improvement reflected record collections from our seasonally strong Q4 plus strong cash collections performance in the quarter.
The quality of our receivables portfolio remains high.
Our total cash spending on CapEx for Q1 was $78 million as previously noted we’re continuing to build out of our Palo Alto campus which will continue through 213.
Free cash flows were $599 million in Q1 up 10% year-over-year.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares of our stock for a total $182 million under our share repurchase program at an average price of $77.5 per share.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $3.49 billion up 24% from Q1 2012 and an increase of 1% quarter-over-quarter.
Long term unearned revenue is now $1.3 billion as customers continue to purchase multiple years of maintenance and as more unearned license revenue is recognized over time.
80% of our unearned revenue is software maintenance and will be recognized ratably.
13% of unearned revenue is software license revenue which is recognized either ratably or upon product delivery.
At the end of Q1 over 50% of the total unearned license revenue balance is to be recognized ratably.
And in addition 7% of unearned revenue is the result of prepaid professional services including training which is recognized as the services are delivered.
Considering all of these elements 88% of our total deferred revenues are to be recognized ratably.
Now I would like to make a few comments about the calculated bookings figures which many of you routinely calculate by adding our quarterly revenue to the sequential change in unearned revenue each quarter.
Typically these calculated bookings and associated growth rates have been a reasonable proxy for our actual bookings and actual bookings growth rates over time.
In Q1 however these calculated growth rates were significantly lower than our actual growth rates.
This is due to a number of factors which include the removal of unearned revenue associated with the VMware Protect business we exited as part of our realignment activities as well as the timing of OEM bookings.
Given these various items we want to make clear that our actual license bookings of Q1 grew at a rate of greater than 10% and that our actual total bookings also grew at a rate of greater than 10% in Q1.
Now turning to a couple of operational updates at this time our headcount realignment activities are ahead of schedule and nearly completes.
Additionally we expect any remaining product divestitures to conclude over the next few months.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their focus and dedication in accomplishing the fastest and most effective realignment project I have ever seen.
Regarding pivotal consistent with what I have communicated previously the transaction became effective on April 1 which is the beginning of our fiscal second quarter.
This means you will still see pivotal assets and employees included in our Q1 financial statements.
Approximately 500 employees are transferring from VMware to pivotal in Q2.
As I mentioned on March 13 in our strategic forum substantially all revenues and cost associated with our contribution to pivotal will be eliminated from VMware’s P&amp;L statements from Q2 onwards.
Furthermore you will see the effect of approximately $70 million in unearned revenue transferred from VMware to pivotal in our Q2 balance sheet.
Approximately $32 million of this unearned revenue is unearned license revenue.
Now moving to guidance as we noted 90 days ago when we first provided our 2013 outlook we see an uncertain economic outlook for the upcoming year.
Since the time of that call a number of our peers have made similar observations.
We remain cautious in the short-term and our 2013 revenue guidance remains in the range of $5.120 billion to $5.240 billion or an increase of 11% to 14%.
This revenue guidance takes into account the removal of pivotal revenue from Q2 onwards.
As a reminder on an apples-to-apples basis our total revenue growth for 2013 would be between 14% and 16% when taking into account the removal of pivotal from both 2012 and 2013.
In addition our original guidance for 2013 included approximately $110 million of pivotal related revenues associated with Q2 through Q4 2013.
On March ‘13 we removed this $110 million from our 2013 guidance.
We noticed that many of you have not fully removed this $110 million from your models and do suggest you consider doing so at this time.
Switching to license revenue our growth expectation for the full year remains within the range of approximately 6% to 9%.
As I mentioned on March 13 this takes into account the removal of pivotal revenues from Q2 through Q4 of 2013 but of course includes pivotal revenues for the entirety of 2012.
On an apples-to-apples basis our license revenue growth for 2013 would be between 8% and 11% when taking into account the removal of pivotal from both 2012 and 2013.
Regarding operating margins as you now know we experienced stronger non-GAAP operating margin results in Q1 that anticipated.
Taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating income that Paul discussed at the start of the call and the pivotal related assets which moved from VMware to Pivotal on April the 1st we now expect non-GAAP operating margins to be in the range of 33% to 34% for the full year which is up an additional 50 basis points in the range we provided on March 13.
GAAP operating margins for 2013 are expected to be approximately 12 to 15 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
We expect head count at the end of 2013 to be up by approximately 500 people from the start of the year.
This takes into account approximately 500 people that we transferred to pivotal in Q2 as well as the impact of our realignment activities.
At this time we continue to project that our non-GAAP tax rate will be 18.5% for the year.
We anticipate that our 2013 fully diluted weighted average share count to be between 431 million to 435 million shares and expect capital expenditures on a cash basis to range between $330 million and $370 million.
Total revenues for Q2 are expected to range from $1.210 billion to $1.240 million or a growth of between approximately 8% to 10%.
We currently anticipate Q2 license revenue to be between 515 million and 535 million.
On apples to apples basis our total revenue growth for Q2 would be between 11% and 14% after taking into account the removal of pivotal from both 2012 and 2013.
Please note that deferred revenue will be reduced by approximately $100 million in Q2 approximately $70 million is attributable to the pivotal transaction but balance of approximately $30 million takes into account anticipated remaining divestitures of businesses under our realignment plan.
As Pat said we see a tremendous market opportunity ahead and we will make continued investments throughout the year related to product development and global market expansion.
Consequently in taking into account our adjustments to GAAP operating GAAP we will discuss at the start of the call.
We expect that non-GAAP operating margin for Q2 to range from 32.5% to 33.5%.
GAAP operating margins for the second quarter are expected to be approximately 12 to 15 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
For Q2 we estimate our non-GAAP tax rate to be 18.5% and finally we anticipate our second quarter 2013 fully diluted weighted average share count to be between 431 million to 435 million shares.
And with that I will turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Operator we’re going to begin the Q&amp;A process.
let’s begin.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question will come from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
I was curious on your guidance for the rest of the year.
Obviously it plays a very significant reacceleration to the business in the second half of the year can you speak to the different factors that give you confidence in the second half pick-up in the business and also if you could catch up on OpenStack there is a lot of flood in the marketplace regarding OpenStack and a complete removal of the virtualization and the management layer with an OpenSource product.
You seem to indicate that there is more of an interfacing strategy with a framework not exactly a product if you can just clarify on that these two items that will be great.
Thank you very much.
Before I let Jonathan pick up on the reacceleration and I will take the OpenStack if you want to make few general comments as we start the Q&amp;A first I’m just very pleased with our team performance in Q1 results were in-lined with expectations across all of our regions indicating very balanced performance.
Our product machine is performing very well.
We started the year on very solid footing maintained our guidance for the year.
Right this is a very solid way to begin to 2013 and I am very proud of our year for doing that.
Jonathan maybe you want to take on the question of the acceleration in second half.
Sure.
Hi Kash.
So second half growth I mean the drivers really have not changed from what we shared in just 90 days ago.
As we talked back then we continued to make investments in both our product portfolio and also in our go-to-market activities in particular emerging markets but also in our end-user computing dedicated sales teams.
We do as many of you also track we do see an ELA tailwind opportunity in the second half of 2013.
Frankly we are also looking for a little bit of a modest uptick with respect to the economy and in particular we are looking forward to the federal third quarter helping the second half.
And then finally I mean not least of which we have had a solid start to the fiscal year.
So we believe our solid bookings performance in Q1 gives us a nice foundation on which to build the full year.
Thanks.
And Pat you are going to talk about OpenStack?  Yeah very specifically.
First with respect to the overall OpenStack environment for large majority of our customers simply wants an integrated solution and for that the VMware stack overall remains the choice of the vast majority of our customers.
However what we do see is the emerging framework of OpenStack for customers to assemble their own cloud infrastructure e.g.
for those who want to build their own.
And our intention is to enable our best of breed to sell our best of breed networking compute storage and management technologies into that open framework into that OpenStack environment.
We see this is expanding the addressable market for VMware and further providing additional choice the key value of VMware to our customers.
As an example of that last week Kash we announced the vSphere support as part of the latest release of OpenStack with the release.
And within that specifically there is no compute virtualization called for an OpenStack that’s left as an open choice.
And now we are delivering vSphere as a preferred solution inside of that OpenStack environment.
And this presents additional monetization opportunities for our paid for compute networking storage management software technologies into that OpenStack environment.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please.
Our next question will come from John DiFucci of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
My question is international revenues only grew 9% year-over-year which implies that international license probably declined.
Is this really just macro issues or is there something else happening in the international markets? And if it is macro what gives you the confidence and I guess this is some follow-up to Kash’s question.
What gives you that confidence to maintain your annual guidance especially if some of that is partially due to pick up in emerging markets as Jonathon just said?  Jonathan maybe you want to begin with this one.
But I would also emphasize as we said.
We saw very balanced performance our bookings performance and growth across the world was very balanced.
So many of those economic factors we were able to muscle through and see very good performance across all of our GEOs.
So Jonathan a bit more color on international?  Sure Carl but let me dive in as well at the end.
So John just to reiterate and restate the numbers so for Q1 revenues we saw the U.S.
up 17% year-over-year and international was up 9% year-over-year.
The international revenues do reflect something of a mixed bag as you think about at various stages but in particular we are obviously seeing softer revenue growth coming out of the European which frankly just reflect the broader macroeconomic conditions in that region while bookings overall did perform above plan obviously the lower growth rates reflect the macroeconomic environment.
And then secondly frankly the international revenues this quarter had a little bit of a tougher compare year-over-year they were up 28% in Q1 2012 so that had an impact as well.
So Carl then if you want to add on the regions?  Yes John.
I just want to highlight a couple of things in our international business particularly out of the APJ region which continues to be the fastest growing region in the world for us and we saw continued strength come out of China.
We’re very pleased with their performance once again and we were very excited to see a nice rebound in our Australia New Zealand which we have mentioned in the prior calls had been slowing a bit but we saw a nice rebound this quarter which gives us really you know good reason for optimism as we look at the international market.
As far as the guidance in the (inaudible) year despite the potential slow-down in international because of Europe.
It's important to note that we did bake that into all of our operating plans and models internally and we have taken into account the tougher economic environment we’re faced within Europe.
If I could just follow-up for Jonathan you said that license booking were up 10% on you had the issue this quarter with the pivotal transaction and the sale for tech business.
Can you tell us the exact impact or the license differed license from those two issues or even cumulatively.
John we did not break out the impact on any particular elements specifically on license and those were just two examples in any particular quarter as you know there can be timing difference it's not one off differences and the two examples I shared were just examples of what we have seen this quarter.
I do think it's important know that we’re going to see a similar impact in Q2 as I explained in my prepared remarks.
In Q2 we’re seeing a specific removal of pivotal deferred revenues and also deferred revenues associated with some of our other business divestiture activities so the key thing though is that bookings for both license and total on a year-over-year basis for Q1 were up over 10% year-over-year.
Our next question will come from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I had a couple of questions the first one I was wondering Pat or Carl if you can talk a little bit about the transactional side of the business and some of the changes you have made and introduced at the partner conference in Q1.
How faster than impact can these changes have on that part of the business I mean should we start this really get a view from you in the second half of the year so can you talk a little bit about the progression of the ramp that you expect to see and then also given there is so much confusion about the 2K license guidance I might have missed this but can you give us the specific impact on 2K license guidance related to pivotal because I have to think that’s one of the reasons why you’re stock is down 7% or 8% in the aftermarket and people didn’t adjust their numbers if you said if you can just give us some clarity.
I think people might be able to then judge the business on an apples to apples basis if you don’t mind.
So let me start off talking Heather specifically about the transactional business.
As I said in my prepared remarks the transactional business did experience modest growth year-over-year in the early indications we’re getting from the market with the recent introduction of vSom production which vSphere plus operations management has been very encouraging both from the customer demand as well as the excitement we’re seeing from our channel to sell this into the market as a complete suite of solution going forward.
Also we continue to invest in our channel we continue to invest in ways to drive to transactional business to our partners by increasing potential margins if they can enjoy by selling our transactional solutions and I think as we get into the second half of the year you will start to see the impact of all of these changes and modifications we’re making to the transactional business model like vSom become more relevant and we will provide you more color on that as we get into the second half of the year.
And one last point I would make is we indicated that our OEM business had an impact on our overall transactional business in Q2 because when we look at the transactional business it includes our OEM business and we did experience a slight decline in our OEM business which is correlated in directly related to the X86 server shipments in particularly we saw the decrease in Europe.
If we were to exclude the OEM business from our transactional business the transactional business would have even been up slightly greater.
Greater.
Jonathan?  Before we just slide over to Jonathan to answer the pivotal impact on Q2 Carl I guess one follow-up would be what type of ASP uplift should we be expecting from the vSOM product versus the typical transaction business you are doing maybe 12 months ago?  So we need to get into this a little bit further meaning selling the vSOM into the market before we can provide any color around it.
We have provided color around the vCloud Suite and indicate that the vCloud Suite has a 3X uplift over traditional vSphere standalone but as a vSOM product we need to get another quarter under our belt before we can provide the same type of color going forward.
Okay thank you.
Yeah and Heather on the overall just to restate the Q2 guide reported revenues on an overall basis 8% to 10% but as on an apples-to-apples basis 11% to 14% taking out pivotal.
Yes the people we need the license impact.
Yes we did not break that out overall but you should assume.
I know you didn’t but I am just telling you from the probably 50 e-mails in my inbox that’s what people are looking for.
Yes the reported guide that we gave you was zero to three.
You should assume it’s going to be slightly higher than that but that’s the extent of what we have said.
Thank you.
Thank you Heather.
Next question?  Our next question comes from Phil Winslow of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Just first on the business I am wondering you can provide some more color in terms of what you have been saying in terms of vCloud Suite adoption particularly with the net promotion you have been drawing in the past two quarters? And then also just the pipeline then two just quick housekeeping items first what was the FX impact this quarter and how you think about that for next quarter and also a couple more of these businesses that you divested like the Protect business how is that affecting the revenue guidance for that this year? I am assuming that’s included in the numbers as well even though it’s small? Thanks.
Carl you want to start?  Yes let me just provide some additional color if you will Phil as it relates to the overall business and how we saw the quarter unfolds.
So first of all as Pat said we were very pleased with the performance across all three regions.
And we were particularly pleased with the sales execution that we saw around the world and to be able to get 29% of our bookings coming through ELAs in Q1 which is typically a tough seasonal quarter for technology companies just shows the sales execution and how we performed around the world.
So we are very pleased with sales execution across all the three regions.
As far as the vCloud Suite as I indicated in my prepared remarks about 75% of the vCloud Suite was sold into ELAs which is exactly what we had expected and this was the second full quarter of us having the vCloud Suite in the market.
And in both Q4 and Q1 we were pleased that our internal bookings be our internal plan for the vCloud Suite.
So the adoption and update from our customers has been even stronger than we would have expected showing improving that customers look to leverage as a powerful platform around software-defined datacenter we are bringing to market through the integrated suite known as vCloud Suite.
Yes.
And on the FX question Phil frankly we did not see a significant impact on overall growth rates in Q1 and as you will note I said that was reported and constant currency was the same.
And remember that about 70% or thereabout approximately 70% of our billings were actually in U.S.
dollars today.
So we do see a modest headwind but not significant frankly with respect to overall top line performance in the second quarter.
So overall we are not at this point seeing a significant impact on foreign exchange.
Thank you Phil.
And in the interest of time let’s just take one question from the remaining folks.
So next question please?  Our next question will come from Brent Thill of UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Pat just on the public cloud operators I believe Carl mentioned bookings were up about 100% can you just give us more color on your progress into that channel and any color will be helpful? Thank you.
Sure.
Carl do you want to discuss that?  Yes.
So as I indicated Brent in my prepared remarks we did see 100% growth in our VSPP which is our VMware Service Provider Program bookings in the quarter which shows our continued growth in offering a public crowd through our strategic partners around the world and at the same time as you know.
We introduced the notion of VMware entering the market with a hybrid cloud solution called vCloud hybrid service at the strategy day in New York back in March and as Pat and I have been touching a lot of customers in the last few weeks I can tell you there is very much a level of excitement from our customers and partners about VMware entering the market with a VMware branded hybrid cloud service and we will be providing a lot more detail around this on May 21st when we do the official launch of this hybrid cloud service at that time.
Pat anything to add in what you’re experiencing from customers?  Just echoing Carl’s comments that the customer interest in our insight out strategy for our hybrid cloud service visibility of being able to have a compatible cloud environment that extends their internal private cloud into the public cloud this idea is resonating very strongly and the interest that we’re seeing from that the beta customers that we’re putting on the service today are reaffirming that our strategy is strong and it meets the unique need in the marketplace and again being reinforced by our channel partners we think that this is on track for really have the very differentiated positioning to meet a growing interest in public and uniquely hybrid cloud service market.
Our next question will come from Keith Weiss of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
I wanted to dig into that figure that you gave 30% I believe of license bookings were outside of the core vSphere suite.
Just one clarification in that does that include vCloud as well in that number and the actual question outside of the clarification is can you give us a sense of how that number has changed overtime and maybe where that was a year ago and maybe where that was in Q4?  As we laid out in the strategy day we see that we’re broadening the VMware opportunity and in particular with software defined data center and network storage management hybrid cloud service and end-user computing and thus we’re extending from really a compute virtualization market to the $50 billion plus (inaudible) that we laid out for this broader market opportunity and this idea of giving this metric this 30% greater than 30% metric to us is important to help you have evidence that we’re accomplishing that evolution of our business model and that’s why we’re giving this a new indicator and one that you can expect to see from us going forward.
Jonathan maybe a bit more color.
So the total license bookings contribution from outside standalone vSphere is a metric we will continue first of all to share with you going forward and as you would expect the growth rates that we have been seeing from the average outside of just standalone vSphere have generally speaking being growing at a fast rate.
So the percentage penetration has been picking up over the course of the last few quarters.
I think it's important that we continue to focus on that because our strategy continues to be to bring suites to the market and also to provide bundle offerings.
We’re not just about stand-alone vSphere anymore.
I’m going to take the opportunity to just spend one second just to clarify the answer that I gave on license revenues for Q2 in response to Heather’s question I said modestly up and I’m going to specific the exact amount just to remove any confusion.
So we expect on apples to apples basis but license revenues taking out the effect of the full year of Pivotal year-over-year we will be up to 5% which compares to 0% to 3% roughly while the guidance range we gave on a reported basis.
So hopefully that helps clarify again up to the 5% for Q2 year-over-year license growth.
Our next question will come from Walter Pritchard.
Your line is open.
Just wondering again on the 30% in talking about the vSphere businesses thinking about the second half do we need to see vSphere actually return to growth? It looks like vSphere probably didn’t grow in the quarter given that mix and the overall especially license growth rate of slightly positive.
I’m wondering do we should we think about vSphere here as sort of a business that won't grow going forward and we need to see those other products drive the growth or do you expect the vSphere returns to growth in the second half to help drive that reacceleration that you are guiding to?  Carl maybe want to take that one?  Yeah well thanks for the question because I do think it’s important that we clarify how we think about vSphere today and going forward.
vSphere is a core component of our compute strategy.
And as you could expect it is part of all of the suites that we are bringing to market specifically the vCloud Suite and now the vSOM solution.
So when we think about vSphere we think it now about – we think about it in the context of providing a full solution for our customers.
We are now looking at as a standalone basis.
One of the reasons we are not is because a lot of the people who would traditionally just buy vSphere are now buying the vCloud Suite and vSOM.
So therefore the metric around standalone vSphere is no longer as relevant as it was in the past.
Alright Walter thank you for the question.
Before we finish Pat is going to have a few closing remarks.
Thank you Paul.
As I begin I am very pleased with our team despite a challenging environment we performed at the high end of our revenue guidance exceeded our already raised margin guidance and are well on track for the year with our next generation products that are clearly aligned with our three focused growth strategies.
We appreciate your time and thank you for joining us today.
This concludes today’s conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
And at this time all parties may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
At this time all participant lines are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections please disconnect at this time.
And now I’d like to turn the call over to your host Paul Ziots Director Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Beginning this quarter slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks.
It can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
Now that we’re finished with all realignment related divestitures we’ve also included in our earnings release and posted on our website six quarters of historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding pivotal and all 2013 divestitures such as Shavlik and Zimbra.
This is to just those of you who routinely estimate bookings or billings by adding our revenue to the sequential change in unearned revenue each quarter.
You should be aware that beginning with Q3 we’ll be providing forward-looking guidance during earnings webcasts only and guidance will not be included in earnings press releases as been our practice in the past.
Statements made on this call today include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today’s call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware’s performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software acquisition-related items and realignment related net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented a historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our Company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our third quarter 2013 quiet period begins at the close of business September 16 2013.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2012.
With that I’ll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Q2 was a strong finish to a solid first half of 2013 for VMware.
I’m very pleased with our team’s performance.
Q2 total revenues grew 11% year-over-year and exceeded the high-end of our guidance range and non-GAAP operating margin of 33.5% reached a record high.
Excluding pivotal and divestitures total revenues grew at even faster rate of 15% year-over-year.
The Company is aligned and focused.
We’re now substantially completed with our realignment activities.
With these actions behind us the energy and momentum of VMware's building as we focus on driving growth in the second half of 2013 and beyond.
Looking ahead we see tremendous opportunity based on our unique role in the industry.
We congratulate pivotal on the successful launch and are proud to be a big evolved stakeholder and an exciting new IT segment.
VMware continues to succeed because we’re uniquely positioned to help our customers move from the client server era to the mobile cloud era of computing.
Each new era requires a new generation of infrastructure for the enterprise.
VMware is positioned to deliver this information as we have the most comprehensive solution for the private public and hybrid cloud.
We do this with the richest ecosystems of partners in the industry and with increasing multi-cloud support giving our customers both a choice and agility.
Importantly as we help customers bridge to this new mobile cloud world we also help them capture significant cost savings by modernizing our existing applications in client server investments.
Thus our strategy is aligned with the IT requirements of both today and tomorrow.
Our strong performance in Q2 is a clear validation of our customer’s belief in this vision.
Our continuing goal is to power people and organizations by radically simplifying IT through virtualization software.
We intend to realize that goal by focusing on a combined $50 billion addressable market opportunity across three strategic growth priorities; software defined data center hybrid cloud and end user computing.
In Q2 our products that extend the portfolio beyond stand-alone vSphere represented more than 35% of license bookings.
I want to share with you some concrete examples of how we’re driving momentum and customer adoption in each of our three strategic growth areas.
For the software defined data center Carl will give details on the great momentum we’re seeing with vCloud Suite and our channel oriented bundle vSOM or vSphere with operations management.
Both of these demonstrate the increasing value our customers are capturing as we broaden our product portfolio.
We are also seeing the industry strongly embrace our SDDC strategy.
During Q2 we announced an SAP strategic partnership.
VMware will sell SAP HANA and Core applications as a subscription service on vCloud Hybrid Service and on premise with the vCloud Suite.
We also gave momentum in network virtualization with the announcement that NTT Communications will deploy VMware Network Virtualization as a core technology for its new cloud service.
In addition we’re pleased with the incremental opportunities presented to us by open stag and our ability to capture this opportunity.
Our second growth area is vCloud Hybrid Service which delivers a public cloud infrastructure as a service that is completely interoperable with existing VMware virtualized infrastructure.
In May we launched an early access program for vCloud Hybrid Service and the program is generating tremendous interest from our customers.
At the same time we achieved greater than 100% bookings growth year-over-year and our VMware Service Provider Program or VSPP which enables partners to build and manage VMware compatible cloud computing services on top of VMware technology.
At end user computing our Horizon View virtual desktop infrastructure product was granted Target Platform status by Epic Systems.
This is a significant partnership as Epic offers an integrated suite of healthcare software to large healthcare organizations and VMware is the only VDI provider to achieve Target Platform status.
We already have 12 customers running Epic on VMware View including Providence Health Systems Kettering Health Systems and Hackensack Medical Center.
We're also excited to announce later this month a new version of our Horizon Suite.
These are just a few examples of many we can point to as prove points that all three legs of our strategy are gaining momentum.
Overall our new products that extend the portfolio beyond standalone vSphere demonstrated strong double-digit growth clear evidence that we are continuing to accelerate customer adoption.
In closing I'd like to thank our customers partners and employees for their passion and engagement in Q2 as we continue to execute against our aspirational goal of becoming the greatest infrastructure software company of this decade.
I hope to see many of you at our annual VMworld event during the week of August 26th in San Francisco and at our financial Analyst Day on Monday August 26th.
We have a lot of exciting product and partner announcements to share at VMworld.
I'll now turn it over to Carl.
Thank you Pat.
I couldn't be more pleased with our performance in Q2.
Following a solid Q1 we delivered another strong quarter in Q2 and continue to execute against our three growth priorities; the software-defined data center hybrid cloud and end user computing.
We saw strong alignment to these priorities across all functions in the company and across our partner community.
Operationally we are consistently meeting our short-term goals as we continue to build a deep foundation for VMware's future.
Getting into the details Q2 was a strong quarter for bookings.
Results were in line or above expectations in all three of our geographic regions; Americas EMEA and Asia-Pacific.
Removing the effective pivotal and our 2013 divestitures we saw Asia-Pacific lead the way with year-over-year growth of total bookings in excess of 40%.
The Americas demonstrated strong growth of approximately 20% and EMEA grew in the mid teens despite the economic situation across much of Europe.
We also continued to receive high marks on customer satisfaction.
Supporting our own customer satisfaction reports the May 2013 tech vendor Net Promoter Score from Temkin which surveyed over 80 000 large North America companies ranked VMware as the highest Net Promoter Score amongst a list of 54 technology vendors.
VMware's rating was well above our industry peers and competition.
Overall we're outperforming on multiple fronts.
We closed six deals above $10 million and our field teams around the world did an outstanding job of closing ELAs.
Approximately 37% of total Q2 bookings were ELAs which is a record high for any quarter.
Furthermore Q2 was the highest ever in quarter renewal rate for ELAs in terms of number of deals renewed.
Approximately 75% of vCloud Suites were sold with ELAs.
We believe this strong performance across our ELAs and vCloud Suites is a clear indication of our customers' long-term commitment to VMware and the software-defined data center strategy.
Our professional services business was also a strong performer in Q2.
Increasingly customers are leveraging VMware as a strategic enabler to help them through the transition that Pat mentioned earlier from a client server to a mobile cloud era.
They're looking to VMware to help them design and implement many aspects of the software to find data center.
We also continue to see a solid tax rate of professional services to our ELA business.
Our overall ASPs have gone up both on a year-over-year and sequential basis.
vSphere with Operations Management or vSOM contributed to an improvement in our transactional business in Q2.
In its first full quarter of availability ASPs for vSOM tracked at approximately 1.3 times the ASPs for vSphere standalone.
As a result our transactional business ASPs have gone up sequentially.
Our strategy to strengthen the channel and broadly see the market with our management products is off to a good start.
Our support and subscription in quarter renewal rate reached an all-time high for any Q2 and the second highest rate of all time.
This is a strategic part of our portfolio.
It's highly profitable and a reflection of strong ongoing customer commitment to VMware.
Management automation and license bookings were our strongest growing product area this quarter and we are pleased with the sales teams and the channels capability to sell our management solutions.
As VMware's customers become more virtualized their needs increase for management automation and operations products.
Our customers continue to share with us their desire to get these products from their existing data center virtualization partner.
vCenter Operations Management suite remains our largest management product followed by vCloud Automation Center.
Increasingly management is helping to drive adoption of the software-defined data center.
This is reflected in the fact that a larger and larger portion of management is sold within vCloud Suite and vSphere with Operations Management.
Based on the opportunity in front of us and the traction we have seen to-date we will be building out a significant managers' specialist sales organization in the second half of 2013.
Our end user computing license bookings were up in the mid teens year-over-year.
This falls upon mid teens year-over-year growth performance in Q1.
We continue to make investments across the board in end user computing go-to-market activities.
Our teams have done a great job around the world hiring top talent many of whom have come from established companies in the industry.
Our investments in the area are paying off and we believe we're continuing to gain market share.
We also continue to be excited about our large service provider and enterprise customer proof-of-concepts underway in network virtualization.
Our success rate in these proof-of-concepts continues to be very high.
Last quarter we had design wins with NTT WorldPay and a number of others.
Unlike many technologies in the marketplace our NFS technology is in production and used today in supporting some of the largest appointments in the world and large customers such as Intel Rackspace Colt NaviSite and eBay.
As Pat said initial customer interest in vCloud Hybrid service is high.
Customers like Nexon a free-to-play online game company that is 100% virtualized on vSphere Digital River the revenue growth experts in global cloud commerce and Harley-Davidson dealer assistants are just a few of the examples of early access customers.
These customers want a seamless extension of their private cloud to the public cloud built on the trusted foundation of vSphere.
In addition our VMware service provider program once again tracked well in the quarter as public cloud providers continued to leverage our cloud infrastructure program for their service delivery.
As we've stated previously we believe this ecosystem of providers is second only to Amazon and public cloud market share in this program is one of the fastest growing parts of our business with bookings growth once again of over 100% year-over-year.
In summary we executed well in the first half of 2013 and are entering the second half of the year with strong momentum.
We're delivering industry changing innovation in the software-defined data center hybrid cloud and end user computing and we're pleased that customers are expressing significant excitement about our product deliverables later this year.
Our leadership team is focused energized and ready to deliver a strong second half for our customers and partners our employees and our investors.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thank you Carl.
We are very pleased with our Q2 results meeting or exceeding our goals for the quarter.
Our strategy is in place and we are executing the plan we have shared with you.
Starting with revenues Q2 total reported revenue growth of 11% year-over-year exceeded the high end of our guidance and license revenue $531 million came near the upper end of our guidance up 3% year-over-year.
Excluding pivotal and all divestitures total revenues grew 15% year-over-year in Q2 accelerating from 13% in Q1 and license revenues grew 5% year-over-year up from 1% in Q1.
Also note that currency negatively impacted both license and total revenue year-over-year growth rates in the quarter by approximately 1%.
Services revenue grew 18% year-over-year reflecting robust maintenance and services performance and ongoing momentum in subscription type businesses.
Moving to operating expenses and profitability unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis and I’ll reconcile to our GAAP results in the press release tables and posted on our investor relations website.
Operating margin was 33.5% a record high for any quarter in VMware’s history another top end of our guidance range.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q2 was up 16% year-over-year to $0.79 a share on 432 million shares.
We ended the quarter with approximately 12 900 employees which is down slightly from the beginning of the quarter and takes into account the transfer of pivotal employees.
We have substantially completed our realignment plan outlined in January and are now focused on continuing investment into our top strategic growth areas the software defined data center end user computer and the hybrid cloud.
Now moving to our balance sheet and cash flow metrics our balance sheet remained strong with cash and short investments at quarter end of $5.323 billion up $386 million sequentially.
Our GAAP operating cash flows remained strong as well and with $534 million up 36% year-over-year.
Our total cash spending on CapEx was $75 million and free cash flow was $458 million in Q2 up 32% year-over-year.
I’ll remind you that cash flow can be lumpy and I’ll talk more about this when I get to guidance.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares of our stock for a total of $120 million under our share repurchase program.
At an average price of about $73 a share.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $3.6 billion up 22% from Q2 2012 of which $1.37 billion is long-term.
Note that this reported number is after the removal of $101 million of unearned revenue in Q2 2013 associated with the formation of pivotal and our divestitures.
Of the $101 million $39 million was unearned license revenues.
Approximately 88% of our unearned revenues will be recognized rapidly over future quarters.
The unearned revenue mix is in line with prior periods and it's primarily a reflection of our strong maintenance business.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased which demonstrates a strong commitment to VMware as a core element of their data centers strategies.
Before I move to guidance I am going to expand on our earlier bookings commentary.
We were very pleased with our bookings performance in the quarter; many of you routinely estimate bookings or billings by adding our quarterly revenue to the sequential change in unearned revenue each quarter.
Over time these calculated bookings and associated growth rates have been a reasonable proxy for our actual bookings.
That being said the divestitures in 2013 have made like-to-like growth rates comparison difficult.
Since the business realignments have had some impact in our reported revenue and also our reported unearned revenue numbers.
The revenue and unearned revenue tables accompanying the press release should help you understand the underlying growth rates better.
I’ll also share that excluding pivotal and divestitures our license bookings for Q2 once again grew at a rate of greater than 10% year-over-year and our total bookings grew to a rate of greater than 20% year-over-year.
A significant portion of the double digit bookings increase is as a result of our success in products beyond standalone vSphere.
This includes management and automation end user computing vSphere with operations management vCloud Suite and the VMware service provider program.
In Q2 end user computing bookings were once again greater than 10% of total license bookings.
In total including EUC over 35% of our license bookings in Q2 were from these product areas beyond standalone vSphere.
This figure is up from approximately 25% in Q2 2012 and reflects the significant uptake in our newer products including the success of our Suite strategy with vCloud Suite and vSOM.
So again we're pleased with our bookings growth overall and the momentum in our Suites and newer products.
Now moving to guidance given our strong performance in Q2 we’re increasing the high end of our guidance for the full-year to $5.260 billion for a range of $5.120 billion to $5.260 billion representing year-over-year growth of 11% to 14%.
Excluding pivotal and our divestitures our total revenue growth for 2013 is expected to be between 15% and 18%.
License revenue is expected to grow 6% to 10% for the full-year as reported and 8% to 12% excluding pivotal and divestitures.
We expect non-GAAP operating margin to be in the range of 33% to 34% for the full-year.
As a reminder we intent to continue to invest in our strategic priorities and still expect headcount at the end of 2013 to be up by approximately 500 people from the start of the year.
GAAP operating margins for 2013 are expected to be approximately 12 to 15 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
We continue to project that our non-GAAP tax rate will be 18.5% for the year and we anticipate that our 2013 fully diluted weighted average share count will be between 431 million to 435 million shares.
Regarding cash flows why we do not provide cash flow guidance I’ll say that I am comfortable with the range of $2.1 billion to $2.35 billion for total operating cash flow for 2013 but I want to emphasize again the cash flow can be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter due to various factors including the timing of tax payments linearity of bookings and other factors.
In addition we continue to expect capital expenditures on a cash basis to range between $330 million and $370 million for the year.
Total revenues for Q3 are expected to range from $1.270 billion to $1.300 billion or a growth of between approximately 12% to 15%.
We currently anticipate Q3 license revenue to be between $535 million and $555 million representing growth to between 9% and 13%.
Excluding pivotal and divestitures total revenue growth for Q3 is expected to be between 17% and 20% and license growth is expected to be between 12% and 16%.
We expect operating margin in Q3 to be in the range of 32.5% to 34%.
We see a tremendous market opportunity ahead and continue to make investments in product development and regional expansion.
GAAP operating margins for the third quarter are expected to be approximately 12 to 15 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
For Q3 we estimate our non-GAAP tax rate to be 18.5% and we anticipate our third quarter 2013 fully diluted weighted average share count to be between $431 million to $435 million shares.
In summary we are very pleased with Q2.
Our goal is predictable consistent growth accelerating throughout the year and we saw that in Q2.
We had strong bookings performance.
We added to our deferred revenue and we delivered strong cash flow and operating margin.
We expect Q3 growth will be higher than Q2 and we have set a solid base in the first half of 2013 leading into a stronger second half.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I’ll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so that we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator lets get started.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Brian Marshall of the ISI Group.
Your line is open.
Great thanks guys.
It looks like I’m going to return in the back half of the year to double-digit license revenue growth.
Can you talk a little bit about the visibility you have in this rebound and it will great if you could perhaps give a little color on how ELA renewals are going to play a part of that process and how this is going to impact the overall license revenue growth in the back half.
Thank you.
Great thank you Brian this is Pat as we start the Q&amp;A time I just want to again emphasize how proud I am of the team and the performance in Q2.
As we look to the second half as you’re questioning here Brian we see that the first half has just presented us with a great opportunity to enter that second half with significant momentum and that’s across the entire business and across all of the geographies.
There are few specific points from that first half obviously as we look to the second half growth are beyond the standalone vSphere but it was very strong and as that continues to be a stronger portion of our overall bookings we also see that there is significant ELA opportunities and our Q2 ELA performance as Carl commented upon clearly gives us confidence about the ELA cycle as we go into the second half of the year.
So those combinations ride the momentum ride the ELA opportunity and beyond vSphere products clearly presents us with a great opportunity to deliver on exactly what we said we would right? And the second half acceleration and our Q2 is clear evidence that we're on track for that.
Thank you.
I'd like to just add a couple of things.
Thanks for the question Brian.
So we also are continuing to see our go-to-market investments payoff specifically in Asia-Pacific in the emerging markets like China and Japan and Southeast Asia.
And also we are excited about the investment we made in the first half of the year around our end user computing go-to-market and we expect to see acceleration in that business in the second half of the year as well.
And as we've always indicated we do expect to see an acceleration in the federal business in the second half of the year primarily in Q3 due to it being fiscal year end and based on our pipeline we do expect that to be the case.
So when you combine all that with what Pat had mentioned around the momentum coming out at Q2 we feel very confident in our guidance for the second half of the year.
Thank you Brian.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Raimo Lenschow of Barclay's.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congrats on a great quarter.
I just wanted to dig a little bit deeper Carl you mentioned already on the end user computing for the second half.
Can you just talk a little bit about the drivers there? I mean one thing I would assume is that you start building up the sales force in Q4 Q1.
I mean if I do the mechanics they should start getting productive in the second half.
Is there lots of ways to think about that second half momentum there and what are you seeing in terms of pipeline build there? Thank you.
Yeah sure.
You're indeed right.
Our investments in end user computing are clearly starting to pay off.
Once again in Q2 we saw mid teens growth in bookings in end user computing.
That's following on similar growth in Q1.
And as we go to the second half of the year we absolutely expect our end user computing sales force and the specialization sales force that we've build out there to have an impact and that is clearly one of the drivers of how we see acceleration in the second half taking place.
It is around end user computing and we're excited about the pipeline that we're starting to build and I would say the teams around the world have done an amazing job of hiring some great talent from the market and both from some of the industry veterans out there as well as some of our competitors are joining us because they see the opportunity that VMware represents in the end user computing space as we go forward.
Thank you Raimo.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
When I did the adjusted bookings calculation or billings growth calculation it looks like it came in the high 20s that looks very strong but my question is again related to the management and automation opportunity Pat could you comment on how long is it going to take for mainstream adoption of management and automation and where would you like your business to be in terms of percentage of new business billings coming from management and automation one two years? What are your longer term targets for that? Thank you very much.
Kash this is Jonathan.
Let me just quickly clarify.
So as we do the bookings calculation you should come up to a number north of 20 if you do the calculation but not high 20s so we can help with that offline if you like but just for everybody's benefit we are seeing total bookings north of 20.
And then Carl do you want to take the second part? Yeah.
Hi Kash.
How are you doing? Hope you're well.
So we see significant opportunity around management automation and orchestration as indicated by us in my prepared remarks saying it's a fastest growing product line.
And because of that we've decided to actually invest in our go-to-market for management and automation in the second half of the year in a very similar way that we did with end user computing in the first half of the year.
So we are very pleased to see the growth and that's without a specialized sales force so going forward we expect to see continued growth.
Also we're very excited to see the uptick and the continued growth of both of our vSOM product which launched for the first time in Q2 as well as our vCloud Suite because as you know a lot of our management and automation products are part of those suites or bundles and we saw great traction within the quarter.
So all of that combined with our go-to-market efforts that we're going to be building around with management and automation gives us a lot of confidence that we will continue to see that grow into the future.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from John DiFucci of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
First of all thanks for all that supplemental information at the back of the press release.
It's really helpful giving everything that's happening at VMware.
So when I exclude things that are no longer part of VMware I come up with license bookings growth of about 13% Jonathan which is pretty impressive here.
There's a lot of confusion I think in the investment community about what the opportunity is left in your core business? I think that said license bookings outside the core of vSphere accounted for about 35% of license bookings.
I guess my question is what does this mean for the core of vSphere business? We know that the x86 workloads are somewhere north of 60% have already been virtualized.
That doesn't mean that the compute capacity or the number of cores have been virtualized is anywhere near that but it also implies that the core growth here was less than 13 but we don't know.
If you could just maybe shine a little bit of light for a – I'll just stop talking here.
John let me just confirm that if you do a calculation you're in the right range by somewhat numbers we've shared and I do appreciate you making the comment about the detail we provided in the press release.
That's a lot of quarters' update and I'm glad it was helpful.
And I'll start and ask Carl to help me here.
Overall our strategy as we've laid out is to focus on the delivery of the broader than just vSphere opportunity.
And with that we expect that strong installed base that we have through the [springboard] for the rest of the vCloud Suite vSOM and increasingly deliver in software-defined data center going forward and hence the individual components become less important as the emphasis shifts to focus on the overall software-defined data center.
And as such it really is largely a just breaking out with the components of that would be which increasingly becomes more and more arbitrary as the real value is delivered and that complete set of technologies coming together.
We will say that the growth continues inside of the core – the amount of sockets the amounts of our core vSphere business has continued to grow.
Carl commented on the increase in the ASPs per socket.
There's just clear evidence of the strategy playing out as well and overall we do believe that the strength of the opportunity for us is to move into these new areas which we saw substantial growth in this quarter.
Carl additional comments.
Yeah.
John let me just reiterate a couple of things there because I do think it's important that we do view the core vSphere business as an opportunity for growth in the future.
And one of the ways we measure that is by actually the unit growth year-over-year and within the quarter we did see solid growth in vSphere units year-over-year.
That combined with the fact that we saw an increase in our ASPs both sequentially on a year-over-year basis means we're getting more per socket for license sold.
And when you combine all of that John and you combine the fact that vSphere is always included in both our vSOM Suite as well as our vCloud Suite solutions we're very bullish on the opportunity for the core vSphere business to continue to grow in the second half of the year.
Thank you John.
Next question please.
Our next question will come from Brent Thill of UBS.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Jonathan if you go to your Q4 implied license guidance that would effectively put you back on par with coming out of the recession in '09.
You haven't seen that type of license reacceleration.
I'm curious that I think a number of clients believe that that still the stretch.
Why do you feel like it's not a stretch from what you're seeing from the data that you're seeing internally? Brent thank you for the question and it's sort of a follow-up to the very first question we were asked.
Again when you look at the acceleration we've seen and the performance we've seen in Q2 the year is playing out as we said it would and we're executing as we expect and it's important and this is why to John's question just previously why we've shared the data underlying our growth rate and the core parts of our business that are our asset pivotal and after the divestitures.
We've spent a lot of time over the last six months preparing ourselves for the opportunity ahead and by focusing ourselves on software-defined data center end user computing and the opportunities presented by the hybrid cloud.
The underlying growth rates in our business are accelerating.
We saw license bookings growth north of 10%.
You will calculate a number roughly around 13% from the data we’ve shared.
And we’ve also seen total bookings in excess of 20% this quarter.
These are all signs of momentum and indicators of why we think the back half will continue to perform.
So the year is playing out as we anticipated and we’re confident with the guidance we’ve given.
Thank you Brent.
Our next question please.
Our next question is from Phil Winslow of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
You obviously mentioned an expectation for strength in the ELA business going into the second half.
Just kind of two questions beyond that first on just the transactional side sort of what did you see this quarter and just your outlook there for the second half.
And then as far as the ELA business goes into sort of what's embedded in expectations how much of there is based kind on just obviously a strong renewal cycle but also sort of a strong renewal cycle plus up sell of vCloud’s where you gaining sort of acceleration or just versus the first half or any commentary would be great.
Phil I hate to be a stickler here but would you like the ELA side or the transactional side.
We’re going to keep it to one per person for the call to get through as many as we can.
I guess we’ll do ELA then.
Thank you.
So hey Phil this is Carl.
So first let me just can reiterate something we said and I guess Jonathan Pat and I have all said we were pleased with all the aspects of our business in Q2 both our ELA business and our transactional business.
Our ELA business in Q2 represented 37% of our bookings which was an all time high.
And another point that I mentioned in my prepared remarks was the fact that we had our highest ever in quarter renewal rate of ELAs which is a very positive sign that our customers are looking to invest and strategically align with us for their ongoing datacenter needs.
I also talked about the fact that we had six deals greater than $10 million in the quarter four of them were actually renewals.
So customers continue to renewal with us on an ongoing basis so that was a very strong sign.
And as you know in any given quarter ELA business can be lumpy but across the world I was very pleased with the team’s ability to execute and drive ELAs to closure in the quarter and we did see a very nice attach rate of vCloud Suites to our ELAs about 75% of our vCloud Suites actually were in conjunction with ELAs.
So our strategy to drive ELAs with vCloud Suite is paying off.
If you take that momentum coming out of Q2 and look at the second half of the year but we had indicated about two thirds of our ELA renewal opportunity would take place.
We feel very confident in the second half guidance and we do expect to have a very strong ELA renewal cycle in the second half of the year.
It's also important to note that the ELA renewal’s right are only one portion of our ELA business.
We’re actually seeing more and more customers enter into ELAs for the first time as they become more virtualized and look for more management and automation solutions they’re actually now entering into multi-year enterprise agreements with us to get all of their needs for a two to three year horizon.
Great.
Thank you for understanding Phil on the one question.
Let’s go to the next question please.
Certainly.
Our next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Great.
I’ll take the transactional side of the business.
It looks like you guys saw a slight improvement in the year-over-year growth rate this quarter versus last.
I guess I’m just wondering if you could share with us what type of growth range you think is reasonable for the transactional business in the second half of the year and I guess specifically I’m wondering if we should start seeing accelerating growth in this segment on a year-over-year basis now that vSOM is in the market and appears to be gaining some good initial traction.
Thank you.
Yeah Heather let me take that this is Carl.
So as I indicated in our prepared remarks our overall ASPs were actually up year-over-year and sequentially and our transactional ASPs were up sequentially which was a good sign for us and that was off the back of a strong first quarter of availability of our vSOM bundle which is vSphere with vCloud operations management.
So we’re very pleased with our results in Q2.
As you know we don’t provide any type of specific guidance around our transactional business or our ELA business for that matter but we clearly based on results in Q2 expect to see some continued incremental growth and improvement in our transactional business in the second half of the year.
And as I said earlier when you’re growing your units as well as you’re increasing your ASPs that is a good sign that the health of the transactional business is in place.
Thank you Heather.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Jason Maynard of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hey guys good afternoon.
Carl just one question for you there’s a perception in the market place clearly that VMware is having a harder time making the transition if you will to this level above the core of vSphere product line and I know vSOM being out is going to be a good thing.
But if you go talk to some of the relative some of the more early edge customers they’re all looking to move towards OpenStack and there’s a lot to talk about if you were replicating a Google or Facebook like infrastructure how do you position effectively or how do you tell that story that VMware is not if you will just locking you into this proprietary vStack and there are advantages against this growing movement around OpenStack? Thanks.
Sure.
Let me start and then I’ll – Jason and then I’ll turn it over to Carl to add to it.
An OpenStack has clearly speaking on a topic of many of our customer conversations and as VMware’s goal is to be this cloud infrastructure software leader we’ve also made clear statements that we are building a strategy that will support OpenStack in a very effective way and we call it our component strategy where we are embracing the OpenStack APIs adding them to our product and then selling our best in class common technologies into this OpenStack framework.
And while it's early and the OpenStack offering is immature we see this as an incremental opportunity largely to these large scale internet providers and service providers that they’re looking for this OpenStack environment unless we can sell our additional best of class technologies into that environment.
We’ve made a number of announcements around vSphere around management and of course our networking products as embracing this strategy.
And as a fact we looked carefully at the OpenStack customers those who have publicly made some statements around OpenStack and our business grew for year-on-year by the quarter and the first half not only grew with them but in fact grew faster than the rest of VMware’s business.
So as a result we’ve seen that our customers really are embracing this strategy and we’re having great success in selling those component strategy into OpenStack unless the options that we’re giving them where the flexibility of choice is being quite effective to-date.
Yeah Jason I think the other part of your question was how are we transitioning transforming re-evolving our sales force and our channel to sell more solution oriented products into the market and I’d say its going actually quite well and we look at through multiple ranges.
If you look at it through the vCloud Suite lens right for the fourth consecutive quarter our vCloud Suite has actually performed from a booking space above our internal plan which means both our direct sales force and our channel are becoming more and more skilled at selling the four software defined data center suite.
So that’s number one.
Number two we’ve put in place a large enablement plan both for our own sales force and the channel.
And an indication of that is last quarter we brought our top partners from around the world together and did nothing but spend time in talking to them about how to sell the vCloud Suite and specifically sell the software defined data center component.
So I’m bullish on the fact that we’re enabling our direct sales force and our channel to be more skilled at selling the complete solution that we have associated with the vCloud Suite.
Thank you Jason.
Next question please.
Our next question will come from Rob Owens with Pacific Crest.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I want to ask a little bit about the hybrid cloud which you’re seeing in terms of early adoption from your successes and also what pricing looks like as it seems some of the competition has been cutting pricing fairly aggressively? Thanks.
So our early response from the hybrid cloud has actually been very strong from customers.
And as we said we’re in the early access program and thus we’re still very early in this but we’ve had overwhelming interest from customers to be part of that program.
Its still very early but their response to it clearly gives us an indication at this idea of a transparent hybrid cloud the ability to manage same security same policies flexibly move across that environment for both their existing work loads and their emerging work loads has been highly effective and as a result we believe that we really have hit the nail on the head with the value proposition that the enterprise customers are interested in.
Carl a few points to add? No I think Pat you hit most of them.
I do believe we’ve a unique offering in the market and we’re truly the only company out there that can deliver a hybrid cloud in a seamless way for enterprise class customers.
So we are working hard to enable our sales force and our channel to be capable of selling this and it goes into full GA in Q4.
And as you indicated Pat the early interest in vCloud hybrid service is quite strong and our pipeline continues to build as we head towards general availability in Q4.
Thank you Rob.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Shaul Eyal of Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Congrats on a very excellent quarter.
Back on Thursday your only runner up in the server virtualization market reported mixed results at best I think also in the server and tools division.
What are you seeing from your perspective as it relates to kind of the competitive landscape? Thank you Shaul and I assume you're referring to Microsoft in that and frankly the competitive dynamic hasn't changed at all as we see Microsoft.
When we go head to head with them we rarely if ever see ourselves losing.
We tend to see them compete at the low end of the marketplace where we have offerings and more limited vSphere conditions or product line additions at the lower end of the marketplace.
And as we focus more and more in the differentiation of the complete software-defined data center as we've doing we see the differentiation that we have been more substantial in increasing compared to Microsoft or other competitors and thus we continue to execute our playbook and given our results I think they speak for themselves vis-à-vis Microsoft or anybody else.
Thank you Shaul.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Matt Hedberg of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks guys.
In terms of software-defined data center I'd love to hear maybe some early customer feedback as well as how the sales force ultimately is going to be [incentivized] facilities products and maybe how it should contribute to your large deal portfolio? Hi Matt.
This is Carl.
Thanks for the questions.
So as I indicated earlier this is the fourth quarter we've had the vCloud Suite in the market and for the fourth consecutive quarter we beat our internal plans.
So clearly there's customer demand and pull from the market.
And as I said we continue to enable and bring skill set to both our direct sales force and our channel to get them better positioned and skill to drive the software-defined data center value proposition into our customer base.
As far as ELA if you will implementations we have a number of customers that implemented the entire suite and are starting to see if you will the first generation of the software-defined data center through the vCloud Suite.
And at the end of this year we expect to showcase a number of customers who have implemented the entire suite and share the success of what we're doing with the vCloud Suite.
Thank you Matt.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Gregg Moskowitz of Cowen.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Thank you.
Carl your comment earlier about seeing more and more customers enter into ELAs for the first time with I would imagine comes a surprise to most of the people on the call.
Can you just discuss the type line as well as the overall opportunities for getting more of your large customer install base to embrace ELAs? Yeah so to be honest Gregg I don't think it should be that big of a surprise.
You've seen our ELA business continue to grow throughout the years and it really is driven by the adoption of virtualization as more and more customers become more virtualized they're looking for the full suite of solutions from VMware.
And when they do that they mostly enter into an ELA so they can get frictionless deployment of our technology on an ongoing basis.
So we're not surprised.
We're seeing more and more customers enter into ELAs with us.
And when you combine that with the success of our renewal rates the ELAs that expire either in quarter or within the year we're very pleased with our ELA business and we expect this will be a big portion of our success going forward.
So it's not a surprise to us and we're delivering to our customers a very good solution that they're interested in and it shows a strong commitment from our customers to strategically align with us over a two to three-year horizon.
Thank you Gregg.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Rick Sherlund of Nomura.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
I had a question that's on your market opportunity going forward.
I'm wondering if you could characterize for us maybe what percentage of your vSphere market is running a broader suite solution and maybe some idea of the road map going forward in terms of product deliverables as you deliver more on software to find storage and software to find networking when would we expect to see more products flow and revenue generation from those products? Let me – maybe I will address somewhat the sequencing of the technologies in SDDC and then let Carl add a few comments on the vSphere opportunity specifically in the SDD and the size of that SDD you see opportunity.
Overall what we said is we see this as a very large expansion of our market as we move into networking security storage availability and management of automation.
Clearly the management and automation we’re still very early in that attach rate and that’s the fastest growing one so that one is now becoming substantive as part of our product revenues.
Here we see networking and security that as we've [indiscernible] before in that area that this year is about those early lighthouse wins and getting early traction and we really don’t expect that to be a meaningful contributor on revenue until beginning in ’14 and beyond.
Storage right is of those elements will be the latest one as we’re just beginning to deliver those technology this year at VMworld.
So we really don’t expect that to contribute substantively to our opportunity right until the later part of ’14 or into ’15 when that starts to pick up.
So each of these will have their natural gestation cycles but vSphere the most mature management network security and then a storage and availability in that order over time.
Carl? Yeah and I think the other question Rick was specifically about the opportunity for vSphere and how are we doing and upgrading them either to vSOM or vCloud Suite.
And I’d say at this point right although we’ve had a lot of success with vCloud Suite and now with vSOM last quarter.
We see a significant opportunity to go and upgrade our install base of vSphere which you all know is very rich out there and these additional solutions going forward.
And I can tell you we’ve a very low penetration rate at this time with both vCloud Suite and vSOM so we see a rich opportunity going forward to upgrade them to a lot of the components of the software define data center.
Thank you Rick.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Patrick Walraven of JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thank you.
You know Pat one comment that I hear increasingly from portfolio managers is that they don’t or they worry about only names they compete with the Amazon web services.
They look at what Amazon did to the retail industry and they worry maybe they'll do something similar to IT.
He just address the high level how you would respond to those concerns.
Thank you.
When we’ve launched our vCloud Hybrid Service we’ve explained very clearly to the market why this is different and unique for the enterprise customer.
The enterprise market is very amateur for taking advantage of any public cloud and there is a whole bunch of reasons for that around FLAs around GRC around proprietary interfaces.
And what they really want is a team of hybrid cloud.
They’re not interested in a public cloud that doesn’t allow them flexibility to move back and forth be able to address today’s applications as well as tomorrow.
And this for us is the opportunity.
And as we were still early we don’t have all of the financial metrics to demonstrate this but I will tell you from the customers that we have interacted with their response to this messaging has been overwhelmingly positive.
And we really believe that positioning for the enterprise customer is unique and powerful and they’re looking at us as a trusted partner to deliver the software defined data center.
On-premise in the cloud and in federation with each other the hybrid cloud service of tomorrow.
Thank you Pat.
Next question please.
The next question is from Michael Turits of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Yes.
My question is by ELA.
The question has been asked before from a metric perspective where you’re coming in on ELA is relative to that was sort of benchmarking of a 120% of new ELA value versus old.
Is that about what you’re coming in and has that been increasing – that increase this quarter versus last quarter? Michael this is Jonathan.
Thank you for the question.
What we’ve consistently said is that ELAs renewal rates have stayed very consistent.
Obviously we talk this quarter about a strong quarter for renewals but we also said consistently on a 12 months basis the overall renewal value is over a 100% and what’s we shared in the past and I can tell you today that metric is as truly today as it has been.
So as Carl shared with you on this call we’ve been very encouraged by the renewal experience this quarter which is one of a – number of reasons why we’re very confident about the back off of the year as well.
Thank you Michael.
I think we’re going to have one last question.
So the last question please.
Certainly.
Our last question comes from Daniel Ives of FBR.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Maybe from a high level I mean obviously there's been a lot of transition with the new management team your new people in different places talk about may be the organization today VMware relative to where it was six months ago Pat from how you see it? Sure.
Thank you very much Daniel.
Clearly the industry is in a period of transition and VMware has laid out and we’ve really asserted a set of changes that we need to make to focus VMware and with that we’re actively strengthening our leadership team internally and externally we’re attracting new talent we’ve added over 500 people in the first half of the year to the Company a very quality people we have a fabulous campus that we’re building out here.
We continue to be viewed right as a serial innovator in the industry of disruptive and radical technology and this focus effort has brought just incredible clarity to the organization right of what we’re out to accomplish in the industry and with our customers.
And as I said at the outset the momentum is building and the Company is focused and excited as we never had been before.
And before we conclude Pat will have some final remarks.
So in closing I’m very pleased with our team’s performance in Q2.
We exceeded the high-end of our total revenue guidance.
We achieved a record non-GAAP operating margin and overall we’re executing to the plan we shared with you.
The Company like the last question asked we’re aligned focused the energy and momentum is building as we focus on the second half of ’13 and beyond.
We invite you again to VMworld.
I look forward to seeing you all there.
We appreciate your time and thanks for joining the call today.
Thank you for your participation on today’s conference call.
At this time all parties may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference is being recorded.
If there are any objections you may disconnect at this time.
I’d now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Paul Ziots Senior Director Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware’s third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Patrick Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in earnings release and posted on our website seven quarters of historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
Statements made on this call today include forward-looking statements such as those with the words will believes expects continues and similar phrases that denote future expectation or intent regarding our financial outlook product offerings customer demand and other matters.
These statements are based on the environment as we currently see it and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to the press release and the risk factors and documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission including our most recent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K for information on risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such statements.
In addition during today’s call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware’s performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software acquisition-related items and realignment related net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our fourth quarter 2013 quiet period begins at the close of business December 16 2013 unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be a reference to our results for the comparable period of 2012.
With that I will turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Q3 was a strong quarter for us as we continued our solid performance for all three quarters of 2013.
I’m very pleased with our changed performance and the quarter played out largely as we expected.
Q3 total revenues grew 14% year-over-year above the midpoint of our guidance range excluding pivotal and divestitures total revenues grew at an even faster rate of 19% year-over-year.
Q3 license revenues excluding pivotal and divestitures grew 17% year-over-year exceeding the high end of our guidance range.
Non-GAAP operating margin reached 33.9%.
VMware continues to build momentum globally because we’re uniquely positioned to help our customers transform to the mobile cloud era of computing.
With our portfolio of solutions that extend from the desktop to the data center to the cloud we’re enabling IT teams to liberate resources from the client server environments while building the mobile cloud infrastructure that will power their businesses into the future.
Our strong performance in Q3 is clear validation that our customers have confidence in our ability to help them address the IT requirements of both today and tomorrow.
Across the business we’re laser focused on delivering unique customer value in three strategic growth areas software defined data center hybrid cloud and end-user computing.
These three focus areas are powerful individually but also produce significant advantages for VMware by leveraging synergies across these three inter-related businesses.
For example we recently announced our new desktop as a service offering using technology from our Desktone acquisition.
One of the keys to that offering is our ability to host that solution in our vCloud Hybrid service which in turn leverages all the speed and cost benefits of our software defined data center architecture.
We’re excited about our acquisition of Desktone as they are the industry leader in desktop as a service.
Together VMware Desktone are well positioned to help our customers quickly modernize and move their desktop infrastructure to the cloud.
At VMware we’re delivering against the vision for the industry that is backed up by bold customer centric innovation that will radically transform IT again.
At VMworld in the United States and VMworld in Europe last week we engaged with more than 31 000 customers and partners a record attendance.
We announced three game changing technologies in vCloud Hybrid service our Virtual SAN Storage solution and our NSX network virtualization platform.
In addition we also announced an entire refresh of our industry leading cloud management suite this was the single most impressive and impactful display of VMware innovation in the 10 year history of VMworld.
We demonstrated that the software defined data center is real with strong customer momentum.
We laid out our comprehensive vision for the SDDC approximately 1 year ago and we’re now delivering concrete business value and differentiated solutions against that vision.
As part of our NSX launch we were joined by IT leaders from Citigroup eBay and General Electric three iconic global companies whose executives spoke with conviction about how network virtualization is critical important to speeding innovation as they focus on networking as the next step on their path to the software defined data center.
A critical component of SDDC is IT management and we continue to show how traditional IT management practices are giving way to automation enabling IT teams to move at a higher velocity to support top priority business objectives.
VMware now ranks number one worldwide in cloud management according to IDC.
In addition to expanding our product portfolio we have been adding significant depths to our leaderships bench Sanjay Poonen joined VMware from SAP in July to lead our end user computing business.
Sanjay Mirchandani joined us from EMC to lead our Asia-Pacific and Japan business and Tony Scott joined VMware in August as CIO having previously served as CIO at Microsoft and the Walt Disney Company.
In fact we have aggressively added talent across all levels of the organization with 700 net new employees hired into VMware in Q3 alone.
This is the bottom line.
VMware is attracting world class talent and our engineering teams continue to deliver breakthrough innovations that drive deep business value for our customers.
In closing I’d like to thank our customers partners and employees for their passion and engagement in Q3 as we carry our momentum into Q4 and set ourselves up for 2014.
I will now turn it over to Carl.
Thank you Pat.
I couldn’t be more pleased with our performance in Q3.
We built on the momentum of Q2 and delivered yet another strong quarter.
Q3 went largely as planned removing the effect of pivotal and our 2013 divestitures both license bookings and total bookings grew in the high-teens year-over-year.
For the third consecutive quarter in 2013 we are very pleased with this balanced performance across all three regions.
Total bookings in each of our regions the Americas Asia-Pacific and EMEA grew in the mid to high-teens year-over-year in Q3.
I would also note that due to our success in helping customers both dramatically save cost and build architectures for the future we exceeded our expectations for the U.S.
federal business in Q3.
This was in part due to closing the largest ELA in our company’s history this quarter with the U.S.
Army.
This was a consolidation of what would have otherwise been a number of smaller ELAs and a deal we had been tracking for a few quarters.
We were pleased with our team’s ability to execute in what was otherwise a challenging federal environment.
Excluding the U.S.
Army deal our federal business was flat year-over-year.
In addition we had record attendance at VMworld in the U.S.
and VMworld in Europe.
We couldn’t be more pleased with the energy and excitement of our customers and partners at both of these events.
We expect to touch another 27 000 customers and partners during our vForums across Asia-Pacific and Japan.
Overall we are outperforming on multiple fronts.
We closed five deals above $10 million and once again our field teams around the world did an outstanding job of closing ELAs.
Approximately 33% of total Q3 bookings were ELAs and Q3 was VMware’s second highest in quarter renewal rate for ELAs in terms of number of deals renewed.
In addition for the fifth consecutive quarter our vCloud Suite sales exceeded our internal plans.
We also saw vSOM or vSphere with Operations Management exceed internal plans once again in the second full quarter on the market.
We are continuing to make progress with our strategy to strengthen the channel and broadly see the market with our operations in management products.
The combination of vCloud Suite and vSOM is enabling our customers to make long-term investment decisions with VMware and to partner with us as we take them on the journey to the software-defined data center.
As we do this we are seeing overall increases in our ASPs.
Our professional services bookings growth in Q3 was once again solid.
Our customers continue to use VMware’s professional services as a strategic enabler as they make the transition from a client server environment to the mobile cloud era.
Our support and subscription in quarter renewal rate was the second highest rate of all-time.
This is a strategic part of portfolio.
It’s highly profitable and a reflection of strong ongoing customer commitment to VMware.
Management and automation license bookings were once again our strongest growing product area this quarter.
As VMware’s customers become more virtualized and adopt a private and hybrid cloud strategy that is designed to deliver more business agility their needs increase for innovative industry defining management automation and operations products.
Our customers continue to share with us their desire to get these products from their existing data center virtualization partner.
Customers are also integrating management products in more parts of the business as a wider range of decision-makers are purchasing management functionality from VMware including CIOs CFOs VPs of IT finance VPs of operations etcetera.
We continue to work closely with VPs of infrastructure who had been traditionally purchasers of our management products.
Based on the opportunity in front of us and the traction you’ve seen to-date we will continue building out a significant management specialist sales organization throughout the remainder of FY ’13 and into 2014.
And as we announced last week in Barcelona w will be releasing new versions and updates to the entire management portfolio for vCloud vSOM and standalone sales.
These portfolio updates include major new releases for our vCloud automation center and IT business management solutions and significant updates to vCenter operations management and vCenter Log Insight solutions.
These new releases significantly help continue VMware’s market momentum and leadership.
Turning to our end-user computing business after two consecutive quarters of year-over-year license bookings growth in the mid-teens our end user computing license bookings were down year-over-year with a decrease in the low single digits in Q3.
However we believe we continue to gain market share as a result of our continuing investments such as building out an end-user computing specialist sales force in all three geographies.
For example in IDCs October 2013 Asia-Pacific Client Virtualization market analysis VMware was the market share leader in 2012 by a margin of nearly 10 percentage points and IDC expects VMware to grow market share by more than any other vendor in 2013.
We also continue to be excited about our large service provider and enterprise customer proof of concepts underway in network virtualization.
Our success rate in this proof of concepts continues to be very high.
Unlike many technologies in the marketplace our NSX technology is in production use today and supporting some of the largest deployments in the world.
We saw strong NSX momentum coming out of VMworld and delivered more than 5000 hands-on labs associated with NSX.
We also announced the general availability of NSX worldwide and an impressive list of over 30 partners that are aligned with us.
Our hybrid cloud business including VSPP grew once again at more than 100% year-over-year following the U.S.
availability of vCloud hybrid service we recently announced the opening of our second and third data centers in the U.S.
In addition we announced our plans to bring vCloud hybrid service to the United Kingdom as data in Q4 with availability in Q1 of 2014.
Customer interest remains high because VMware is the only company positioned to deliver a seamless extension from the private to the hybrid cloud.
In summary we executed against plan in Q3.
We’re pleased with our performance but even more importantly we’re energized by the enthusiasm coming out of our recent customer interactions at VMworld.
We’re delivering industry changing innovations in the software defined data center hybrid cloud and end-user computing and our customers and partners are excited to continue the journey with VMware.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan Chadwick.
Thank you Carl.
We’re very pleased with our Q3 results meeting or exceeding all of our key goals for the quarter.
We’re executing the plan we have shared with you and the year continues to play out as we expected.
Q3 total reported revenue growth of 14% year-over-year was above the midpoint of our guidance range.
License revenues of $564 million were up 15% year-over-year and exceeded the upper end of our guidance.
Excluding pivotal and all divestitures total revenues grew 19% year-over-year in Q3 accelerating from 15% in Q2 and 13% in Q1 license revenue growth accelerated to 17% year-over-year up from 5% in Q2 and 1% in Q1.
Overall services revenue grew 13% year-over-year excluding pivotal and all divestitures services revenue grew 20% year-over-year.
Moving to operating expenses and profitability.
Unless otherwise noted all references to our expenses and operating results are on a non-GAAP basis and are reconciled to our gap results in the press release tables and posted on our investor relations website.
Operating margin was 33.9% another high end of our guidance range for Q3.
We continue to invest in our business and we’re pleased to see that total headcount increased by almost 700 heads [ph] to a total of just over 13 600 heads at the end of September.
These investments were primarily targeted to sales coverage including our sales specialist and emerging market teams and the product teams from management networking hybrid cloud and end user computing.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q3 was up 20% year-over-year to $0.84 per share on approximately 433 million shares.
Now moving to our balance sheet and cash flow metrics.
Our balance sheet remained strong with cash and short investments at quarter end of $5.8 billion up $514 million sequentially.
Our operating cash flows remained strong as well and were $637 million up 46% year-over-year.
Our total cash spending on CapEx was $94 million and free cash flow was $543 million in Q3 up 50% year-over-year.
Our cash flows this quarter reflected our robust operating performance with strong collections activities and lower expenses.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of our stock for a total of $90 million under our share repurchase program at an average price of around $74 per share.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $3.64 billion up 21% from Q3 2012 and of which $1.41 billion is long-term.
Approximately 89% of our unearned revenues will be recognized rapidly over future quarters.
The unearned revenue mix is in line with prior periods and is primarily a reflection of our strong maintenance business.
Customers continue to buy on average more than 24 months of support and maintenance with each new license purchased which demonstrates the strong commitment to VMware as the core element of their data center strategies.
Before I move on to guidance I will provide some further updates regarding our product portfolio.
As was the case in Q2 a significant portion of our high-teens year-over-year bookings increase in Q3 is as a result of our success in the category of products beyond standalone vSphere.
This category includes management and automation end user computing vSphere with Operations Management vCloud Suites and the VMware Service Provider Program.
In Q3 over 40% of our license bookings were from these product areas beyond the standalone vSphere.
This figure is up from approximately 30% in Q3 of 2012 and reflects the significant uptake in our newer products including the success of our suite strategy with vCloud Suites and vSOM.
So again we are pleased with our bookings growth overall and the momentum in our Suites and newer products.
Now moving to guidance.
Since Q3 total revenues finished according to our expectations.
We are maintaining the midpoint of full year 2013 guidance of $5.190 billion and narrowing the range to between $5.175 billion and $5.205 billion representing year-over-year growth of 12% to 13%.
Excluding pivotal and divestitures our total revenue growth for 2013 is expected to be between 16% and 17%.
Given our strong license revenue performance in the third quarter license revenue for the full year is now expected to be within the range of $2.255 billion and $2.275 billion representing 8% to 9% growth as reported and 10% to 11% excluding pivotal and divestitures.
In both cases this represents an increase in the midpoint of guidance by approximately one half of a percentage point.
In addition given our strong operating margin performance in Q3 we now expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 34% for the full year.
While this is ahead of the target we have shared previously we continue to invest in our strategic priorities and still expect headcount at the end of 2013 to be up by approximately 500 people from the start of the year.
GAAP operating margins for 2013 are expected to be approximately 13 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
We continue to project that our non-GAAP tax rate will be 18.5% for the year and we anticipate that our 2013 fully diluted weighted average share count will be between 431 million shares to 435 million shares.
In regard to cash flow given our strong cash flow performance this quarter we are raising the range of our outlook for 2013 operating cash flow and increasing the midpoint by $175 million.
Our new outlook for 2013 operating cash flow is between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion.
As a reminder cash flow can be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter due to various factors including the timing of tax payments linearity of bookings and other factors.
And at this stage we continue to expect capital expenditures on a cash basis to range between $330 million and $370 million for the year.
Total revenues for Q4 are expected to range from $1.450 billion to $1.480 billion or a growth of between approximately 12% to 14%.
We currently anticipate Q4 license revenue to be between $670 million and $690 million representing growth of between 12% and 16%.
Excluding pivotal and divestitures total revenue growth for Q4 is expected to be between 18% and 20% and license growth is expected to be between 15% and 19%.
I will make two additional comments on revenue firstly we expect a fairly flat year-over-year performance in the U.S.
Federal and continue to monitor any potential effects of the U.S.
government shutdown.
And secondly given the typical seasonal strength of Q4 we’re expecting to build both license deferred and total deferred revenue but at a lower sequential dollar value increase as to compared with last year.
We expect non-GAAP operating margin in Q4 to be in the range of 35% to 36%.
We see a tremendous market opportunity ahead and we will continue to make investments in product development and sales expansion.
GAAP operating margins for the fourth quarter are expected to be approximately 9 to 12 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
For Q4 we estimate our non-GAAP tax rate to be 18.5% and we anticipate our fourth quarter 2013 fully diluted weighted average share count to be between 431 million to 435 million shares.
Finally I will share some early comments about 2014 more detailed guidance will follow in January.
We continue to see the opportunities to grow total revenues in the range of approximately 15% year-over-year.
We also remain focused on our non-GAAP operating margin plan previously shared with you at the strategic forum in March and again at Financial Analyst Day in August and we expect the total year non-GAAP operating margins to come in at approximately 34%.
GAAP operating margins for 2014 are expected to be approximately 10 to 14 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
This reflects continued investments in our business given the growth potential we see ahead.
As a remainder Q4 is typically our seasonally strongest quarter with Q1 typically being our seasonally slowest.
With that in mind as we look specifically into Q1 2014 we do expect to see slightly more pronounced seasonality than we experienced in Q1 2013.
While we’re not prepared to specific guidance for Q1 at this time for modeling purposes on as reported basis we are assuming approximately 1 percentage point greater sequential declines in both total and license revenue in Q1 2014 over Q4 2013 as compared with the sequential declines for Q1 2013 over Q4 2012.
Given these revenue trends and the investments we continue to make we also expect to see non-GAAP operating margins for Q1 ’14 in the range of about 32% to 33%.
GAAP operating margins for Q1 are expected to be approximately 10 to 14 percentage points lower than non-GAAP operating margins.
I encourage you all to model accordingly and I will provide more specific guidance for 2014 in conjunction with our Q4 earnings call in January.
In summary we’re very pleased with Q3 our goal was to achieve significantly accelerated revenue growth and we did that in Q3 in addition we delivered strong cash flow and operating margin performance.
We continue to see significant opportunities ahead and are excited about the prospects for our customers partner shareholders and employees.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Paul.
Question-and-Answer Session  Can you talk a little bit about I mean everyone else around you have been missing numbers now this earning season if I look at your geographies that looks fine.
You know your geographic performance looks fine.
Can you tell me what’s different with you guys and maybe talk a little bit about the visibility of that the ELA contracts are given to you as part of that.
Thank you.
Thank you Raimo.
I will start with that and then ask Carl to chime in on the ELAs.
Overall just as we get started I just want to reemphasize again how proud we are of the balanced performance across the company products marketing and then balanced execution across all the geos.
And as I said in my formal remarks Raimo we see VMware as what’s uniquely positioned to help transition customers through this mobile cloud era of computing over enabling IT to liberate resources from today’s client server environments saving them money so they can invest in the future.
In particular coming off of VMworld we just saw extraordinary response to the overall software-defined data center vision and strategy and this is resonating powerfully with customers really increasing the strategic relationship that we are building with them is clearly seen by our ELA performance.
Carl?  Yes.
So specifically on ELAs once again we had another solid quarter in ELAs booking 33% of our total bookings in the quarter coming from ELAs.
And this is a trend that we continue to see happening as we go forward.
We are seeing a common pattern of our customers who have become highly virtualized want to move into a more strategic level of engagement with VMware in this case ELAs as they want to get access to more of the technology and solution to help them build a software defined data center in the future.
As we look forward to Q4 we expect to see seasonality strength in the ELA business and we wouldn’t be surprised if that gets upwards of 40% of our total bookings in the quarter.
And the year is playing out as we expected around the ELAs as we said we saw strength in the second half of the year from ELAs which would drive the increase in our bookings in revenue as compared to the first half of the year.
Thank you Raimo.
Next question please.
Thank you.
And Jonathan thanks for the detail on the guidance.
That’s really helpful.
But I guess my question is probably for Pat or Carl I mean you have a lot going on at VMware and you went through a lot of it on the call but vSphere your core virtualization market product is still the majority of your business today.
I realize it’s less so as time goes on but if you had to characterize where you were in the x86 compute capacity that still need to be virtualized.
Where might that be? I mean there is a lot of talk that 70% to 75% of x86 workloads have been virtualized.
And I think you come up with the numbers similar to that but you don’t get paid based on the number of workloads that gets virtualized you get paid based on the number of CPUs that gets virtualized or the number of – the amount of compute capacity.
And I guess even roughly where that might be relative to that 70% to 75%?  Yes thanks John.
And the important thing to view is is that this entire view of our position into the enterprise customers as they continue to virtualize is really a platform for us to broaden the overall position that we had with the software-defined data center technologies and it’s the springboard for management networking stores and the complete set of things that we are offering and we really see that as a lot of the strength that we are seeing in our customer our relationships.
With respect to the server virtualization specifically maybe Carl you can add a few more specific comments there.
Yes.
And specifically John in server virtualization I think you guys all understand the penetration rate that we had in the market and the percentage of workloads that are virtualized out there in data center today.
And as Pat indicated we see this as a strong foundation for us to build upon for the software-defined data center.
At the same time we see a rich opportunity going forward for the non-virtualized workloads because they are most mission-critical Tier 1 applications and we do know that as people look to virtualize the remaining workloads in their data center they are looking for more high availability disaster recovery business continuity solutions and they are also looking for different levels of how to manage and operate in this new world of the software-defined data center.
So widely adoption of the remaining workloads to a virtualized state maybe slower than that first 60% or 70% we have picked up over the last decade.
We actually see a significant up-sell opportunity as we grab to those mission-critical workloads in the future.
And if I might just one quick comment is it fair Carl to assume that the remaining workloads have to be…  John I am sure we can take your additional question later.
We are just trying to be fair to everybody.
My apologies.
Next question please.
Understood.
Hi.
Thank you and congratulations on achieving the improbable of reacceleration which many people doubted.
My question was on the ELA side if you look at the 2014 the shape of 2014 relatively to 2011 renewals are we also setup for another back unloaded year such as so that we went through and also if you could comment about new ELAs it looks like the numbers keep getting bigger bigger commenting on new ELAs and how you expect that to pan out next year would be great.
Thank you.
Well let’s talk about the strengths of the ELAs overall and I’ll start and we can talk about the renewal cycle in particular.
So as you know we have seen a strong opportunity coming into 2013 for the reasons I think we’re all aware of which is the renewal cycle for ELAs in particular from 2010 to 2013 giving us in particular I think a strong opportunity going into the back-half of 2013 and we have certainly seen that we saw that to an extent in Q2 we’re expecting to see it also going into Q4.
I think the important point though as we look at 2014 is we continue to track renewal opportunities the overall dollar value for renewals goes up just not at the same rate as it did from 2012 going into 2013.
So it's going to be a driver of growth just not be [indiscernible] growth drivers we think about the opportunity ahead.
I think you know the overall opportunity about ELAs as Carl talked about continues to be very strong and showing the strategic relationship we’re engaging with the customers.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please.
For Carl just on the end-user computing business you mentioned bookings down what do you see these change in that business for you that to get more momentum it seems like you’re gaining traction on the product side but what needs to kind of kick for this market is really becoming straining from your perspective.
So first of all as you know the first half of the year was quite successful for end-user competing business in both Q1 and Q2 we grew the business in our mid-teens and I would like to point out in Q3 both our EMEA and APAC regions were up you know double digits again year-over-year.
Well what we did not see in Q3 which we traditionally see is any large if you will VDI sales in the Americas and with Americas being the largest percentage of our overall bookings from a region perspective if we go and execute on EUC business in that respective region it could have a slight impact for the quarter and that’s what we saw.
At the same time I think it's important to know as we look at our Q4 both U.S.
and worldwide pipeline it looks extremely strong and we expect to bounce back here in Q4 with another solid quarter in end-user computing and lastly as I said in my prepared remarks we continue to invest in our end-user computing business both on the go to market side as well as on the product side and as we continue to invest we still believe we are taking market share from the competition and as long as we’re doing that those investments will not stop.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Pat and allow him to give some more color on end-user computing as a whole and why it's so strategic to us going forward.
Pat?  You know I just want to emphasize that we do see this as one of the three strategic legs of our overall strategy EUC and the overall businesses strategically important to us now and into the future and in the Q3 we demonstrated that really by bringing on a powerful new leader and Sanjay Poonen to drive that business for us as well as our Desktone acquisitions.
So we’re investing and really believe that we’re setting out for this being one of the growth drivers of VMware into the future.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please.
Question with respect to your counter ’14 total revenue guidance of about 15% year-over-year.
We forecasted the continued strength on ELA renewals is definitely going to continue throughout 2014 I think the new ELA signs will be strong as well.
Can you talk a little bit about what that 15% overall revenue growth is predicated on with respect to transactional business because obviously that’s being moving in the wrong direction as off late.
Thanks guys.
So I’m not going to breakout specifically what we’re assuming around transaction business in ELAs I think the overall growth opportunity we continue to see being out there are 15% is predicated on continued strength around vCloud Suite continued strength and penetration around end user computing and the penetration just broadly of what we are seeing in the software-defined data center opportunities.
In particular the growth drivers around management and automation we expect those to continue well into 2014.
There is no question ELAs and the strategic impact those have on us and our relationships with our customers will be – we expect them to be a bigger growth driver but I look at the overall business and those core drivers especially when I think about the balanced penetration we are seeing across all of our geographies as well.
Those are the main things I am tracking Brian as I think about the 15% for next year.
Thank you.
Thank you Brian.
Next question please.
Hi thanks and congrats guys on a great quarter.
Just want to focus in on the management tools you commented on both vCloud Suite and vSOM I am wondering if you could just compare and contrast it too in terms of the adoption rates you are seeing especially versus your expectations but as you think about the second half and sort of next year how should we think about the sort of two combined and then maybe one versus the other? Thanks.
Yes.
So Phil this is Carl.
I will take that.
So first of all as I indicated in my prepared remarks the management in cloud management business is still one of our fastest growing product areas in the company.
And we continue to see that in Q3.
And we expect to see that here in Q4.
One of the ways we can see that pretty easily is just look at the strength that we are seeing in our vSOM business which is vSphere with Operations Management as well as our vCloud Suite which a large percentage of the vCloud Suite is comprised of our cloud management products.
So we see customers continuing to invest in our cloud management solution.
The last thing I would say is as we spend time with our customers and may become more highly virtualized we can continue to hear feedback that they would absolutely want to see a solution from the company who is leading their virtualization efforts in their data center when it comes to cloud management and we think that’s why we are seeing the growth we see today overall in cloud management.
And then lastly as Pat and I both indicated in our prepared remarks we see this as a rich opportunity for us going forward.
And just last week in Barcelona we announced the broadest upgrade as well as new products around our cloud management pipeline that we have ever done in the history of the company and it was received quite well.
And based on that we will continue to invest in a go-to-market strategy that will allow us to grow our current market position in cloud management because we see the richness of the opportunity ahead of us.
Thanks Carl.
Next question please.
Hi great.
Thank you for the question and thanks again for the detailed guidance for Q1 as well Jonathan.
My question is you guys have mentioned the success of the suites and the add-on products and you commented that just helping to drive ASPs higher.
I am wondering if you could help share with us what the typical up-sell is that you are seeing as customers move one from standalone vSphere to vCloud and also as we see the transactional customers adopting vSOM so put both of those kind of what’s the typical uplift you are seeing in pricing now that you guys have a few quarters under your belt? Thank you.
Yes hi Heather.
This is Carl.
I will take the first part of that question.
Once again we saw a 3x increase in ASP when we sell the vCloud Suite into the market.
And so our strategy of selling a suite in a solution purposely built to the software-defined data center is paying off and is clearly having impact on our ASPs overall.
And in the given quarter in Q3 our ASPs were up both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter driven by the success of vCloud Suite and now vSOM in its second full quarter in the market.
Jonathan anything to add?  The only thing Heather I would just add to that and it’s one of the things we have been thinking about as we think about ASPs in general our product portfolio is becoming pretty broad at this stage.
And as you know our strategy is to suitify and to bundle into pretty sophisticated packages what we are driving today and so ASPs at an average level.
And I again just want to reiterate Carl’s comment that we are up year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter when you look at our overall ASPs but ASP commentary frankly is becoming a little less relevant for us especially as we bundle and provide more and more of our offerings in suites overall.
But again we were pleased with the performance but don’t hand everything you’re doing based on just ASPs.
Thank you Heather.
Next question please.
I have a question maybe for Carl.
As you do more of these suites for vCloud and as you think about the bundle you know you had a strong year in ELAs.
I’m wondering if that transactional business because less of an important metric because more of your customers are consuming incrementally under ELA.
I was just wondering if you could comment on that and how we should think about that transactional business going forward given some of these trends.
Thanks.
So first of all I think it's important that we look at the overall growth of the business and in this case growth our bookings you know 19% on a year-over-year basis I think it's a solid indication that our strategy is paying off and looking at it through just ELAs versus the transactional nature of our business is probably not the best way to look at it because as I said earlier our customers are more and more willing and wanting to engage in a ELA discussion with us because they can get access to more of the components they need to deliver the software defined data center.
Specific on the transactional business it is still very important it's actually very strategic because it's sees the market which ultimately allows us to upsell to an ELA over time and we think about the transactional business we really think about it in two different ways.
Number one with this our unit growth book like and number two what is the channel skill set to be able to sell the vCloud suite and vSOMS and we think our channel is actually becoming quite skilled they are selling vSOM and vCloud suite which is you know evidenced by us stating for Q3 both of those platforms beat our internal expectation and when we look at our units which is another indication that it's the transactional business.
We were pleased to say that our units were up double digit year-over-year.
So again I don't think it's one or the other but when you take them in a combined fashion both ELAs and the transactional business the way to measure our success going forward really is the overall growth of the business and in this case we think a 19% growth in bookings was a really solid quarter.
Thank you Ross.
Next question please.
I was wondering if you could address the pattern that you have increasing your specialized sales force as you look at over the next year so what proportion do we think will be specialized in? What do you see is the main benefits of that?  Sure so let me start and then I’m going to ask Pat to comment as well.
So today we have three years at specialized sales force number one our EUC business number two our network virtualization business associated with NSX number three our vCloud hybrid service business where we have a specialized sales force who are skilled at selling more of a service orientation as opposed to a product or license sale and lastly you know as we announced in Q2 we have decided to put a specialized sales force in place around management and automation because we see our cloud management business growing as I said earlier is one of our fastest growing businesses.
And we look at these specialized sales force as an augmentation to the core sales force that VMware has and we bring in people with domain specific knowledge of each of these technologies and then in a lot of cases we focus on technical talent because we think it's the technical folks in these sales organization my guess ease in professional services who brings incremental value to our core sales force.
So that’s our philosophy and the mentality and it's working out well in 2013 and we expect a lot of those investments this year to pay off for us in 2014.
Pat any color?  Yeah as we think about these new areas that w going into we see it as just absolutely critical that we get unique focus in those areas so as we’re looking at a hybrid service as we’re looking at EUC as we’re looking at networking we’re absolutely focused on having people who are both experts in that domain and uniquely focused on accomplishing our strategic objectives there while simultaneously making sure that we enable our core sales motion as Carl has said to be able to carry that load as part of our core suites overtime and we feel like that combination of making both of those work will become fundamental strategic advantage allowing you to see that acceleration in these new areas in ’14.
’15 and beyond.
Thank you Rick.
Next question please.
Hi.
Another ELA question I am wondering if over time you need to evolve to a program where you give customers sort of more flexibility and annual payments as opposed to it and right now most of your deals are three-year upfront and I understand you do have an annual plan but it is quite a capital expense upfront and just wondering how you are thinking about that on a longer term basis as far as driving ELAs even higher than where they are today?  So Walter thanks for the question.
At this point while we do a certain number of one-year term deals.
Typically what we are seeing is ELAs continuing to attract a lot of value from a customer perspective.
And we have been very I think successful in selling on an average three-year transactions.
Customers have been paying upfront for those.
And it’s one of the significant drivers of cash collection.
So speaking as the CFO I have to say from my perspective I like that model and will obviously manage our customer demand appropriately but frankly that model I think is something we want to continue as much as possible.
Thank you Walter.
Next question please.
Yes thanks and congratulations.
Pat following up on your earlier comments can you update us on your strategy with Desktone? Are you planning to offer these desktops as a service directly to customers or will you supply technology to partners and have them hosted? And how does this technology help out with the ROI argument for virtual desktops? Thanks.
Yes great question.
And Desktone had a very successful business model working with the range of service providers.
And we reinforce that relationship at our VMworld in Barcelona and how important that --was.
And we expect that those are going to continue if not accelerate going into the future.
We do expect that.
So we will augment that with a vCHS our hybrid cloud host of service over time but priority one is to continue to expand the business model that Desktone has been successful with to-date.
Also with respect to the financial model we do think it is critical to the adoption of VDI to continue to work on the financial model and many customers find that they are upside down today due to different aspects of the cost model and thus by improvements in things like our storage cost area things like flash-based storage making a big step there for hosted and I mean for on-premise but also vCHS we expect that the Desktone type service from a cloud operation will have very compelling TCO model for customers as well.
Carl anything to add?  Yes.
One last thing is to your earlier point we are all working hard as an industry to reduce the cost of VDI because historically it’s been a little bit capital intensive and hard to justify desktop and VDI virtualization.
And as we move to this new cloud model based on our Desktone acquisition it moves to an operating expense as opposed to the capital expense which many of our customers are in favor of as well as they look to get VDI services to a cloud provider as opposed to a capital intensive acquisition for their own data center.
Thank you Abhey.
Next question please.
Yes thank you very much.
So you mentioned that your federal business ex the U.S.
Army was flat and EMEA was up I think at double-digits but some of your peers I believe were seeing more challenges in the region.
So if you can talk a little bit about your outlook for federal and EMEA in Q4 and whether any of these were factors in the expected larger decline sequentially in the first quarter of 2014? Thanks.
So let me start in reverse order if that’s okay Shebly.
So first of all regarding Europe in Q3 we were very pleased with our performance in the region despite the tough economic headwinds I think we are all facing across Europe.
And in nearly every major country in Europe we actually grew the business on a year-over-year basis and I would like to call out specifically in Germany France and Russia we had very solid quarter.
So our performance in the region we thought was just outstanding considering the challenges the region is facing and we continue to execute despite some of those economic environments we are all faced with across Europe.
And we have taken into consideration that you know that as we looked at both our Q4 guidance as well as with Jonathan spoke about for Q1 in a full year of FY ’14 as it relates to Federal again I think we’re all aware of some of the challenges we have been facing across the IT industry as a whole for all of that FY ’13 in Federal and for us to come out and deliver the quarter we did really as a testament to how well our teams executed in Q3.
We did see a small budget flush and I think because of the strong ROI and the value we bring to our customers like the Army deal they were willing to spend money with VMware to help them save money in the future.
The deal itself the largest deal we talked about in my prepared remarks was actually a combination of a number of smaller ELAs that we have tracking so the large ELA was something we had visibility into for multiple quarters.
And it was one of the reasons we had success overall in Q3.
Now when we look at Q4 we have factored in our federal business in Q4 which as you could imagine is typically seasonally down from Q3 to Q4 and right now we’re not planning for any growth on a year-over-year basis when we look at our guidance for Q4 from our federal business and with that as a backdrop I don’t think I can really comment on the outlook of Q1 or FY ’14 on the federal business.
We’re just focusing on Q4 visibility that we have here today.
Thank you Shebly.
Next question please.
Sounds like adoption of NSX has been strong.
I’m wondering if you can give us any feedback from early adopters such as the ROI or perhaps maybe the impact to legacy networking vendors.
Thanks.
Sure let me start from that one.
Overall the response coming off of VMworld to NSX overall has been extraordinary.
In fact we would say that’s in many respects it was hit of the show and VMworld the enthusiasm around NSX was really spectacular and I think this emphasizes overall both bundled as part of the VMware staff as well as Multi-Hypervisor multi-infrastructure it really is a software defined data center technology that provides customers choice where we saw a huge resonance from our customers about that.
We had over 30 partner commit to supporting of the platform as well which shows very much the industry embrace of the technology.
As we said before we do see this excitement around network virtualization.
It will have an impact on how networking is built and architected overtime but given the strong embrace that we saw from the partner community yes we truly are thrilled by the opportunity that this presents to not just VMware but overall the industry’s embrace of this new technology area.
Can I just add one another thing it's very important as I talked about the financial analyst day that we appreciate from a growth driver revenue driver perspective where we’re looking at this has being a driver through to starting in a big way bigger way in 2015 and beyond.
So we’re seeing very very strong interest from many of our customers as Pat has talked about what is important to look at growth driver you know period of time for this to be a growth driver in 2015 and some of specific big customers that we had VMworld Citigroup eBay GE are our main brands who are standing and saying this is an exciting new technology.
So overall we’re just thrilled.
Thank you Matt.
I think the next question is need to be our last question.
So the last question please.
As you guys think about the shift to the management to the automation tools the vCloud what you see current market says in terms of current penetration rates are we in the first second or kind of third innings of that stage?  Overall if you think about the industry for cloud management it really is changing the entire way that IT is built and operated today.
We see this as still being very very early and the overall penetration of cloud management tools as replacing the overall way that management was done in the past something we highlighted extensively at VMworld.
It's old versus new model for cloud management.
So in that context we say it's our first inning maybe second but certainly not more than that as there is extraordinary amounts of installed management tools that are yet to be replaced modernized and extraordinary IT efficiencies resulting from this world of automated provisioning big data and telemetry and the opportunity to bring our financial management against it.
Thank you.
Thank you Shaul.
Before we conclude Pat has some final comments.
Yes thank you all.
In closing I am very proud of our team’s performance in Q3.
We delivered breakthrough innovation attractive world class talent and continue to build momentum as we help our customers transform to the mobile cloud era of computing.
We appreciate your time and thank you for joining us today.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator instructions.] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Paul Ziots Senior Director Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Patrick Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding revenues in each period attributable to the products and services attributed to Pivotal Software and the products and services associated with divestitures consummated by VMware in 2013.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today’s call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware’s performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization capitalization of software acquisition-related items and realignment related net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding Pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our first quarter 2014 quiet period begins at the close of business March 14 2014.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2012.
With that I’ll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Last week we announced preliminary results for Q4 2013 in conjunction with our announcement of our intent to acquire AirWatch.
Q4 was a very strong finish to a great 2013 for VMware and I’m extremely pleased with our team’s performance this year.
Our Q4 total revenue was $1.5 billion up 20% year over year excluding Pivotal and divestitures.
VMware’s total revenue for the fiscal year 2013 was $5.2 billion up 17% excluding Pivotal and divestitures.
Over the course of 2013 we did exactly what we said we would do in every aspect of the business including financial performance attracting and retaining top talent and most importantly bringing breakthrough innovation to market that provides strategic business advantages for our customers.
With our strong performance in Q4 and in 2013 as a whole we have accelerated VMware’s growth and positioned the company well for a strong 2014.
We now have significant customer momentum across all three of our strategic priorities as we continue our focus on leading the industry with the software defined data center hybrid cloud and end user computing.
VMware continues to build momentum globally because we are uniquely positioned to help our customers transform to the mobile cloud era of computing.
With our portfolio of solutions that extend from the desktop to the data center to the cloud we are enabling IT teams to liberate resources from their client server environments while building the mobile cloud infrastructure that will power their businesses into the future.
Our strong performance in Q4 and in 2013 is clear validation that our customers have confidence in our ability to help them address the IT requirements of both today and tomorrow.
We are laser focused at VMware on three strategic priorities and we continue to execute well.
I’d like to highlight some areas where we made significant progress in 2013 to accelerate VMware’s growth and deliver against our long term strategy.
For the software defined data center the rate of customer adoption is accelerating and it is clear that the industry is strongly embracing our SDDC strategy.
Carl will provide more detail in a moment on the value that SDDC is delivering for specific customers around the world.
In August we officially launched NSX our network virtualization platform and global brands like McKesson Starbucks Medtronic Best Buy and China Telecom have spoken with clarity and conviction about how they’re using the NSX platform to make their networks more agile and efficient.
A critical component of SDDC is IT management and throughout 2013 we grew rapidly gained share and added new cloud management capabilities to our portfolio empowering IT teams to move at a higher velocity to support top priority business objectives.
One of the most exciting milestones in 2013 was our launch of vCloud Hybrid Service in May followed by general availability in the U.S.
in September and beta availability in the U.K.
in December.
We’ve recently completed the buildout of vCloud Hybrid Service in four U.S.
data centers and one U.K.
site and we also secured our first franchise partner in Savvis.
Most importantly the early response from our customers has been overwhelmingly positive.
There is growing consensus that the hybrid cloud will be the delivery platform for the future of IT.
No other player in the market is better positioned than VMware to deliver on the promise of the hybrid cloud.
Our end user computing group also put a bold stake in the ground.
Just last week we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to acquire AirWatch the leading provider of enterprise global management and security solutions.
With this acquisition VMware is adding a foundational element to our end user computing portfolio.
With the addition of AirWatch we will be positioned to accelerate VMware’s long term growth in a significant way by delivering a complete and proven enterprise class solution for empowering the mobile workforce.
Over the course of 2013 we made several significant moves to accelerate our end user computing group.
We reinvigorated our EUC leadership team and continued to gain share in desktop virtualization.
In October we announced our acquisition of Desktone making VMware a clear leader in desktop as a service.
The market response has been strong with a rapidly growing partner community including tier one service providers and a strong pipeline of customers modernizing and moving their desktop infrastructure to the cloud.
These are just a few highlights of the many that demonstrate the momentum behind all three legs of our strategy.
I couldn’t be more proud of my leadership team and the entire company.
We continue to hire the best and brightest in the industry and will continue to make aggressive moves in 2014 because we see the opportunity here and now.
Our industry has entered a dramatic new phase.
Customers need to reduce costs in their existing IT environments while simultaneously building out the mobile cloud infrastructure that will power their businesses in the future.
VMware is one of the few companies that can simultaneously help them address these two challenges.
Without a doubt the coming years will be highly disruptive for many in our industry.
At VMware we are uniquely positioned to transform IT once again.
In closing I’d like to thank our customers partners and employees for their passion and engagement in Q4 as we carry our momentum into 2014.
I’ll now turn it over to Carl.
Thank you Pat.
I’m very proud of our performance in Q4 and 2013.
We delivered consistently according to our guidance throughout each quarter and the full year.
Q4 went as planned.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures licensed bookings grew in the very high single digits and total bookings grew in the midteens year over year.
This is consistent with the guidance commentary that Jonathan provided on the Q3 call.
Consistent with previous quarters I’ll provide some color on performance across the regions with growth rates excluding pivotal and divestitures.
The Americas region had an especially strong bookings growth of 20% year over year in Q4 fueled by a continued robust uptake of ELAs.
Total bookings for Q4 in EMEA grew in the low double-digits year over year which we believe reflects continued strong performance versus our peers in a mixed environment.
The U.K.
had a very strong quarter as we began to see improvement in the banking and finance vertical.
Adjusting for the effects of currency Asia Pacific bookings grew in the high teens year over year in Q4.
It’s worth noting that total bookings in China were up over 20% year over year in Q4 and up over 20% for each of the last two fiscal years.
One area I would like to highlight is our strong performance in the U.S.
federal market throughout 2013.
For the full year we grew total bookings over 25% in what was a tougher vertical for many this year.
In summary we’re growing across all geos in both mature and emerging markets.
In Q4 ELAs continued to be a way for us to extend our strategic relationship with customers.
ELAs increase our ability to sell more products and a wider range of products.
For example in Q4 we saw customers begin expanding the content of ELAs to include both NSX and vCloud Hybrid Service in addition to vCloud Suites Management Automation and EUC products.
We had five record highs in Q4 pertaining to ELAs and renewals.
First as we predicted we had a record quarter for ELAs representing 40% of total bookings.
Secondly we closed 10 ELAs greater than $10 million.
Third Q4 tied for our highest ever in-quarter renewal rate for ELAs.
Our fourth record was our record high in-quarter renewal rate for support.
And finally the average term for support tied an all-time high and remains well above 24 months.
In addition 2013 was a year of great momentum for vCloud Suite and vSphere with Operations Management as we exceeded our plan for both products.
In Q4 management and automation was once again our fastest-growing product group.
We had our largest-ever cloud management and automation product launch which contributed to management license bookings growth of over 40% for the full year 2013.
Even with the success of our management and automation products thus far we believe our customer base is only 10% penetrated reflecting ample runway for growth.
In addition for 2013 we more than doubled the number of partners who make it a specific business to sell management and automation from VMware.
We continue to believe that the path to the software defined data center goes through management and automation and this will continue to be a key driver of our growth in 2014 and beyond.
Turning to our end user computing group as we expected licensed bookings returned to strong growth.
Worldwide Q4 licensed bookings grew nearly 30% year over year in Q4 and grew greater than 40% year over year in the Americas geography alone.
For the full year 2013 versus 2012 EUC license bookings grew in the mid-teens which we believe clearly reflects that we are gaining share.
Our pending acquisition of AirWatch brings a number one asset in the enterprise mobile management and security space into VMware and further increases the full range of data center to device functionality we can offer to our customers.
In 2013 VMware also took big steps to present a vision for the future of the data center and the transformation of the network.
Our network virtualization platform VMware NSX became generally available in October and we expect NSX will do for networking what vSphere and server virtualization did for compute.
The majority of our NSX pilots have been turning in to sales.
As an example in Q4 the first quarter of availability for NSX we closed deals with three of the top five global investment banks and couldn’t be more pleased with this ringing endorsement of our network virtualization architecture.
As Pat mentioned earlier NSX was also purchased by some of the most respected global enterprise and telecommunications firms such as McKesson Starbucks Medtronic Best Buy and China Telecom.
The deals we’ve closed in the fourth quarter signal that innovative companies are making the architectural decisions that place network virtualization and the software defined data center at the heart of their data center strategies and we are winning the architectural battle.
Since general availability in September customer and partner acceptance of our hybrid cloud position has been nothing short of remarkable.
During Q4 we added hundreds of customers to our VCHS business and we couldn’t be more excited with the level of participation in the U.S.
We also announced VCHS market entrance into the U.K.
where we saw strong customer demand for our beta in December and anticipate general availability in February.
In addition we are seeing significant interest from service providers around the world who want to partner with us on our hybrid cloud and we expect to have important announcements to make during Q1 and throughout 2014 in this regard.
In Q4 we continued to see significant growth in our hybrid cloud which once again grew over 100% year over year and now operates in more than 95 countries around the world.
In summary we executed well against our plan for both Q4 and 2013.
We’re pleased with our performance but even more importantly we’re energized by the enthusiasm coming out of our customer interactions.
As we look into 2014 we have the strongest portfolio of products services and solutions for the mobile cloud era that we’ve ever seen.
Momentum is with us and we’re looking forward to the year ahead and beyond.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thank you Carl.
We are very pleased with our Q4 and 2013 results meeting or exceeding our expectations for the quarter and the year.
Before I get into more details around Q4 on guidance I want to summarize how we performed in 2014.
12 months ago we provided guidance for the full year.
Each and every quarter we did what we said we were going to do according to the plan we laid out.
I couldn’t be more proud of how the VMware team executed in 2013.
Our goal was acceleration of both license and total revenue growth as the year progressed and we achieved that goal.
For example excluding Pivotal and divestitures license growth accelerated from 1% year over year in Q1 to 18% year over year in Q4.
At the same time we have increased the diversification of our business’ non-standalone vSphere license bookings and now greater than 45% of total license bookings compared to greater than 30% in Q4 2012.
In addition non-GAAP operating margin expanded by approximately 160 basis points from 32.4% in 2012 to 34% in 2013 reflecting strong performance of our portfolio while investing aggressively for future growth.
As an example we increased our investments in sales coverage and product development with total headcount up as expected by 500 people in 2013.
We ended the year with approximately 14 300 employees right on target.
And finally cash flow from operations was up 34% in 2013 reflecting the continued strength of VMware’s business model.
In summary we did what we said we were going to do in 2013 and I’m very proud of these results.
Given our positive preannouncement of results last week I’ll now focus on key additional highlights that will be helpful in your understanding of Q4 performance.
As Paul mentioned I’d encourage you to refer to the slides and financial tables accompanying this earnings call for further details on our results.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q4 was up 25% year over year to $1.01 on approximately 434 million shares.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $6.2 billion up $337 million sequentially.
Our operating cash flows of $688 million in Q4 were up 40% year over year.
We spent $98 million on capex and consequently free cash flow was $590 million up 44%year over year.
Our cash flows all year reflected our robust operating performance with strong collections activities while continuing to invest in our business.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.4 million shares of our stock for a total of $116 million at an average price of around $82 a share.
For the full year we repurchased approximately 6.6 million shares for a total cash out rate of just over $500 million and an average price of approximately $77 per share.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $4.09 billion up 18% from Q4 2012 and of which $1.53 billion is long term up 21% year over year.
As expected approximately 88% of our unearned revenues will be recognized ratably over future quarters.
The unearned revenue mix is in line with prior periods and is primarily a reflection of our strong maintenance business.
Now I’ll briefly summarize and augment the guidance we provided last week.
As I mentioned we expect revenue for 2014 to be between $5.94 billion and $6.1 billion or up 14% to 17% year over year.
This revenue and growth range includes our expectations of approximately $75 million from AirWatch.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures and including AirWatch our total growth rate for 2014 is expected to be up 16% to 18.5% versus 2013.
License revenues for the full year are expected to be $2.55 billion and $2.63 billion or up 12% to 16% year over year.
This revenue and growth range includes our expectations of approximately $50 million of license revenues for AirWatch.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures and including AirWatch our license growth rate for 2014 is expected to be up 13% to 17% versus 2013.
For Q1 2014 we expect total revenue to be between $1.33 billion and $1.37 billion or up 12% to 15% year over year.
This revenue and growth range includes our expectations of approximately $0 to $10 million from AirWatch.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures and including AirWatch our total growth rate for Q1 is expected to be up 16% to 19% versus Q1 2013.
License revenues for Q1 are expected to be between $545 million to $555 million or up 12% to 14% year over year.
This revenue and growth range includes our expectations of a few million dollars of license revenue for AirWatch.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures and including AirWatch our license growth rate for Q1 is expected to be up 14.5% to 17% versus Q1 2013.
Finally and to assist you with our models I’ll make a comment regarding non-GAAP operating margin seasonality in 2014.
As we factor in the full diluted effect of AirWatch from Q2 onwards we expect Q2 non-GAAP operating margin to be lower than Q1 by 150 basis points to 200 basis points.
We then expect non-GAAP operating margin to increase in the second half of 2014 resulting in approximately 31% for the full year of 2014.
Remaining guidance for Q1 and the whole of 2014 and a reiteration of our 2015 and 2016 guidance provided on our AirWatch conference call last week is included in the slide deck posted on our investor relations website.
In summary we did what we said we were going to do throughout 2013.
We accelerated revenue growth grew operating margin and generated robust cash flow from operations.
We continue to see significant opportunity ahead and are excited about the prospects for our customers partners shareholders and employees.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I’ll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let’s get started.
[Operator instructions.] Your first question comes from Brent Thill with UBS.
Carl you mentioned NSX starting to have an impact on ELAs.
Just curious if you could give us a sense of what type of impact you’re starting to feel.
And maybe more for Jonathan your view in terms of a full year of the NSX contribution.
I know a lot of investors have a lot of questions around this.
Any color you can add would be helpful.
I’ll just get us started here by just first welcoming everybody to the Q&amp;A session but overall emphasizing just how happy we are with overall Q4 performance and just how strong a finish it was to the year and just how we’re building momentum across all of the areas of the company.
And one of those of course was NSX that you’re asking about and Carl maybe you can give a few more comments on it.
But just overall we really feel like as Carl said in his formal remarks the architectural winds are shifting in our favor as we see the adoption of some of these brand names three of the five largest banks.
I mean this is really a powerful transition that’s underway.
Carl a few more details? To answer your question specifically you asked about NSX and ELAs and NSX just came to market as you know and was released in Q4.
And we saw a nice uptake of NSX becoming part of our ELAs.
In fact in a number of ELAs NSX was actually driving the ELA itself as people really view VMware rounding out all three pillars of the software defined data center from compute to now networking and ultimately storage.
So NSX is a driver of ELAs and again we’re pleased with the uptake of NSX and ELAs within the quarter.
So strong performance overall from NSX and as Pat said people truly do see this as an architectural shift in how networking will be deployed in the future and NSX as being part of their decision on how they’ll do that.
And to specifically address your question we still expect 2015 to be the year where we expect to do more meaningful revenue growth contribution in terms of overall contribution to our performance.
We’re really pleased as both Carl and Pat have pointed out with the as-expected progress with the architectural wins.
And those are the key things to watch right now key architectural wins key logos key names and we performed as we expected and probably a little bit better actually which is great.
The next question is from Walter Pritchard with Citigroup.
Jonathan I’m wondering if you could walk us through just on the license deferred revenue.
Obviously that account has moved around a lot historically.
It looks like even if I adjust for Pivotal it was up about half on a sequential basis of what it was a year ago in the fourth quarter.
And I’m wondering if you could talk through that and also what sorts of things impact that account as we look at it.
I think the key thing to know is if I step back and look at overall bookings numbers which obviously feed into overall deferred I just want to point out that the overall bookings did grow very solidly in that midteens growth rate which is fairly consistent with our guidance going into 2014.
License does reflect the first full quarter of the vCloud Suite in 2012 in Q4.
And again as Carl pointed out the strong performance we saw in ELAs and particularly in ELA renewals in Q4 with over 40% of our bookings being ELAs in Q4 plus a significant in-quarter renewal rate of ELAs.
Don’t forget there’s a higher maintenance mix in our ELAs when they first come through from a renewal especially if we’re doing second or third time renewals.
And nine of our top 10 ELAs were renewals this quarter.
So those top 10 ELAs we talked about were renewals.
That’s good.
It shows the overall strength of our relationship with our customers.
It is a slightly higher weighting towards maintenance overall which is why I mentioned the overall bookings number.
But I couldn’t be more pleased with how the overall bookings and license performed in Q4.
The next question is from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
I guess the first one is related to [bigger] seasonality on license in Q1.
Jonathan knowing that you came in at the high end of your range I think there’s some questions just due to seasonality being a little bit more than what you thought when you guided to it sequentially back on the Q3 call.
And then the second question is really for Pat or Carl.
You talked about I believe management being 10% penetrated as I believe the quote you gave.
What percentage of your install base do you think that product set applies to? Because you asked that question just a couple of days ago I am going to repeat the answer I gave at the time.
The main reason for Q1 in particular appearing like it’s seasonally slightly deeper is because we beat in Q4.
We had a stronger performance in the overall year than we expected just three months ago which is really gratifying to see and our guidance for Q1 and the full year is entirely consistent with what we anticipated seeing there.
So it’s really a question of a stronger compare in the Q4 period reflecting the strong Q4 2013 results.
And with respect to management we have this mantra of no [unintelligible] here.
Because we really believe that the management tools apply to essentially 100% of the customers and the point of the 10% is obviously up from the 5% that we cited six months ago.
We’re clearly making progress.
But the runway is the rest of the 90% and that’s what we’re excited about that we have a long way to go.
And it’s not even one management tool but as we broaden our management suite we’re selling more of the management tools provisioning operations management financial management application management.
We have a long long way to go in this category.
The next question is from Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch.
It looks like you delivered what you told us in the beginning of the year.
That’s great.
On the license deferral Jonathan can you tell us if we should stop expecting this dynamic to continue? I can clearly see that you had a tough comp to your [unintelligible] introduction Q4 2012.
Was it just that? Or is there some other change in the way you are billing your customers customers you’re perhaps booking but not billing? And if you could just add some clarity there recognizing that your overall bookings growth rate did accelerate.
Can you help us understand if we should not have those kinds of expectations about license billings the way your quarters have played out? I just wanted to echo your first comment.
We did what we said we would through the year.
And while there was skepticism on our ability to ramp our growth rate over the course of the year we delivered on that or exceeded it every quarter of the year.
And I just couldn’t be prouder of my team and the leadership here to be able to both predict that and then execute against it through the year.
So with that Jonathan if you could address the specific question? As I think about the coming up year the year ahead of us I think you should still expect to see license and growth in deferreds over the course of the year much like you’ve seen in the past.
There will clearly be an effect of an ELA cycle from renewals coming into 2014.
We saw an effect of that performance in Q4 higher ELA percentage from a renewal perspective higher ELAs overall.
In particular from a renewal perspective you see slightly lower mix of license.
But overall bookings and overall license growth should continue to contribute to deferred revenue.
So license billings should continue is what you’re saying? Because it’s more of a tough comp but you should be able to continue to defer more and more onto the balance sheet from licensing? I would look at the flow that we saw over the course of this year.
You’re clearly seeing some quarters where we had a little bit more but we added some less.
I’d look at the overall growth and I’d come back to our revenue guide for the entire year.
And clearly you don’t grow revenue without growing bookings.
So that’s the net I would step away with.
The only thing I’d add there is I think just looking at what our deferred is each and every quarter can be challenging because depending on the composition of an enterprise license agreement we do with the customer we may take more of the license revenue in a given quarter.
Or if it’s a ratable deal some of it gets pushed out and then gets on the balance sheet and becomes part of deferred.
And really the composition of the ELAs is really what drives a lot of what’s on the balance sheet versus what goes to deferred in any given quarter.
So I think we have to be a little bit careful as to how we look at deferred and back into what our external bookings are.
The next question is from John DiFucci with JP Morgan.
I have a question about end user computing.
You just had a huge quarter this quarter and that was after last quarter being flat.
I think Carl said you’re gaining share and we all know you’ve been investing quite a bit here and way before AirWatch.
Just curious is this more a result of that investment and execution on that investment working at this point? Or are there any secular changes that are suddenly happening in the market? If you recall in Q3 we said our bookings on our end user computing business were actually slightly down year over year.
And now they’ve bounced back and grown at 30% in Q4 on that year over year basis and up 40% in the Americas.
Just shows that we did have a strong pipeline coming out of Q3 as we had indicated and we expected to have a strong quarter here in Q4.
When you combine that with what we have done on the investment front to exactly your point we have invested in the go-to-market strategy significantly in 2013.
And a lot of those investments are starting to pay off and we’re starting to see the productivity ramp out of all of those investments.
And the last thing I would say is if you just look in Q4 with the acquisition of Desktone and the recent announcement of our acquisition of AirWatch we fundamentally believe no one has a stronger portfolio to service the end user computing market than VMware going forward.
The one other thing that we think is giving us more strength and momentum is the enthusiasm of the new leadership team.
And Sanjay plus the key executives that he’s added to the team combined with the sales investments that Carl mentioned earlier clearly are just producing a lot more momentum in this category and we think that’s sustainable.
And also the leadership team that gave us the confidence enough to move forward with the AirWatch acquisition.
The next question is from Brian Marshall with ISI Group.
Jonathan the operating margin guidance throughout the year was helpful.
I was wondering if you could help us with how you view revenue seasonality throughout calendar ’14 in addition to that.
I’m not actually going to comment specifically on the back half of the year at this point but perhaps just to help you out the way I think about Q2 and assuming the midpoint of our Q1 guide I would expect sequential growth of around 9-10% excluding AirWatch for license and just over 6% again excluding AirWatch for total.
So again just to give you a sense of how I think about Q2 sequential growth rates.
And we’ll clearly update you more as we exit Q1 in just 90 days here.
As a further reminder don’t forget we are expecting to close AirWatch in Q1 and I just want to point out clearly you noticed it but if others would just make sure they’re going to the slide deck we had accompanying this call.
We gave very specific guidance with respect to what do we expect for AirWatch from a revenue contribution perspective.
And just to clarify it’s the footnotes in slide 11 for anyone that wants to go directly to it.
The next question is from Ross MacMillan with Jefferies.
Jonathan coming into 2013 I think we all knew there was a fairly strong yearly renewal that came from roughly the 2010 period because of the three-year nature of those contracts.
Could you just comment on how you think the 2011 yearly renewals play out in 2014? And I guess are you still anticipating that ELAs as a percentage of total bookings will continue to increase? I think there’s probably three or four points I want to make on ELAs.
And Carl feel free to jump in obviously.
But first is as we’ve continued to experience in other words we continue to enjoy ELAs very very strategic for us indication of deeper relationships with customers generally three years in length or thereabouts 40% of our total bookings in Q4.
As Carl and I and Pat have commented we can see this getting towards the 50% level probably over the next 12 to 24 months.
The in-quarter renewal rate was one of the highest if not the highest we’ve seen with respect to renewals.
The renewal opportunity in dollar terms in 2014 is higher than the renewal opportunity we even had in 2013.
The dollar renewal volume is higher in 2014 than it was even in 2013.
The rate of increase over 2013 is a bit lower as a percentage but still the dollar value is very encouraging.
And then last but absolutely not least I just want to point out that the new ELA mix is actually greater than 50%.
So while renewals are a great way for us to have that ongoing recurring relationship with customers that new ELA opportunity continues to be very strong.
So hopefully that helps you think about 2014 the right way.
The next question is from Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse.
I want to talk about management and vSOM versus vCloud just in terms of what you saw this year adoption of those two.
I know one was launched before the other but as you’re thinking about 2014 which of those two do you have higher expectations for and why? Throughout the year we’ve been giving you updates on how well both vCloud Suite and vSOM has been performing and in Q4 we saw another strong quarter of adoption of both of those if you will suites.
vCloud Suite continues to be sold with ELAs.
Approximately 50% of our ELAs included vCloud Suite and about 70% of the dollars associated with vCloud Suites were in ELAs as well.
So strong adoption of ELAs associated with vCloud Suite.
So the notion of the software defined data center and getting all the components of it is resonating with our customers and they’re locking us into longer term agreements around those ELAs.
As it relates to the vSOM uptake we continue to see our channel become more skilled.
And I will use the reference that Pat did earlier at selling non-naked vSphere.
And they do continue to sell vSAN into the market at a very aggressive rate and the adoption has been really strong throughout both Q2 Q3 and Q4.
And we expect that to continue as we head into 2014.
The next question is from Matt Hedberg of RBC Capital Markets.
Clearly you guys are having success with NSX which is great to hear.
My question is in regard to vSAN which I believe is still in beta.
I’m wondering if you could give us an update on that product and potentially how disruptive that could be as well.
vSAN is in beta.
It has gotten tremendous response from customers.
And the place that it has just been so spectacular has been the v admin is able to execute managed storage as just part of a normal workflow.
And that’s just been that elegance and simplicity.
It’s been extremely well received by customers.
It will go GA this quarter so we are expecting an acceleration of that product given how well the beta has gone.
And as we’ve said we expect it to ramp over the course of the year and really start to materially contribute next year to revenue growth.
But we do expect that customer uptake for it and the focused use cases around VM-driven storage for low tier use cases test embed [VDI] and other things that we’ve seen from our customers has clearly resonated for that value proposition which we do expect to grow over the next couple of releases of that product.
The next question comes from Daniel Ives of FBR.
Could you just talk about Pivotal and your thoughts about how that’s ramping? EMC will probably cover this a bit more tomorrow on their call but from our perspective we’ve been very pleased with how Pivotal is ramping.
We have in Q4 announced two different types if you will go-to-market partnerships with Pivotal.
The first is we will take their platform as a service and deliver it behind the firewall as a VMware SKU.
So if someone wants Cloud Foundry behind the firewall in their own data center VMware can deliver that.
Secondly we have announced that the Pivotal platform will run on top of our vCloud Hybrid Service which allows us to offer a [pas] platform on top of our infrastructure as a service vCloud Hybrid Service.
So we’re very pleased with our partnership with Pivotal their growth.
And we’re excited to take them to market both behind the firewall and in the public cloud going forward.
The next question is from Michael Turits of Raymond James.
I was wondering if you’re able to give us any more granularity into AirWatch on more of a pro forma basis? $75 million contribution maybe how much was the writedown and what the bookings look like so we could get more sense of what the growth really is? You know at this point it’s probably premature for us to do that.
We did talk about 2012 being in excess of $100 million bookings run rate for AirWatch.
And I also shared just a few days ago that it’s clearly a high growth business.
Remember they’ve added over 10 000 customers in a relatively short space of time 1 600-plus employees.
So if you take that $100 million and stretch it back just a few years you can get a sense of the momentum and the growth rate that they’ve been enjoying.
Clearly going into 2014 we’re going to have just a partial year.
We are going to have a lagging indicator being revenue.
And I want to get through the close of the acquisition before we give you any more granularity as to how they’re going to perform especially given purchase accounting on the close of the deal as well.
So stay tuned on that.
The next question comes from Pat Walraven with JMP Securities.
Pat moving to the big picture here what key points would you make to investors who worry about competition from Amazon Web Services? As we think about the entire cloud services space for enterprise customers this is immature.
And customers there’s a lot of tire kicking a lot of experimentation and test and dev.
So overall anybody in the enterprise space this is still very early days.
With that what we’ve said is VCHS is very uniquely focused for enterprise use cases.
It’s a truly seamless hybrid cloud.
And that value proposition of a hybrid cloud that’s an extension of what they’re doing on premise with the 40 VMs that we have running on the VMware software stack today common management security networking and all of those attributes as we’ve described they’re just dramatically differentiated from AWS or anybody else in the marketplace.
So while generally we see this large pool of public cloud services our position is quite differentiated and that is resonating with customers.
And we do expect there will be some competition with AWS over time for different workloads and customers.
But today we’re largely pursuing different customers with different value propositions.
And as Carl mentioned in his comments we’re seeing extraordinary response from those customers.
I think Jonathan wants to just make a slight alteration to the prior comment.
Michael in my enthusiasm for the AirWatch business I just got slightly ahead of myself.
So it’s 2013 that we were estimating $100 million.
Still extremely strong progress greater than $100 million in 2013 with respect to AirWatch.
The next question comes from Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen &amp; Company.
Just a follow up for either Pat or Carl on VCHS.
And I know it’s early but you guys mentioned you did add hundreds of customers in Q4.
Can you give us a little color on the types of engagements that you’re having with customers so far and whether you’re seeing more interest so far in dedicated workloads or in virtual desktop? We are seeing interest from our customers on multiple dimensions.
Number one they’re interested in just running capacity on demand in a multi-tenant environment.
At the same time we are seeing customer demand for a dedicated private cloud instance on top of vCloud Hybrid Service.
So we actually are seeing both the operating models for the public cloud come through from our customers.
What I think we’re probably most interested in and excited about is the fact that we’re getting big brand name logos to adopt vCloud Hybrid Service as their public cloud offering and truly create the hybrid cloud that no one else has that allows them to very easily federate their workloads with the common underlying architecture from management to networking to compute to security.
And that’s what our customers are telling us they like most about that.
And I should also point out that that is without us having a lot of new services on top of the platform that we’ll bring to market this year including a platform as a service with Cloud Foundry including desktop as a service with Desktone.
We are just coming out of beta on DR as a service so if our customers want to back up in their VMs into our public cloud offering.
So we’re seeing a lot of excitement from our customers even before we get a lot of these rich services on top of vCloud Hybrid Service that will all come over the next couple of quarters.
And then the last thing I would say is we mentioned that we went into beta in London in the U.K.
with our vCloud Hybrid Service.
And very quickly after announcing our beta it filled up with some of the largest brands and logos in the U.K.
market which again showed strong demand for our hybrid service on a global basis.
And just two other comments to add to that.
One is that as we are gaining momentum on the vCloud Hybrid Service the partnership discussions are gaining momentum as well.
And as we said in our formal remarks we expect to have a number of service provider announcements this quarter and through 2014 as those relationships and that value proposition is so distinct that we’re seeing service providers really anxious to participate and extend or global footprint as a result.
And the last comment here is we really think about vCloud Hybrid Service our franchise partner relationships as well as VSPP as a holistic view of our hybrid cloud.
And that business grew over 100% year over year in Q4 and this is demonstrating the strength of the value proposition that VMware has for the public cloud and really reaching into the enterprise customers in a unique way.
The next question is from Shaul Eyal with Oppenheimer.
Question on the desktop on the VDI product.
I know it’s a small contributor of overall revenue but any color you can share with us on that would be greatly appreciated.
I’d mentioned this earlier if you recall in Q3 we said our bookings on EUC were just slightly down.
But we also indicated that we had a very strong and robust pipeline as we headed into Q4.
And it played out exactly as we expected.
We grew the business 30% year over year in Q4 really off the back of a strong performance in the Americas which grew the business 40% in Q4 alone.
And we are absolutely seeing customers continue to adopt VDI to help modernize their desktops.
And we do believe we are taking market share against the competition growing at 30% on a global basis growing at 40% in the Americas is actually faster than the market’s growing in general.
So we feel like we’re doing quite well and our investments that we made in 2013 on the go-to-market side are truly starting to pay off for us in Q4 in 2014 and beyond.
My update as well on that is the desktop service or the Desktone acquisition which beat our estimates in Q4 and really has a very substantial pipeline as we go into 2014.
So we feel like this is another area of unquestioned leadership for VMware and another opportunity for us to extend our strategic partnership with our channel as well as our service provider partners.
The next question is from Rajesh Ghai with Macquarie.
I just wanted to delve a little deeper into the comment around the 10% penetration of management automation.
Is that by customer or is that by the installed base of virtual machines? And how do you really calculate it given that you have such a wide spectrum of management automation products staring from vSOM on the low end to the vCloud Suite in its entirety? Just to restate the stats what we’ve talked about is as we’ve looked at the installed base and the opportunity to attach the installed base of CPUs out there we’re estimating that we’re now 10% or less penetrated with management products.
And that includes management products sold on a standalone basis or sold as part of vSOM or sold as part of the vCloud Suite.
So it’s a little bit hard to estimate it with precision but the main point here is as Pat pointed out it’s not 90%.
We’ve got 90% of the way to go and the penetration rate at this point along with the momentum we’ve been seeing with the attach rate shows that we’ve got a good growth driver and a driver for 2014 and beyond.
I would like to add that we’ve brought a complete refresh of our cloud management and automation platform to market in Q4 our largest refresh of that platform ever.
And we have seen really good uptake by our customers throughout the quarter especially in our ELAs.
And also I’d like to add that IDC in their latest research paper talked about VMware being the clear cloud leader for management automation and that’s a great sign for us as our customers who are highly penetrated with VMware and vSphere are moving now and adopting the rest of our management automation platform as well.
The next question is from Rob Owens of Pacific Crest.
As you guys look at some of your new opportunities through NSX and VCHS which do you think could be larger for 2014? And at what point do you think we get some material contribution from either category? You know when I think about the revenue contributors against 2014 I’d come back to the same drivers we’ve been talking about in terms of material contributions: end user computing for all the reasons we’ve talked about even before AirWatch; the refresh of the product line the significant investments we’ve made from a go-to-market perspective and the refresh of the leadership team Sanjay in particular coming in.
That I think is a very very significant driver of growth continuing for us in 2014.
We’re very very pleased with the progress we’re seeing there.
That’s one.
Management as we just talked about growing very healthily this quarter and continuing into 2014.
And again I think the key thing to understand from a VCHS perspective even vSAN as we move to GA and as we think about NSX moving from architectural wins with dollars attached to them these are really things going to be contributing in a more material nature as we think about 2015.
The key thing is penetrating the marketplace today and starting off from a low base but seeing what we predict to be relatively significant growth but off a lower base contributing more materially in 2015 and beyond.
And I’ll just add if we could take you back to the [TAM] analysis that we had given you at last year’s financial analyst day the TAM opportunity in the networking area was we estimated on the order of $8 billion.
The TAM opportunity in the storage area was a similar size.
The TAM opportunity that we saw in the hybrid cloud was on the order of $16 billion.
So clearly the hybrid cloud of that TAM is the largest incremental one even as it materializes over ’15 ’16 and beyond as we see that occurring.
But these are all independently very large market opportunities that we’re pursuing.
So even though the revenue contributions in ’14 are modest the incremental growth opportunity for us ’15 ’16 and beyond is very substantial.
I think it was $14 billion Pat but it’s been a little while since we put that out there for hybrid cloud.
The next question comes from Abhey Lamba from Mizuho Securities.
Carl I think you touched upon this a little bit.
Clearly end user computing is a big area of focus for you.
Can you give us more color on your go-to-market strategy for those solutions? Are you reaching out to the same groups who make decisions on the server infrastructure and they’re influencing end user computing? Or are you building new relationships within the company? It could be helpful if we could get some color on selling [motion] and strategies for both desktop and mobility on the server side.
As you know we invested pretty heavily on the go-to-market side of EUC last year hiring hundreds of people to help us deliver our platform into the market.
And when we sell into the market we’re actually selling into two different folks.
First there’s the infrastructure folks who have now taken over responsibility for end user computing.
Or we sell to an end user computing organization who’s responsible for desktops and mobility.
And one of the things that led us so attractively to AirWatch is we started to really dive deeper and really engage with the end user computing community inside of our customers.
We were winning VDI deals but we were not participating in if you will mobility opportunities which every time we asked them who are you looking at and who may you be going with the name AirWatch came up which is what led us to the strategic acquisition of AirWatch to round out our end user computing portfolio.
So net-net we’re selling to multiple people in the account either infrastructure people who’ve taken over responsibility for end user computing or there is an end user computing organization itself that does exist in a lot of the large enterprise accounts globally.
Before we conclude Pat will have final remarks.
Thank you all for the good questions.
In closing I’m just proud of our team’s performance in Q4 in 2013.
In 2014 we will continue bringing breakthrough innovations to market as we help our customers transform to the mobile cloud era of computing.
We appreciate your time today.
Thank you very much for joining us.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr.
Paul Ziots Vice President Investor Relations.
Go ahead Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding revenues in each period attributed to the products and services contributed to Pivotal Software and the products and services associated with divestitures consummated by VMware in 2013.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization capitalization of software acquisition-related items and realignment related net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding Pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our second quarter 2014 quiet period begins at the close of business on June 13 2014.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2013.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Our first quarter has been a solid start to 2014 with both license and total Q1 revenues excluding Pivotal and divestitures growing 18% year-over-year.
We continue to deliver the results we said we would deliver.
Our road map of product innovation is unparalleled and stronger than ever before.
And we are attracting and retaining the brightest and best talent in the industry.
Our industry is going through an unprecedented shift as IT transforms from client server computing to the mobile cloud era offering customer secure seamless and instantaneous access to the applications and data they care about.
To stay ahead of this shift IT teams are increasingly choosing to replace their hardware-defined data centers with software-defined data centers where all core components are virtualized and infrastructure is highly automated and delivered via software.
During this period of change VMware is uniquely positioned to help customers unlock the tremendous value embedded in a software-defined future across both onsite and offsite infrastructures and from the data center to the device.
No one is better suited to help companies move seamlessly between their public and private clouds with the same consistent environment and no one has a more complete vision and offering for managing and securing the ever expanding range of end-user devices and customers agree.
At VMware we are laser focused on our three strategic priorities: the software-defined data center hybrid cloud and our end-user computing business.
I want to highlight some areas where we made significant progress in Q1 to accelerate our growth and deliver against our long-term strategy.
As we talk to customers one thing is becoming clear they not only see the value of the software-defined data center they increasingly believe that this approach will become the model for leading data centers in the world.
Recently I was joined on stage at Interop Las Vegas by IT leaders from Nexon America The U.S.
Department of Agriculture and WestJet who shared the dramatic impact that our NSX platform is having on their IT organizations.
We also described our vision for how the software-defined data center with compute and network virtualization and its foundation will enable enterprises to addressed modern security needs in a profound new way.
We continue to see strong customer momentum new customer pilots and increased production use of NSX.
February also marked a major milestone with the launch of VMware Virtual SAN a new radically simple storage solution optimized for virtual environments.
With VMware Virtual SAN we delivered our first software-defined storage product.
An important milestone given that storage represents the last remaining piece of our SDDC strategy.
We continue to rapidly execute on our hybrid cloud vision with vCloud Hybrid Service becoming generally available to U.K.
customers on February 25.
At the U.K.
launch event we were joined by IT leaders from Betfair and Cancer Research U.K.
who spoke about how vCloud Hybrid Service is enabling their organizations to seamlessly extend their data centers to the cloud.
And on April 15 we launched vCloud Hybrid Service Disaster Recovery a unique hybrid cloud-based service that provides a simple and affordable way for customers to protect their data centers.
Early customer feedback has been extremely positive making us confident that hybrid cloud-based disaster recovery services represent a significant business opportunity.
Our End-User Computing Group continues to push the pace of innovation.
We have added a foundational element to our End-User Computing portfolio with the successful completion of the acquisition of AirWatch the leading provider of enterprise mobile management and security solutions.
I am excited to report that we have seen accelerated customer momentum in the weeks following the acquisition with AirWatch now at about 12 000 customers.
We continue to believe that we are gaining share in desktop virtualization.
We are seeing strong customer interest in Horizon DaaS a new cloud-based desktop service introduced in Q1 which delivers enterprise-class virtual desktops running on VMware vCloud Hybrid Service.
And on April 9 we announced VMware Horizon 6 a highly integrated solution that delivers published applications and desktop virtualization on a single platform.
Horizon 6 features highly differentiated integration with our software-defined data center components like Virtual SAN and cloud management.
It is the industries most comprehensive solution for centralized management of everything from physical desktops and laptops to virtual desktops and applications.
Expect us to continue to be aggressive pushing the pace of innovation as we are just in the early stages of a tech tonic shift transitioning from the previous client server platform to the mobile cloud era.
I'll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q1.
Carl? Thank you Pat.
Having spent time in each of our regions over the past two months as well as with over 4 000 people at our partner exchange conference in February it's clear we are seeing universal interest and excitement across our global customer and partner base.
VMware software-defined data center vision is being embraced by customers and partners alike.
And they see the value and agility and efficiencies resulting from abstracting pooling and automating key data center resources.
In addition with our recent Horizon 6 launch and the acquisition of AirWatch we believe we now have the broadest portfolio of end-user solutions in the industry.
Customers are also beginning to see hybrid cloudy emerge as a leading format for running their infrastructure moving forward.
This is why our vCloud Hybrid Service is uniquely positioned to help customers move seamlessly between their public and private clouds.
We are pleased with the increasing breadth in growth of our new product offerings introduced throughout this past year although sales for these newer products continue to be relatively small as we ramp during 2014.
These new products coupled with our strong presence in cloud management end-user computing and compute virtualization position VMware with the strongest array of product offerings in our history.
Now for more detail on Q1.
As Jonathan described on prior calls we expected to see a stronger Q4 to Q1 seasonal impact associated with our growing size as a company and the strength of our Q4 performance.
In addition we invested more heavily than usual in Q1 to ensure the sales force was skilled in selling our newer products.
This resulted in fewer actual selling days during the first quarter than we had originally anticipated.
And finally as customers look to incorporate more of our expanding product base into ELAs some of the deals took a little longer to close.
These factors impacted our ELA closure rate in Q1 with ELAs representing approximately 25% of total bookings as compared to 40% in Q4.
As a result both license and total bookings grew less than 10% year-over-year excluding Pivotal and divestitures.
None of the deals have failed to close in Q1 were lost to competitors.
In fact we achieved another record in quarter renewal rate for ELAs and another record in quarter renewal rate for support.
In addition the average term for support remained well above 24 months and we closed two ELAs greater than $10 million.
The same number as Q1 last year.
Based on the plans we have in place we expect our bookings performance in Q2 to accelerate from Q1.
Consistent with the revenue guidance Jonathan will provide in a few minutes we're off to a solid start in Q2 and have already closed a number of ELAs in April.
Turning a moment to geo commentary.
Results were relatively consistent for Q1.
In constant currency the Americas Asia-Pacific and EMEA each grew total bookings less than 10% year-over-year.
In relative performance the Americas was the strongest region followed by Asia-Pacific than EMEA.
While we saw the same effects I described across many of our countries on a relative basis we continue to see solid growth in most of our countries including the U.K.
France Netherlands and China.
Of our largest countries we saw the greatest effect in Australia and Germany where growth rates were actually negative.
And while our growth rates in Japan were better than most of our peers it was less than our expectation.
Taking a look at product groups.
End-User Computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 35% year-over-year in Q1.
As Pat said we believe we continue to gain share in the desktop market.
We also believe AirWatch continues to be number one in the enterprise mobile management security market by customer talent and sales.
In Q1 we also significantly expanded our EUC ecosystem strategically partnering with Google to provide secure cloud access to Windows desktops apps and data on Google Chrome books delivered by VMware's desktop-as-a-service platform.
We also expanded our F5 Networks partnership to provide secure access control for virtual desktop deployment and with NVIDIA to provide rich graphics performance via desktop-as-a-service.
Cloud management grew license bookings greater than 30% year-over-year in Q1.
This growth was held by an increasing number of ELAs containing vCloud suite and more partners who are transforming their businesses to sell and deliver management along with vSphere including vSphere with operations management.
Compared to a year ago we are pleased with the significant growth in a number of partners now selling management solutions.
With cloud management penetrated into just over 10% of our installed based we still see plenty of room to grow.
One additional area of strength we continue to see is in our vCloud Automation Center.
This is becoming the overarching cloud orchestration and policy-based management solution for not only vSphere but also the hybrid cloud industry.
Cloud management is also a prime driver of our suite strategy and we continue to see more customers adopting the software-defined data center vision.
In Q1 approximately 50% of ELAs contain vCloud suites.
Customer interest in VMware NSX our network virtualization platform is accelerating.
In addition to endorsement from the customers who joined on stage at Interop we are seeing growing demand for NSX increasingly because of the data center security capabilities.
Customers understand that threats are outpacing security investments and they can no longer just buy more boxes to secure their infrastructure.
They are exploring fundamental architectural changes and the virtualization layer is becoming the place for security innovation.
NSX enables a new approach where security is automated and baked in versus bolted on.
Our ecosystem strategy is driving this trend as well.
In Q1 we extended our partnership with Palo Alto Networks to deliver an integrated solution the unify security across customers physical and virtual environment with a single-point of management.
In regard to storage Virtual SAN was available for only 14 selling days in Q1 but we couldn't be more pleased with customer interest.
Customers see Virtual SAN as a compelling storage platform for Tier-2 and Tier-3 workloads PDI deployments disaster recovery and for test and development.
We have already closed a sizeable storage-only ELA in Q2 with a large retailer who is looking at deploying Virtual SAN as a solution in their stores and distribution centers.
And finally Hybrid Cloud once again we grew our Hybrid Cloud business greater than 100% year-over-year.
As a reminder this includes our VMware service provider program or VSPP and our VCHS Hybrid Cloud offerings.
In addition to the momentum described by Pat regarding last weeks launch of vCloud Hybrid Service disaster recovery we went live in March with VMware's Horizon DaaS the industries first hybrid desktop-as-a-service.
We also announced that VMware vCloud government service is expected to be generally available in the second half of 2014.
This is significant because VMware will be delivering a Hybrid Cloud Service to U.S.
federal government customers under the same Hybrid Cloud architecture as vCloud Hybrid Service.
This distinguishes VMware from the competition as the only Hybrid Cloud which incorporates both desktop-as-a-service and disaster recovery-as-a-service.
In conclusion we could not be more excited about the future and are well-positioned to lead the industry with the most complete portfolio in the company's history.
Our customers have been responding enthusiastically to our new products and we are confident about our outlook for Q2 and beyond.
With that I'll turn it over to Jonathan? Thank you Carl.
We are pleased with our Q1 financial results meeting or exceeding our revenue and non-GAAP operating margin guidance for the quarter.
As we look forward we are maintaining our expectations for revenue and non-GAAP operating margin for Q2 and the full year 2014.
Before we get into specifics regarding Q2 and full-year 2014 guidance I want to speak in more detail about Q1.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures Q1 total revenue growth was 18% year-over-year above the midpoint of our guidance range.
License revenues of $561 million were also up 18% year-over-year and exceeded the upper-end of our guidance.
Total reported revenues grew 14% year-over-year in Q1 with license revenues up 15%.
AirWatch contributed approximately $5 million to total revenue in Q1 with 50% between license and services revenue.
Given the size of the business we are not planning on breaking out AirWatch separately after Q1 but will provide appropriate color going forward as part of our commentary on End-User Computing.
We remain pleased with the diversification of our business with non-standalone vSphere license bookings again greater than 45% of total license bookings as compared with greater than 30% in Q1 2013.
Also as expected Q1 non-GAAP operating margin was 31.1% reflecting the addition of AirWatch to VMware in late February and our continuing investments for future growth.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q1 was up 9% year-over-year to $0.80 per share on approximately 435 million shares.
In summary we did what we said we were going to do in Q1 and I'm proud of these results.
I'll now focus on key additional highlights that will be helpful in understanding our Q1 performance.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-investments at quarter end of $6.6 billion up $441 million sequentially.
This reflects the acquisition of AirWatch and incurrence of additional debt.
Our operating cash flows of $750 million in Q1 were up 11% year-over-year and free cash flows were $673 million up 12% year-over-year.
Favorability in our free cash flows reflects a slightly slower start in CapEx than originally anticipated.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 1.8 million shares of our stock for a total $169 million at an average price of around $96 per share.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $4.17 billion up 20% from Q1 2013 and of which $1.6 billion is long-term up 23% year-over-year.
A total of $64 million of unearned revenue at the end of the quarter related to AirWatch.
$45 million was transferred from the opening balance sheet at the close of the acquisition and we added an additional $19 million net of revenue recognized to $5 million between closing and quarter end.
License unearned revenue accounts were approximately 50% of the total unearned revenue for AirWatch.
As expected approximately 88% of our ongoing revenues will be recognized ratably over future quarters.
The unearned revenue mix is in line with prior periods and is primarily a reflection of our strong maintenance business.
I'd encourage you to refer to the slides and financial tables accompanying this earnings call for further details on our results.
Now turning to guidance.
As I said in my opening comments we are reaffirming our 2014 guidance for revenue and non-GAAP operating margin.
We continue to expect revenue for 2014 to be between $5.940 billion and $6.100 billion or up 14% to 17% year-over-year.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures and including AirWatch we continue to expect a total revenue growth rate for 2014 to be up 16% to 18.5% versus 2013.
Likewise we also continue to expect license revenues for the full year to be between $2.550 billion and $2.630 billion or up 12% to 16% year-over-year.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures and including AirWatch we continue to expect our license revenue growth rate for 2014 to be up 13% to 17% versus 2013.
We also continue to expect that non-GAAP operating margins for 2014 will be approximately 31%.
Having completed the AirWatch acquisition this quarter and while it's early days we now see the opportunity for around $100 million of total revenue contribution from AirWatch this year.
This is already included in our revenue guidance ranges I just mentioned.
In addition consistent with Q1 actual performance we now expect a split of 50/50 between license and services revenue for AirWatch versus our prior expectation that two-thirds of the revenue would be licensed.
To assist you with your models we have provided an updated outlook for AirWatch in the tables accompanying this call.
Moving on to operating cash flow.
We now expect operating cash flows for the year to between $2.55 billion and $2.75 billion for the entire year.
We still expect approximately $350 million of CapEx for 2014.
Remaining guidance for 2014 is included in the slide deck posted on our Investor Relations website.
I'll remind you that we expect increased interest expense over the course of 2014 due to the additional debt associated with AirWatch and as a result expect other income and expense for the full year 2014 to be approximately zero.
For Q2 2014 we expect total revenue to be between $1.425 billion and $1.465 billion or up 15% to 18% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q2 are expected to be between $605 million and $615 million or up 14% to 16% year-over-year.
As I indicated on the Q4 call we expect non-GAAP operating margin for Q2 to be between 29% and 29.5%.
And finally including interest payments on debt related to the AirWatch acquisition other income and expense is expected to be an expense of approximately $2 million in Q2.
In summary we did what we said we were going to do in Q1.
We have the fullest portfolio of products in the company's history and remain optimistic about the prospects for the balance of the year and beyond.
And with that I'll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let's get started.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from John DiFucci of JPMorgan.
There is a lot of numbers there and I appreciate all the detail Jonathan.
I guess I'll start off with my one question which is -- and I think I got through the math with Carl is a little confused.
And I think it has to do with the AirWatch deferred revenue to make those adjustments for the licensed billings growth.
But I guess maybe I'll ask question for Jonathan on maintenance.
So maintenance in this quarter was sort of flattish quarter-over-quarter which is a little surprising given the good results I think.
I would assume there is very little foreign exchange effect this quarter.
So I guess maybe what else are we seeing there to see because typically I'd expect to see it grow a little bit? Yes you're right.
Although I would just point out that the actual results in maintenance are basically slap-bang right up where I talked about.
So I think it was $799 million versus $800 million for the quarter.
So it's right out what we guided to into the quarter.
You're correct we didn't see a significant net foreign exchange effect this quarter.
It netted out between a couple of different currencies having ups and downs some strength in Europe and some weakness in particularly in Asia-Pacific region but overall nothing really to call and highlight.
I think the strength that you're pointing to was around the license revenue where we were over $10 million which really just we were quite proud of that number over also.
I don't really have any additional color other than that it was as expected.
Probably the positive news was around license performance.
So we should probably expect to see that grow a little bit there going forward in the maintenance? Well again along the lines of the guidance I've given I think we're comfortable with those numbers I've just shared not just for Q2 but for the full year.
And Jonathan what I might do here is since I'm sure this is going to come is the question that John thought he had answered with the AirWatch deferred which would probably be the question of the calculated bookings that many on the street have calculated as compared to Carl's comments about less than 10% growth.
Did you want to just make a brief comment about why they might exist the difference like that? Yes sure.
First of all I would note that the calculation you're doing of revenue plus sequential changing deferred would probably result in numbers around 13% license and a total of 15% and this includes AirWatch's effect.
Some of you may numbers high as 18% if you don't take out the assumed deferred revenue.
We're obviously pleased with those numbers.
What Carl was talking about was our consistent transparency we provided with respect to the color and internal bookings metrics.
And we've been doing that now for a number of quarters really to give you a sense of operation what's going well and what needs a little bit of work.
So the external metric's a great proxy for the results as we consistently talked about some differences and that's really what you're seeing here.
Our next question comes from Raimo Lenschow of Barclays.
If you stay on that subject a little bit Carl can you maybe elaborate a little bit on the ELA performance in Q1 and why you're so comfortable and that will come back and accelerate in the second quarter? Let me reiterate something Jonathan said earlier.
We are quite pleased with our financial results for Q1 beating the midpoint on total revenues and beating the high-end of our range on license and right on track with what we guided for operating margin.
And we were pleased to be able to once again reaffirm our revenue guidance for both Q2 and the full year.
So once again we did exactly what we said we do.
At the same time we've heard Raimo from folks like yourself and many of you on the call that you've always really been appreciative of our transparency and we've always shared with you a number of the different metrics internally that we track in this quarter which we shared with you that our license and total bookings for less than 10%.
It was really driven around a couple of things.
First seasonality and Jonathan has talked about seasonality going into Q1 both on our Q3 and Q4 earnings call and we did see more seasonality than we expected.
And we also took a conscious decision to educate enable and train our field so they had greater skills in delivering to our customers all of the great products and solution that we rolled late last year and into Q1 of this year.
So we actually had less selling capacity and time in Q1 to drive some of the larger ELA to closure.
And lastly we continue to be quite excited about the interest our customers are showing around ELAs and they continue to expand both the size and scope of our ELAs because we're including a lot of our new products.
And as we got towards the end of the quarter there is a number of ELAs that actually went into Q2 that we were not able to close but I'm please to say two things none of the ELAs that went from Q1 into Q2 were lost to a competitor.
And secondly we have already closed a number of those ELAs in the quarter here in Q2.
And we're pleased with the pipeline and the metrics we're tracking.
And we have confidence that we'll reaccelerate our bookings growth in Q2 over Q1.
And just to pile on to that a bit we did invest quite substantially in training and also in our leadership right our partners right to the start of the year given this incredible breadth of product line that you've heard us roll out over the year.
And we really see ourselves as uniquely positioned to deliver that into the industry.
And just having spent a lot of time in the field over the last few weeks customers are really responding to that.
As Carl said Q2 is off to a strong start and we really look forward to this execution as we described for the year.
Our next question comes from Brent Thill of UBS.
Just a follow-on on the ELA renewal pool.
Carl I just wanted to check I think you mentioned last year that the pool this year in '14 is bigger than '13 does that still apply in terms of what you're seeing in your pipeline? So a couple of things.
So I indicated on my prepared remarks that we had another record in-quarter renewal rate of ELAs.
We're very pleased with our ability to renew customers and their ELAs on a timely manner.
And when we look at the full year right at the ELA opportunity we did say I think on the last earnings call that from a dollar value we see a larger opportunity in the FY '14 over FY '13 from a dollar value of ELAs up for renewal.
And we see a similar split between the first half and the second half of the year and very similar to what we saw in FY '13.
So we have a larger percentage of our renewal opportunity in the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
So very consistent with what we saw last year.
And again we're pleased with our ELA new renewal rates being all time high here in Q1.
Can I just add one point to this Brent? So don't forget that ELA renewals are a portion of the ELAs that we do overall.
In fact the majority does continue to be new ELA.
So renewals I understand the focus on it.
The renewals are good opportunity but there's a broader opportunity around new business as well.
Just a follow-up.
There is nothing unusual you're hearing in customer buying behavior that there is anything they're concerned about.
This is just more seasonality in your view? I think Brent nothing has changed in our business model.
Nothing has changed in the customer's desire and excitement to enter into ELAs with us in Q1 versus FY '13.
In fact we're seeing the size and scope of the ELAs continue to expand as they look to add more and more of our products into these ELAs.
And as I indicated we did take more time in Q1 to train our sales force.
So they're better for FY '14.
And with that we just had less selling capacity as we got towards the end of the quarter.
And a handful of deals went from Q1 into Q2 some of which I already mentioned close here this quarter.
Our next question comes from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch.
Just one observation and then a question.
Just answer the reason that given that ELA as a percentage of billings was little bit lighter than your transactional billings must have been really off the charts.
And just correct me if I misspoke there but the question is are you still sticking with your longer term acceleration of your topline which I think you folks laid out very eloquently at your March strategic forum last year.
And if that's the case how should we think about the way you rank order the different drivers of that acceleration be it core maybe your core has done a growth fast because the workload growth rate and the high end of the enterprise is going to be supportive of that assumption.
Maybe some of that comes from ELAs maybe some of that comes from the newer products such as VSAN.
You see management with automation.
I know it's a bit of a tough question to ask and a tougher question to answer but to the extent that you can give us any color on this that would be appreciated? I'll start to cash with that.
And we do see that this TAM opportunity that we laid out which is related to the broad thesis that we described at our Analyst event last year the $50 billion plus TAM the 20%-plus opportunities that we see in the portion of that really guided the thesis against our accelerating growth rate overtime particularly as we go into these new areas.
And we try to give you a model that I'll let Jonathan talk about of how we see those accelerating overtime as they become a larger portion of our business but that guides both where we've invested the excitement that we're seeing around the new products right and the long-term growth potential that we've laid out.
And I'll let you deal with the transaction clarification that Kash asked.
So Kash what we did as you recall at the Analyst Day and nothing has really changed with respect to it.
We broke out the opportunity we've seen in SDDC software-defined data center the hybrid cloud opportunity and End-User Computing.
And we talked about each of those with a potential growth opportunity.
I'm not going to stack rank the size of each of the individual components of the growth opportunity.
Obviously you expect us to mange that as a portfolio and that's what we will do.
But clearly we are excited about the four or five key growth drivers that are both executing today and that we execute in the future.
Today we see contributions from VDI we see contributions from our management suites and the management products that we have.
And then going into '15 and '16 we expect to see more meaningful contributions from NSX or the network and security products that we have.
And then the fact we have G8 our Virtual SAN product just in the last month alone gives you a sense of the stage of development we're at with that and the stage of excitement we're at.
So we've got four or five key growth drivers kicking in over the course of the next 12 to 18 months.
So that's what gave us the original confidence to talk about and a continued confidence just to be clear about the opportunity for that 16% to 20% growth rate that we've talked about in End-User Computing management contributing today network mobile and storage increasing in the future.
And Kash let me talk a little bit about the transactional business and the performance in the quarter.
So our transactional performance performed as we expected in the quarter and our entire vision of no more naked vSphere is becoming a reality.
As Jonathan indicated greater than 45% of our bookings now in the quarter came from non-vSphere related business.
So we continue grow our business around more of a holistic solution and we continue to see or channel become more skilled at selling solutions like vSOM which is vSphere with operations management really embracing this whole notion of no more naked vSphere.
So we're pleased with the transactional business and our partners are really getting up-to-speed with selling more of the broader portfolio of products and offerings we have.
Is there anything to add? Just to add a little bit to that.
One of the things having just come off of our Partner Exchange Conference we haven't given our partners our channel a lot of new products that were high-velocity transactable products and vSOM is really the only one.
Now with VSAN plus VDP as well as bringing AirWatch into our channel we see that we're bring an off a lot more product that they can be selling and just coming off of multiple partners exchanges that I personally was at and participated in the enthusiasm of the transactional channel for these broader products is extremely high.
Our next question comes from Philip Winslow of Credit Suisse.
Just want to focus back on the NSX.
I know it's obviously early in its life cycle but wonder if you could provide just an update on what you're saying as far as traction goes sort of where we stand in terms of just winning some sort of proof-of-concept and call it architectural wins out there.
And sort of how you expect to see this progress over the course of 2014? So let me start and then I'll ask Pat to add some color here.
So first of all we continue to be pleased with our customer's interest in NSX our network virtualization platform.
And it's really starting to resonate with our customers.
We now have a number of customers moving this platform from test and depth straight into production and we saw a significant increase in Q1 in large enterprises and services providers is actually doing real meaningful proof-of-concepts around this platform.
And they couldn't be more excited about it.
We also are starting to see something emerge pretty quickly here that it's not just about network virtualization it's about network virtualization and network security.
And we're starting to see our customers really value this platform to deliver layer two through seven services but really start to double click on that value it brings from a network security perspective.
And lastly this vision of leveraging the power of virtualization like network virtualization in the notion of distraction pulling and automating is resonating with our customers and they clearly are starting to say we see the value of network virtualization and we don't have to rip and replace our hardware infrastructure at the network layer to get all the benefits that VMware can bring us.
Pat any color to add? Overall the software-defined data center vision resonates with customers.
They get it very very quickly.
And networking and NSX is the delivery vehicle for that next-leg of the software-defined data center is very powerful here.
As Carl was mentioning our security aspect of this it was highlighted at the Interop speech that I gave as we laid out with customers like Nexon and WestJet a very powerful vision of how they're embodying this in their solutions today.
So overall it's not just network virtualization the agility efficiency and cost savings but an entirely new model of how they can execute the overall data center with a powerful new security model to go with that is really bringing excitement to a broad set of our customers.
The next question is from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Pat I was wondering if you could share with us just with AirWatch now embedded in the VMware family can you talk to us about how you're going to change the go-to-market strategy with the channel now for AirWatch? And also how do you see having this asset is helping your End-User Computing positioning going forward? And I will start and ask Carl to help me here.
Clearly I mean the first quarter is an early quarter despite all the opportunities of distraction for the first quarter of acquisition AirWatch is off to a strong start and in the couple of months it's been part of the family.
We've seen the teams come together well integration.
We have started to see the pipe emerge that VMware is enhancing and expanding the business opportunity with it.
The number one asset number one company in the space the large increase in customers that we saw in Q1 and when we combine that with the EUC suite and particularly coming off of a very strong Horizon 6 announcement the combination of those two is really turning heads in the industry turning heads in the partner community as they're viewing our presence in the EUC space as now the clear vision and we are executing right with great excitement into partners and customers with respect to that vision.
We do see that there is broad ability for us to accelerate and leverage the broader platform for VMware in the go-to-market.
And may be Carl you can speak specifically to some of those.
So let me talk about three key areas that we expect to help accelerate AirWatch's growth going forward.
The first is our Enterprise segment meaning that we have pretty deep penetration into the enterprise thing.
We have deep meaningful relationships with them.
And we've already saw early signs where VMware's relationship with customers can have a material impact and the outcome of AirWatch's business going forward.
Secondly as we go towards a second half of this year we're going to leverage the vast channel that the VMware has around the world to extend the reach of AirWatch as we bring their products and solutions on to VMware's price list that will then be available through our distributors and channels around the globe.
And lastly one of the areas we recognized even during our due diligence is that we could really expand their presence in Europe and in APJ where VMware has a large footprint and AirWatch doesn't.
Although they have a larger footprint in Europe and APJ and we're working very closely to leverage the core VMware sales force in our channel in those international markets driving broad adoption and expansion of AirWatch going forward.
Our next question comes from Walter Pritchard of Citigroup.
I guess I'm just trying to figure out how to interpret your bookings commentary because you're reiterating guidance for the year you're basically reiterating your Q2 guidance.
But I think in Q4 you talked about having license booking at the very high single-digits and here you're talking about having license bookings below 10%.
Should we think about this is as you're sort of eating through some backlog to get to the type of growth numbers because you're putting up license revenue numbers they're well above the license bookings numbers.
It sounds like we're not changing any numbers here.
I think myself and others are a bit confused as to actually interpret that commentary around bookings? I think the way to think about this is first of all we're not anticipating deferred -- let me just remove from the questions that you brought up we're not anticipating in this revenue guide a deferred revenue reduction over the course of the year.
We're actually from here expecting a deferred revenue build as you would expect.
We don't guide on that number but I just want to make sure that is clear.
The only reason we share this bookings information is just to give some insight as to some of the internal metrics that we track we manage our teams to.
So I think of it as being color.
We've used it consistently throughout 2013 to give you sense about what's going well what's maybe some challenges.
And as Carl has talked about the slightly lower percentage of ELAs as mix of our overall business in Q1 gave a rise to a lower internal metric.
Now clearly that external metric is little bit higher.
And there always been some differences between the revenue plus change in deferred calculation that you do and then what our own internal metrics are.
So we're trying to give you a sense about some of those things.
The external metric's always a great proxy but there are always some differences and we talked about examples of those in the past.
The key thing Walter as we think about is going forward is the robustness of the pipeline that we've examined and we've looked at as we think about the opportunity ahead.
There is nothing changed.
In fact I would say the opportunity continues to be enhanced everyday.
We see customers talking about SDN.
And we see the broad industry adoption around network virtualization starting to really gather a pace.
So the key thing is the opportunity and the revenue guide is entirely supported by the pipeline we see for overall bookings but for ELAs in particularly going into Q2 and the back half of the year supported by the overall forecast.
And Jonathan just on that so you've guided the year obviously sort of license revenue in the 13% 17% excluding pivotal.
I mean it sounds like we need to see license bookings accelerate from the high single-digit to be able to get to 13% to 17% is that a fair way to correlate the two? Yes also I think that's a very clear assumption and as we talked about we planned the year anticipating some great seasonality coming into Q1 we certainly saw that frankly little bit more than we were anticipating which is why we've been talking as we have.
As Carl anticipating and as we see our own internal forecast we do see that acceleration occurring as we get into Q2.
Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund of Nomura.
I'm wondering about the seasonality that maybe a emerging you mentioned 14% total bookings in Q4.
And looking back I think Q1 last year was a 29% of total bookings of ELAs.
And I'm wondering with such a strong Q4 is there anything you're seeing in terms of seasonality of ELAs that might account for some of the slower bookings growth you saw in Q1? This is Carl.
Let me take that.
So we indicated on our last two calls that we expected to see greater seasonality in Q1 over Q4.
And it did play out that way exactly as we had anticipated.
And if you look back over time the strongest quarters for VMware from an ELA perspective as a total percentage of our bookings is Q2 and Q4 which is why we're confident.
We'll see a reacceleration as we head into Q2.
And as we always see in Q4 with budget flushes and people having end-of-year money we always see a big uptick in our ELA.
So nothing materially has changed.
We did see greater seasonality maybe than we anticipated in Q1 but we expect a strong bounce back in Q2.
And we do plan on having again a strong seasonal quarter for ELAs as we get into the later half of the year specifically Q4.
Our next question comes from Ross Macmillan of Jefferies.
I just wanted a clarification on one thing on the ELAs with regard to was the weakness both in new ELA signings as well as renewals or was it weighted one way the other? And then my second question Jonathan for you is as the product portfolio expands should that be a driver of more ELAs within the mix naturally over time as customers consume more from the VMware product portfolio? Ross I hate to play this role but which question would you prefer to have answered the first one or the second? Let's go for the first.
Ross I knew you'd say that.
This is Carl.
So let me take a stab at that.
So as I indicted in my prepared remarks and I think I said in some of the Q&amp;A here we actually had a record in-quarter renewal of ELAs.
So our ELAs get expired in the quarter.
We did a very good job in partnering with our customers to close in in the given quarter.
So the majority of what we seen in the seasonality of our ELAs was a net new ELAs.
And so that's what I was trying to articulate.
And when you're doing a net new ELA there is a little bit more selling time that we have to have and we didn't have that capacity in Q1 which is why a handful of deals went into Q2.
In some of those ELAs we did already close here in this quarter.
Our next question comes from Matt Hedberg of RBC Capital Markets.
So VSAN has only been out a short while here.
But can you talk about what you guys are focused on internally and with partners to drive further adoption there and as it relates to also the relationship between vSAN and EMC ViPR? That would be helpful? So let me start and Carl can add some color to it.
So this is Pat.
Overall VSAN has just gotten a lot of enthusiasm.
The value proposition is extremely easy-to-use for a V admin it's extremely easy to use.
It's a selling motion essentially the same as vSphere.
So it works so nicely to our channels who are very well versed.
The value propositions of great performance low cost easy-to-use is going extremely well.
Early so it's hard to say but as you saw in the Carl's script we have already closed a meaningful ELA with it already so not only to transaction but also to some larger opportunities.
With respect to ViPR we've laid out clearly a positioning where ViPR is heterogeneous a control plane for all of storage right.
And VSAN is a new storage tier for the VMware user.
Enough they're actually quite far apart from each other in the overall storage landscape.
And we have build very complimentary used-cases and you'll be seeing more from us in that area at EMC World this year a very specific examples of how the two products work together and complement each other.
Carl anything to add? I think you said it well.
I think the channel is quite excited about VSAN.
It's a similar selling motion to Pat's point when they adopted the selling motion of vSphere.
And there's a lot of excitement not from our partners only but also our customers are like.
And as I indicated in my prepared remarks we've already closed a sizeable VSAN ELA with a larger retailer is looking to deploy it to get the operational benefits and the cost savings in their stores and distribution center.
So we're up to a solid start with VSAN.
Our next question comes from Keith Weiss of Morgan Stanley.
I just had a quick question for Jonathan.
Given the full year revenue guidance and the operating profitability remains the same.
Can you help us understand despite sort of downtick in operating cash flow is that a result of slightly weaker bookings expectations from the beginning in the year or help us understand why that comes down a little bit? You're correct.
We've brought down the midpoint of the operating cash flow guide just a hair from what we've said 90 days ago.
That midpoint is now around $2.65 billion.
We just see good collections in Q1 as we expected.
This is really a direct relationship to the software ELAs in Q1 that Carl talked about software ELAs or lower than expected ELAs in Q1 just give us less time to collect those as we go into Q2.
So at this point the bookings performance more directly correlate to the cash flow just as a net effect in particular in Q2.
Overall though cash flow at 2.65 I still think is pretty healthy.
And I would actually know that people largely were -- I understand consensus as well at this point.
Our next question comes from Shaul Eyal of Oppenheimer.
So let me get the fact that the little slippage you've seen on the ELA was not driven by competition but any general thinking about a competitive landscape as a whole you can share with us? I'll start on that Shaul.
Overall the competitive landscape has not changed significantly at all right.
SDDC unquestionably the broadest vision for the industry about how to transform the data center.
Our Hybrid Cloud story is resonating very well and EUC right is resonating well.
And if we look at each one of those right SDDC we continue to compete with Microsoft as normal but that success rate remains extremely high.
And particularly with our enterprise customers we just don't see any place that we are not wining with it.
In the Hybrid Cloud obviously that's a much more nascent space and we're highly differentiated with our focus on enterprise hybrid and our partner Ecosystem.
And while early getting good resonance from it even though we'll say the enterprise cloud space is very early and immature overall.
And then the end-user space competitively we are the aggressor and we are winning share.
We are now driving the industry forward with a bold vision the combination of AirWatch and Horizon 6 is clearly putting the entire industry on notice of our aggressive intents in this area and customers and partners are responding quite favorably to it.
Our next question comes from Michael Turits of Raymond James.
So I'll ask you a question about the factor that you cited regarding broader deals having perhaps been a contribution to the push out.
Is that sort of a change when obviously you're selling a lot broader range of products than you were a year ago maybe six months ago? So is that resulting in longer decision cycles? And if so where is the confidence that it clears up in the near-term? Let me take this.
So let me start by saying on average our sales cycles are unchanged.
We haven't seen a big expansion or elongation of our sale cycles.
But what I did state and you were accurate in saying is that we're seeing aside in scope of our ELAs continue to grow as customers look to incorporate all of our products and even some of our new products seeding into their ELA.
So as that occurs we're just in much deeper conversations with our customers.
And some of the ELAs close on time as we've always said in a given quarter some close are early and some actually go out a quarter or two.
But in general we haven't seen any real change in the business model or how we're engaging with our customers and we're quite encouraged by the ELA pipeline that we have going forward.
Our next question comes from Gregg Moskowitz of Cowen &amp; Company.
Most of my questions have been asked.
But just wondering on the EUC side with deadline for Windows XP support having recently passed what impact in your view does this have on the VDI market going forward? Overall there is a broad interest on the part of customers to move past managing the break-fix patch of desktops.
And as a result of that the overall EUC suite whether it's a VDI discussion or a Mirage discussion those discussions are expanding and accelerating for us.
And the Windows XP and the support has just accelerate that set of conversations with customers overall and we do think that that is one of the accelerants to the EUC business for us and we expect that to become more of a discussion as we go through the year.
One thing to add their Pat is we were really excited with the launch of our desktop-as-a-service that came out in Q1.
So as people look to migrate off of their current desktop environment a lot of them are thinking about do we want to still do this in-house and it's a very capital intensive geo deployment or do we want to go to an OpEx model and get desktop-as-a-service from a cloud provider like VMware.
And our desktop-as-a-service runs on top of our vCloud Hybrid Service and we were the first in the market with this solution and we are seeing quite a bit of excitement and demand for desktop-as-a-service as it relates to people migrating off their existing desktop operating systems.
Before we wrap up the call Pat will make a final comment.
Thank you very much for the good questions that we've had.
In summary we are seeing strong momentum across all three of our strategic priorities.
Yes I'd like to thank our customers partners and employees for their passion support and engagement as we build on this momentum into 2014.
Thank you very much.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
All participants are in a listen-only mode until a question-and-answer session of today’s conference call.
(Operator Instructions) Today’s conference call is being recorded.
If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.
And now I will turn the meeting over to Mr.
Paul Ziots Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone.
And welcome to VMware's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding revenues in each period attributed to the products and services contributed to Pivotal Software and the products and services associated with divestitures consummated by VMware in 2013.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of acquired intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization capitalization of software certain litigation and other-related items acquisition-related items and realignment-related net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding Pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our third quarter 2014 quiet period begins at the close of business September 12 2014.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2013.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul.
Good afternoon everyone.
Our second quarter results were strong and I'm very pleased with the team’s performance.
Our total revenue for Q2 grew 18% year-over-year excluding Pivotal and divestitures.
In addition order flow improved in Q2 reflecting a number of larger deals.
Carl will cover this in more detail in just a minute.
We continue to deliver the results we said we would deliver.
Our roadmap of product innovation is unparalleled and we are attracting and retaining the brightest and the best talent in the industry.
VMware is uniquely positioned as IT transitions from client server computing to the mobile cloud era.
Our solutions offer an efficient path to the future without sacrificing the vital needs for security availability and compliance required by all businesses.
We are committed to providing our customers with the openness and choice of software defined future where all core components are virtualized infrastructure is highly automated and delivered via software and customers aren’t locked into close proprietary technologies.
We do this from devices to data centers across private public and hybrid clouds all this in the same secure and consistent environment.
At VMware we are laser focused on our three strategic priorities the software defined data center hybrid cloud and our end-user computing business.
We are extremely pleased with the performance of our growth businesses which made significant progress in accelerating our growth and delivering against our long-term strategy.
Customer momentum and adoption continues to build across all areas of our software defined data center portfolio.
We are particularly pleased with the increased production use of our network virtualization solution VMware NSX with more than 150 paying customers.
In April we appeared in Gartner's data center networking magic quadrant furthest in the completeness of vision access in this space the first time that the software vendor has ever been included in this magic quadrant.
In addition we are seeing significant recognition of our strategic position in this market from our other industry players.
These factors have contributed to accelerate an engagement from customers as they look to take advantage of the unique benefits offered by a truly software defined alternative to networking.
Q2 also saw continued momentum for our cloud management offerings with IDC identifying VMware as number one in both worldwide cloud systems management software and worldwide data center automation software.
These report echo what we hear from customers and prospects that VMware provides a comprehensive portfolio of management products purpose built for the cloud with an open and end-to-end cloud management approach.
In our first quarter of VSAN sales we saw rapid uptake with more than 300 paying customers already utilizing the platform and more than twice the previous number of VSAN ready nodes now available from partners.
We also built upon our continued leadership in compute virtualization with the expansion of our long-standing relationship with SAP and the announcement that SAP HANA platform is now virtualized and available to customers using VMware vSphere 5.5.
We continue to rapidly expand the global footprint of our vCloud Hybrid Service.
Last week I was joined by Ken Miyauchi CEO at SoftBank to announce a joint venture Japan which launches our first vCloud Hybrid Service in Asia.
The service will [GA] (ph) in Q4 and is already available as a private beta.
I was also joined by Yang Jie General Manager of China Telecom’s cloud computing branch to announce a partnership for China Telecom to provide hybrid cloud services for the China market be available in early 2015.
We also announced our seventh production data center and by the end of the year we expect the VMware-operated cloud will be available in over 75% of the world's cloud market.
With approximately 4 000-service provider partners a VMware cloud will be available in essentially every market on the planet.
We are not stopping there.
We are committed to the continued expansion of our global footprint for hybrid cloud services and to provide our 500 000 customers the best and fastest path to an enterprise class hybrid cloud.
We also have seen exciting progress within our end-user computing business unit.
It’s now five months since we acquired AirWatch the leading provider of enterprise mobile management and security solutions.
Coming off of this acquisition we're seeing burgeoning demand for AirWatch by VMware solutions with customer numbers increasing from 10 000 at the end of 2013 to approximately 13 000 today.
In addition Gartner continues to recognize our leadership in this market placing AirWatch by VMware as a leader in their enterprise mobility management magic quadrant and positioning us for the second year in a row furthest on the ability to execute axis.
In Q2 we also launched Horizon 6 an integrated solution that delivers published applications and desktop on the single platform.
Horizon 6 is the industries most comprehensive desktop solution with centralized management of any type of enterprise application and desktop including physical desktops and laptops virtual desktops and applications and employee-owned PCs.
As I mentioned earlier we are in the early stages of tectonic shift transitioning from the previous client server platform to the mobile cloud era every customer I meet feels like the pace of technological change is faster than ever before.
Software is being used to efficiently manage companies and this has become the heart and soul of new company and new ventures with an existing company.
Customers are realizing the dramatic benefits of the new software defined model for IT and VMware delivers exactly that.
By making IT dramatically more fluid and automated we ensure that customers can boldly deliver the apps that deliver revenue differentiation and loyalty faster and more reliably than ever.
I'll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q2.
Carl? Thank you Pat.
We delivered a strong quarter in Q2 as we continue to execute against our three growth priorities the software defined data center hybrid cloud and end-user computing.
Operationally we are executing against our short-term goals as we build a deep foundation for VMware's future.
The increase time we spent in enabling our sales force in Q1 clearly paid off in our results for this quarter.
Our global sales team continues to be more confident in selling our powerful lineup of solutions.
We are also pleased to see the channel enablement activities targeting our newer products gain significant traction during the quarter.
The channel alongside our direct sales force is now better trained and equipped to sell our next-generation products than ever before.
I came away from Q2 even more confident that we are seeing universal interest and excitement across our global customer and partner base regarding our next-generation products.
As our customers increasingly embrace the vision and opportunity presented by the software defined data center we are seeing sales of our new products continue to ramp and customers continuing to move forward from buying purely standalone these year to purchasing our suite and additional products such as network virtualization.
These newer products coupled with our strong presence in cloud management end-user computing and compute virtualization position VMware with the strongest array of product offerings in our history.
Moving on to the Q2 details we are pleased with our overall sales performance.
We saw solid year-over-year growth in EMEA and the Americas this quarter.
APJ was slightly down this quarter.
I'll provide more detail in a second.
Overall we perform well on multiple fronts.
Q2 was the highest ever in quarter renewal rate for support and a consistently high in quarter renewal rate for ELAs in terms of number of deals renewed.
The average term for support remained well above 24 months.
Approximately 37% of total Q2 bookings were ELAs which was the second-highest quarter contribution ever.
We closed eight deals greater than $10 million in the quarter close to an all-time high for deals of this size.
Our strength in ELAs and renewals reinforces VMware's role as a long-term strategic partner to our customers and their commitment to our software defined data center strategy.
While we’re pleased with the rebound of our ELA sales from Q1 I'd encourage you to continue to look at our business in aggregate mainly because we see multiple selling mechanisms such as subscription gradually coming into the mix.
Increasingly what we are selling is more important than selling mechanism itself.
While ELAs are a good mechanism for introducing newer products to customers we are also seeing customers explore a choice of buying models and we expect that this will continue to evolve.
Moving to regional performance our Q2 bookings growth was highest in EMEA followed by the Americas.
We were pleased with the consistent broadbase growth in EMEA particularly across Central Europe.
In Germany we closed two of the greater than $10 million deals and we are pleased with the progress of the leadership transition mentioned in the Q1 call.
In the Americas we had an outstanding quarter in the state local and education sector as we benefited from this segment year-end budget flush.
Notably two of the eight ELAs greater than $10 million closed during the quarter were from the U.S.-led sector.
In APJ we saw Q1 weakness in Japan continue into Q2.
In Australia we had solid results but a tough compared due to a large ELA one year ago in Q2 FY13.
Meanwhile growth in China remained very solid which is encouraging giving the challenges that some of our peers are seeing.
I will make a few comments here about Q3.
We expect a strong U.S.
federal quarter driven by a particularly large federal ELA opportunity that we have been engaged on for almost a year.
We continue to expect a modestly improving global economic backdrop similar to the one we anticipated when full-year guidance was provided at the start of the year and typical seasonality in EMEA.
Taking a look at product groups end-user computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 50% year-over-year in Q2.
The core VMware sales force is increasingly leveraging EUC in bringing the expanded portfolio of products to our enterprise customers.
Once again we believe our EUC desktop business continued to take share from the competition and grew at double digits.
We saw strong momentum from horizon desktop as a service our cloud-based desktop service introduced in Q1.
AirWatch had a very strong quarter continuing to build upon its leadership position and remaining number one in market share in Enterprise Mobile Management and Security.
We announced a significant milestone in our operational integration plan since the AirWatch acquisition less than six months ago.
Effective July 1st AirWatch enterprise mobile management platform became available on the VMware price list to our global network of more than 75 000 partners.
We expect this change will accelerate our joint go to market efforts and bring deeper collaboration between the VMware and AirWatch sales forces.
In Q2 we had a number of key end-user computing wins.
In addition we continue to expand our end-user computing ecosystem with the recent announcement of a new partnership with Box to enhance secure enterprise collaboration across mobile devices for the next-generation enterprise mobile management.
Cloud management grew license bookings greater than 30% year-over-year in Q2.
This growth was held by approximately 50% of our ELAs containing vCloud Suite.
We continue to see momentum with both our vCloud Suite and VSAN offerings as both our direct sales force and the channel work towards making the no naked vSphere vision a reality.
In addition by increasing cost transparency and business value our IT PM Solution is enabling us to improve our position with CIOs and CFOs.
Our cloud management penetration has risen to 12% of our installed base leaving us plenty of room to grow.
While standalone vSphere sales continue to ship to the suite our strategy is working.
VMware Solutions such as vCloud Automation Center are becoming an industry standard for cloud automation and management.
We’re particularly pleased that vSphere was once again a leader in the Gartner's Magic quadrant for x86 server virtualization infrastructure for the fifth consecutive year.
Stand-alone vSphere sales continue to shift we have been driving over the past 18 months to make compute a critical part of the suite offerings.
And with our high penetration across workloads our strong renewal rates and expanding products set we see vSphere as a uniquely positioned strategic platform for expansion into adjacent virtualization product categories such as network and storage.
Our network virtualization platform VMware NSX gained significant momentum in Q2.
Pat spoke about the recognition by Gartner of VMware's visionary leadership in data center networking.
Customer interest is also very high being in the market for only two years and only since October with NSX we are pleased to say that our networking business is now at a greater than $100 million total annual sales run rate with currently over 150 paying customers and traction across all GEOs and verticals.
We are closing key architectural wins as customers look to transform their networking operations in a similar way they did with compute to the use of vSphere and server virtualization.
As we look to move beyond the first hundred customers to the next thousand we are broadening the NSX sales channel through the addition of NSX to VMware's price list and increased channel enablement activities.
This is a decade plus opportunity for VMware.
In contrary to what you may have heard from other vendors this momentum is real and traction is occurring right now.
Our customers are embracing NSX solution not only as a network virtualization platform but as a network security one as well.
Overall we’re seeing our customers value the NSX platform to deliver layer two through seven services but in particular what is clearly resonating with our customers is the value it brings from a network security perspective.
Although still early we are finding the use of microsegmentation to be a new operational model for security and potentially to be a killer use case for the adoption of NSX.
Moving to Virtual SAN we couldn't be more pleased with the product performance in its first full quarter of availability.
While the numbers are still small we well exceeded our internal plan for license bookings.
We are seeing successes across a wide variety of industries market segments and GEOs.
VSAN already has several hundred paying customers reflecting the applicability of the product to VMware environments.
We closed a large storage only ELA with a large retailer using Virtual SAN for remote store locations and we also closed a VSAN driven ELA with a large software customer for a caching service using a simple-to-manage consolidated server in internal storage platform.
Virtual SAN is a great example of how the vSphere platform offers an opportunity for us to expand into adjacent markets.
Virtual SAN is deeply integrated with VMware vSphere and the entire VMware stack providing a unique hypervisor converge storage tier that drives a radically simple operating model for storage.
We look forward to sharing more information about the power behind this new simplified operating model at VMworld in August.
Turning to our third key business hybrid cloud.
Our vision of a hybrid cloud world is being adopted by customers as they increasingly seek to combine their on-premise investment with the best that the cloud has to offer.
We grew our hybrid cloud business which includes our vCloud Service Provider Program and vCloud Hybrid Service Offerings nearly 80% year-over-year.
We have approximately 4000 partners as part of our hybrid cloud network and we continue to see rapid acceleration of our enterprise customers adopting our vCloud hybrid service.
I am pleased to note that we have seen significant momentum in our first quarter of offering vCloud Hybrid Service - Disaster Recovery.
Early customer adoption has been extremely positive exceeding our internal expectations.
In Q2 we also announced with Pivotal the first enterprise class hybrid platform as a service on vCloud hybrid service.
This is significant because our solution makes it possible for new and existing applications to run on the same platform as customers have on-premise simplifying the transition to a hybrid cloud.
This distinguishes VMware from the competition as providing the only commercially supported cloud foundry platform as a service solution from Pivotal available in hybrid cloud appointment for customers to drive rapid innovation and fast time-to-market.
In summary we had a strong Q2.
Our investments in enabling our sales force and channel around our new growth products and market opportunities is clearly paying off.
We are delivering industry changing innovation in the software defined data center hybrid cloud and end-user computing and our customers and partners are excited to continue the journey with VMware.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thank you Carl.
We're very pleased with our Q2 financial results meeting or exceeding our revenue and non-GAAP operating margin guidance for the quarter.
Q2 total revenue was $1 457 million $12 million above the midpoint of our guidance range and up 18% year-over-year when excluding Pivotal and divestitures.
License revenue of $614 million exceeded the midpoint of our guidance and was up 17% year-over-year excluding Pivotal and divestitures.
Total reported revenue grew 17% year-over-year in Q2 with license revenue up 16%.
We remain especially pleased with increasing breadth and diversification of our business with non-standalone vSphere license bookings now greater than 50% of total license bookings up from more than 35% in Q2 2013.
Having passed the 50% mark we’ve clearly established our compute capabilities as a platform for expansion into new market such as management networking storage and hybrid cloud.
As a result we are seeing strong growth in our new product areas and their contributions to our total sales.
I’ll be sharing more detail around this at our upcoming Analyst Day later in August.
As expected Q2 non-GAAP operating margin was 29.4% reflecting the addition of AirWatch to VMware in late February.
Given the momentum we’re seeing in our next generation products and the rapid changes in the market we expect to continue to invest heavily in our newer business areas while maintaining our clear leadership in key areas such as compute virtualization.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q2 was $0.81 on approximately 434 million shares.
Overall Q2 was a strong P&amp;L performance for the company.
We are proud of these results.
I’ll now focus on key additional highlights that will be helpful in understanding our Q2 performance.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $6.6 billion flat sequentially.
In Q2 our operating cash flow was $409 million and free cash flow was $333 million.
This performance was consistent with our commentary in Q1.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 2.5 million shares of our stock for a total $238 million at an average price around $96 per share.
Total unearned revenue ended the quarter at $4.39 billion up 22% from Q2 2013 and of which $1.68 billion is long term up 23% year-over-year.
As expected approximately 88% of our unearned revenues will be recognized ratably over future quarters.
The unearned revenue mix is in line with prior periods and is primarily a reflection of our strong support business.
It's important to note that the participation in renewal rates for our support business remain high and the customers enjoy significant ongoing value from VMware including all future product updates and upgrades.
In effect this model has a great combination of perpetual license business with the ongoing revenues and cash flows associated with the subscription the future upgrades and updates.
I’d encourage you to refer to the slides and financial tables accompanying this earnings call for further details on our results.
Now turning to guidance.
We are maintaining the midpoint of full year 2014 revenue guidance of $6 020 million and narrowing the range to between $5 960 million and $6 080 million representing year-over-year growth of between 14.5% and 17%.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures we continue to expect the midpoint of our 2014 total revenue growth to be approximately 17% with a narrowed range between 16% and 18% versus 2013.
Likewise we also maintained the midpoint of full year 2014 license guidance at $2 519 million and narrowing the range to be between $2 560 million and $2 620 million or up 13% to 15% year-over-year.
Excluding Pivotal and divestitures we continue to expect the midpoint of our 2014 license growth rate to be approximately 15% within narrowed range of between 14% and 16% versus 2013.
We also continue to expect that non-GAAP operating margin for 2014 will be approximately 31%.
We now expect other income and expense for the full year 2014 to be approximately $5 million of income.
Remaining guidance for 2014 is included in the slight deck portion of our investor relations website.
For Q3 2014 we expect total revenue to be between $1418 million from $1 520 million up 15 to 18% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q3 are expected to be between $630 million to $645 million up 12% to 14% year-over-year.
We expect non-GAAP offering margin for Q3 to be the same as Q2.
And finally other income and expense is expected to be approximately 0 in Q3.
In summary we are continuing to execute on our strategy and our Q2 results reflect this.
We’re successfully extending our revenue streams into areas such as network and storage virtualization mobility hybrid cloud and cloud management.
We are pleased to see the results of our continued investments in these new areas begin to pay off.
The significant changes in our industry make us an unprecedented time in history.
We now have the fullest portfolio of products in the company's history and are uniquely position to bring value to our customers partners and shareholders.
In closing I’d like to remind you that in conjunction with VMworld we are hosting our annual financial Analyst Day on August the 25th in San Francisco.
If you've not registered already would like to attend please contact our investor relations team.
And with that I will turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator lets get started.
Thank you.
(Operator Instruction) And first we have Mr.
Brian Marshall ISI Group.
Sir your line is open.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Nice quarter.
Can you talk about the relationship of ELA booking -- ELAs as a percent of license bookings last quarter at 25% how that went down and resulting this quarter we saw very solid increased traction with respect to some of the new initiatives or irons in the fire like VSAN and obviously NSX which probably the customers increased about 50% the way we calculate it sequentially? Can you talk a little bit about that relationship and if that volatility is something we should expect going forward? Nice quarter.
Thanks.
Hey thank you very much Brian.
This is Pat.
And I just want to emphasize just what a solid performance by our team and quite proud of them overall.
And as your question highlights just the strength of the growth businesses as well I will let Carl tackle a bulk of the question that you had Brian but great to hear from you and thank you for the congrats.
Hi Brian.
So as it relates to ELAs as we expect that we saw a really solid bounce back in ELAs in Q2 representing 36% of our bookings in the quarter second highest only to Q4 where it was 40% of our bookings.
And you know as we had indicated on our Q1 earnings call our ELA business did not perform as expected and we thought a lot of that was self-induced because the incremental time that we put into it enabling and educating our field and our channel to be capable of selling all of our new products into the market throughout 2014.
And from our perspective those enablement activities and net increase time we spent clearly paid off in Q2 performance around ELAs and we expect it to carry us throughout the rest of the year.
As it relates to some of the other products you mentioned VSAN and NSX as you saw this quarter we tried to provide a little bit more color on each of those products and how they're being received by the market.
And as we had indicated we’re seeing strong uptick at least initial uptick in our first full quarter of VSAN and NSX as we had indicated more than 150 paying customers and $100 million run rate clearly indicates that we are doing well with some of our new and emerging products as we take them to market.
Thank you Brian.
Next question please and one question per person.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Kash Rangan Merrill Lynch.
Sir your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you for taking my question toggling between two earnings conference calls.
Congrats a new quarter.
Could you talk about the commentary on bookings? I believe that in Q1 you had very good billings but you expressed some disappointment with how your bookings came along.
Could you talk about how that turned out in Q2? I would imagine that bookings rebounded in Q2 but just wanted to get that confirmation from you folks as opposed to the reported billings which look very impressive? Thank you Kash this is Jonathan.
Thanks for the question.
As you know we shared that metric fairly consistently actually through the last few quarters mainly because we had seen it has been an important indicator where there was a significant difference and partly because we’re seeing softer external billings calculation numbers compared to what we’re tracking to internally.
We had been sharing that metric with you and obviously that was what gave rise to some of the commentary around bookings last quarter.
I am pleased to share this quarter there was a pretty much a large -- there was convergence between those numbers.
They were largely the same internal and external.
And going forward anticipate your next question what we will be sharing with you will be just appropriate color.
We on a patent call feel the same way as I do appropriate transparency and color on the business as it helps you understand what’s going on but I am pleased to say this particular quarter the numbers were very very similar.
We’re very pleased with Q2 results.
And clearly as you saw with some of the data points we are sharing the strategy is starting to execute well.
Thank you Kash.
The next question please.
Our next question is from Brent Thill UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Carl just on the slipped Q1 deals that you highlighted did the majority of those deals actually come in in Q2 or some of those still in the Q for the back of the year? Yeah thanks Brent.
So let me kind of reiterate what we mentioned coming out of Q1 and the three reasons we saw the softness in our bookings and why we’re transparent about it.
First we saw increase in seasonality from Q4 to Q1 after a really strong Q4 performance of 40% ELAs.
We talked about the fact that we did have a less selling days in the quarter because we chose to enable our field and make sure they were enabled and capable of selling the robust portfolio of products we had coming into the year.
And then the third thing we did talk about was the fact that a few deals did slip from Q1 into Q2.
And if you recall on the Q2 earnings call I had indicated some of those actually already closed by the time we got to our earnings call for Q1.
With that as a backdrop as we went into Q2 when we looked at the guidance we provided we did see a strong ELA pipeline that materialized for us throughout the quarter both new ELAs were strong and our renewal of ELAs in the given quarter were strong as well.
So a strong pipeline going into the quarter a large number of the deals the slipped did close in Q2 which drove the 36% of our bookings coming from ELAs in the quarter a really solid quarter around the world by our teams executing and continuing to drive ELA business for the company.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please.
And next we have Raimo Lenschow.
Your line is open.
Thank you and congrats from me as well.
And just a quick question on cash flow Jonathan you mentioned the reasons why the second half is better but can you just -- Q2 seemed a little bit weaker than The Street had modeled.
Can you just give us a little bit of comfort again why the full year numbers is still the full year numbers and how that’s going to change in the second half? Thank you.
Well Raimo remember what we talked about for the full year coming out of Q1 was a range of $2.55 billion to $2.75 billion.
So that I think is broadly in line.
We talked pretty extensively at the end of Q1 about the ELA bookings shortfall compared to our own internal plan.
And at that point I had adjusted the range by just over $100 million to reflect that range I’ve just given you.
So I don’t actually think people should be surprised.
I noted that most people didn't actually adjust their Q2 models.
We don't guide quarter by quarter obviously given the lumpy nature of cash flow cash flows in general.
So hopefully that’s giving you a sense.
I mean what you're seeing in Q2 is very much a reflection of the commentary we shared in Q1.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Thanks Raimo.
Next question please.
Next we have Ms.
Heather Bellini Goldman Sachs.
Ma’am your line is open.
Hi guys this is Justin on for Heather.
Two question questions.
SDN market there has been a lot of back and forth from you guys and Cisco.
I'm just trying to get a better understanding maybe the primary reasons why you guys might win deals this time and perhaps lose first time would be helpful.
Thanks.
Sure.
Let me start on that one.
And as we said in the commentary about Carl and I gave we have a strong quarter for NSX right 150 paying customers $100 million run rate.
Really what customers are seeing is the power of the software defined data center strategy and this contrasted with the issues as we said and used cases like microsegmentation really show the power of this approach things that literally cannot be achieved by any other approach delivering radical improvements in the security of applications and east west traffic flow efficiencies.
Now that said as we said before we love Cisco gear.
We don’t need them to lose and many NSX customers are using it.
So we really see this as an opportunity for customers to take advantage of a new technology network virtualization and we are out to win in that game and do it on the best gear that’s available in the industry.
Thank you very much.
Next question please.
Next we have Mr.
Philip Winslow Credit Suisse.
Sir your line is open.
Hi thanks guys and congrats on a great quarter.
Just have a question on your two new products NSX and VSAN.
Obviously it was pretty impressive the VSAN just customer count number that you had considering the fact this has only been available for a little over quarter and 300 and then NSX you mentioned that a 150.
What if you adjust sort of comparing contrast how you think about sort of the near-0term ramp of these two versus sort of the long-term opportunity that each one provides? Thanks.
Hey Phil this Carl starting and then Pat maybe you can add some color as well.
So when we think about both of these market opportunities when we look at over the next three years they are relatively the same size and scope for us for both the VSAN and NSX as we calculate our TAM for these two markets.
And to your point in our first full quarter with VSAN we have seen quite a bit of success.
We beat our internal plan and metrics and people see the advantage of leveraging local disk and flash under existing servers and the change of the operating model for people now who were once just deploying VMware and virtual machines to simultaneously deploy VMware virtual machines and storage on local disk in their existing server footprint.
So there is a paint in the operating model that our customers are really starting to enjoy and we saw that play out in a number of larger deals as well as in a very transactional business model for us around VSAN.
And NSX as Pat had just indicated we are pleased with the traction in the market.
We believe we are the only viable shippable product that’s ready for production scale in the market today.
And our customers are starting to implement this in many different areas whether it’s in test at dev or new Greenfield software defined data centers or in product in some cases.
We’re starting to see this become a true platform for delivering the software defined data center with the NSX platform.
With that I will turn it over to Pat and see if he wants to add some more color about these two exciting products we brought to market last quarter.
Yeah and just to add a bit to that and as Carl said the TAM opportunity as we laid it out is very similar for the two.
And VSAN is a more transactional sale right which really is exciting to us to really bring energy to our transactional channel.
The NSX product line is a more architectural sale it’s a much more strategic typically a higher end sale.
And when I am talking to my VSAN team I am telling them they better do go faster than the NSX team.
And when we’re talking to the NSX team we are telling them they better go faster than the VSAN team.
And it really is great to see them race into the marketplace with exciting new technologies.
I would emphasize that both of these leverage the foundation of the vSphere.
That’s really to us the powerful thing about the SDDCs that are networking opportunity or VSAN opportunity and/or management opportunity gets a build on the foundation the momentum of our 40 million VMs or 500 000 customers and really spring board to deliver the SDDC out scale in the marketplace.
Thank you Phil.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Walter Pritchard Citi.
Sir your line is open.
Hi thanks.
Carl and Jonathan I am wondering if you could talk a little bit but I know you are not guiding to 2015.
If we look forward to 2015 did you have sort of the trough in ELA renewable cycle that you had back in 2012 repeating itself again and you do have these new products which it sounds like based on the progress you are making this quarter in Q2 you are quite happy with their progress.
I am just wondering you set a picture up over a year ago talking about accelerating growth into 2015 on a three-year plan.
I am wondering if you’re comfortable reiterating at or if you could talk to sort of how things maybe different than when you originally foresaw that back a year ago? Walter thanks for the question.
I will start and I will hand over to Carl just perhaps to talk about again some of the underlying trends that we are seeing.
I think that it’s premature for us to talk about 2015 at this point allow us to go through Analyst Day coming up here and also as we get closer to 2015 we will give obviously a ton more specificity.
We are certainly pretty encouraged by the momentum we are seeing.
We are starting to see the evidence shown up what we’re planning for.
We are seeing momentum on NSX as expected and the momentum you noted with respect to customer momentum the momentum getting above $100 million annual sales run rate in an important milestone for us.
We were planning for much of this as we were anticipating the momentum through the year and it’s encouraging to see it’s definitely encouraging and pleasing to better share those metrics first but it’s way premature for us to talk specifically about 2015 at this point.
I think the point I -- or the last point I’ll just make is clearly when you are in early stage markets like these are and we do consider them to be multiyear decade plus like opportunities for us in both cases for the two you mentioned.
You are going to see some volatility.
You are going to see some lack of predictability in those first few quarters and even the first few years and we are in those early stages.
Our momentum seems to be good.
We certainly feel very good compared to the competition and I think are positioned well but let us get closer to FY ’15 before we start talking any more detail.
And the only other thing I would Jonathan is we’re very pleased with the quarter from an end user perspective and end user computing perspective.
We saw very solid performance in the first full quarter since the acquisition with our AirWatch business and we continue to believe we took share in the end user computing space specifically the VDI market.
And the last thing I would address you talked about what’s the ELA opportunity is as it relates to 2015 we are not going to provide a lot of detail about 2015 and ELA opportunity but what I can tell you is the opportunity from a dollar value is larger than we saw in 2014.
So we will talk all that into account as we get closer to 2015 and provide guidance for the year.
Thank you Walter.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Sir your line is open.
Excellent.
Thank you guys for taking the question and nice quarter.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the actual revenue and license revenue contribution from AirWatch and how well have you guys been able to integrate AirWatch sales into a broader Horizon 6 you see our sales cycle? Maybe I will talk about our numbers first of all just to clarify what we have been saying about AirWatch and then Pat or Carl if you want to add if I miss anything out.
As I said last time or last quarter we’re not going to be specifically breaking out AirWatch numbers going forward.
We went into pretty extensive disclosure last quarter what we predict from AirWatch and I just refer you Keith back to some of our very specific disclosure we shared with respect to revenue expectations.
I was pleased to see in this the first full quarter of AirWatch that they did and they did great.
It’s always challenging as a smaller company coming into a larger company to navigate the waters but they’ve done a really good job.
So congratulations out to Alan and John in particular and the whole team there.
The performance over was largely in line with the guidance I shared with you last quarter.
So that I think is your sense of how they actually did.
We’ll continue obviously to give you appropriate color as we talk about the end user computing business which is where it's being integrated into under Sanjay Poonen.
I think overall some of the statistics that we shared.
We saw customer count of almost 80% actually over 80% year-over-year and now approximately 13 000 customers.
And they’ve added a record device count this quarter 1.2 million additional devices under management now in Q2.
So again very good progress we’re seeing.
No signs of integration disruption which you often see with transactions like this.
I think we are off to a good start.
Yeah.
I’ll just add a few comments.
We just completed our operational Board of Directors.
The management construct were used to carefully manage that integration process last week.
And I’ll tell you the team is excited.
They’re winning in the marketplace.
It feels like we are increasing the separation between us and number two and the rest of the pack.
So we’re feeling very optimistic about how well that is going.
As we indicated that we just price listed it for our broader channels so we’re expecting to see that acceleration as we bring the broader VMware channel and sales force to bare on the product line.
And the opportunity here we are really thrilled with.
And many of our big customers now that were able to start bringing this forward are just doing massive projects taking advantage of mobility.
So overall we’re quite excited their entry into the VMware and leadership team there their passion for this segment is really unbridled.
Thank you Keith.
Next question please.
Our next question is from Mr.
Gregg Moskowitz Cowen &amp; Company.
Sir your line is open.
Okay.
Thank you very much and congratulations on a very solid quarter.
I had a question for Pat.
There's been a lot of recent discussion about containers and docks more specifically.
And I'm wondering the containers represent some risk to the usage of VM in certain types of workloads what’s your perspective on that? Yeah.
Thanks for the question Gregg.
And very simply put no we don’t think of containers as a replacement.
We don’t see it as an either or but it’s clearly a both end opportunity.
We see the future as both.
Well clearly the VM provides a proven model for security networking and resilience compliance management orchestration really being that infrastructure for both old and new applications where containers give an opportunity for an efficient model for next-gen or third-generation application but don't address many of those core needs of infrastructure isolation security.
So we see this is a huge opportunity for us to further extend the value of the vCloud suite the hybrid cloud delivering this common platform for today as well as tomorrow’s application.
And maybe the analogy would be that it’s like the JVM of many years ago.
It just higher level container structure right the Java virtual machine that gives you an efficient model for new app development but it needs the infrastructure components that the VM offers.
You’re going to hear us talk a lot more about this at VMworld and we have some exciting things that we’ll be discussing in this area coming up because we really do see at as an opportunity and it’s clearly a both end environment as we go forward.
Thank you.
Thank you Gregg.
Next question please.
Next we have Mr.
Shaul Eyal of Oppenheimer.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Hi guys congratulations on my end as well on the strong performance.
So Pat in your prepared remarks you’ve made some indirect comments on your competitors what some of them are saying the in the marketplace? What is happening on the competitive landscape versus guys like Microsoft they also report a strong results just right now? And maybe just in one word your thoughts on the Apple and IBM enterprise mobility announcement from last week.
Thank you.
On the Microsoft situation not a lot has changed.
They continue to be competitive.
We continue to see them as really the prime competition for right the private cloud environment.
We’d emphasize that we are no longer just the hypervisor it's about the SDDC.
We’ve talked about the strength of management networking and storage as a result and how we’re really changing that competitive battlefield.
We continue to see that we’re rarely if ever loose versus them in that regard.
So overall not much has changed and if we’ve really talked about the virtual machines as really this Goldilocks zone that allows us to move into these new areas very effectively.
And -- on the broader competitive environment everything for us yes it’s a competitive environment.
We are in this place where the industry right see so much going on that -- there are these challenges that we’re facing but the answer is and I think there’s our numbers have shown right.
We’re continuing to ride this environment extremely well and deliver extraordinary value for our customers.
Once we give respect to the Apple IBM announcement it was somewhat surprising I think for the industry overall to see these two company’s come together.
But our perspective is right that it really accelerates the position of the Apple business in the business environment at the application level and given the leadership position that AirWatch has as the MEM environment for that we see that as a positive for us and it’s going accelerate the benefits of that for enterprise customer for which we are clearly the mobile enterprise management solution of choice.
So we think about all in all its going to be a good opportunity for us to accelerate our position.
Thank you.
Thanks Shaul.
Next question please.
Next we have Mr.
Rob Owens Pacific Crest Securities.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks so much.
On the EMC side of your business you talked about success with both VDI and with AirWatch.
Are you’re seeing this is discrete opportunities are people looking at deploying this more strategically in terms mobility just looking for more broad market color? Thanks.
Yeah.
So as I indicated earlier Rob.
We saw a very solid quarter from AirWatch continuing to grow at the rate we expected maintaining the number one market position in the enterprise mobile management and security.
And VDI continues to -- we believe take market share from the competition.
With that being said we are hearing from our customers that they believe we have the most holistic if you will desktop to device platform for managing and securing any type of device people want you to get access to their enterprise applications which is why this quarter we’re rolling out a new Horizon suite bundle that includes everything we’ve traditionally brought to market around VDI management of VDI management of the existing and if you will traditional desktops and now we’re including the AirWatch platform as part of if you will the Horizon suite as well.
So clearly our customers are driving us in that direction and we believe we have the most holistic management platform to address both the mobile world we’re living in today and the existing desktop that reside in enterprises both today and beyond.
Thank you.
Thank you Rob.
Next question please.
Next we have Mr Matt Hedberg.
Sir your line is open.
On your prepared remarks you highlighted customers are exploring some other purchasing model such as subscription? I guess I’m wondering how should we think about that in terms of your long-term growth? I believe you’ve said it’s going to be more of the gradual impact but should the cannibalize license revenue or just going to be more additive in total? Matt this is Jonathan.
Thanks for the question.
If you go back to what I shared at the Analyst Day I think last year and you took that very illustrative model and projected it forward.
I don’t think it’s been cannibalistic.
I actually think it well I think its going to be both.
I think you’re going to see some substitution but it's really about customer choice and I think you’re going to see where it’s -- somewhere it’s clearly additive.
And an example where it’s clearly additive I would say is in mobile space.
AirWatch clearly has an opportunity to continue to be number one in marketplaces and it’s clearly doing a really nice job of executing and that business model is both a perpetual license model and a subscription model.
VCHS our hybrid cloud solution is clearly subscription model.
That’s another example of it been additive.
Depending on your perspective of are we talking about workloads moving off of premise and whether those are additive or not but clearly it’s an additive opportunity when I think about the overall opportunity ahead.
And then to the extent we provide the licensing models as we go forward providing customer’s choice for example we've been doing some term licenses for NSX.
We’ve actually being seeing customers increasingly want to see that consumed as a perpetual license.
So I think a bit more is being additive in our overall business model.
We just want you to be taking and look at the overall list of different ways the customers are consuming our businesses and as we go forward we certainly see it being a gradual but steady mix shift.
And this is the topic that we’ll cover more at the Financial Analyst Day as well coming up at VM World.
Thank you Matt.
Next question please.
Next we have Mr.
Rajesh Ghai Macquarie.
Sir your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks for taking the question.
I appreciate the color and commentary on the strength of the vCloud Hybrid Service businesses.
I was wondering if you could share any metrics related to the penetration of vCloud Hybrid Services into your vSphere installed based.
And how many of your 500 000 customers are looking at it or using it and versus how many have migrated to computing alternative such as Amazon? Thank you.
So I’ll start Rajesh and then I’ll let Pat add some color.
As we had indicated in the prepared remarks our cloud business which consists of our vCloud Hybrid Service and our VSPP partner network around the world grew greater than 80% on a year-over-year basis so really solid growth.
And while it's still early days of the vCloud Hybrid Service in the market we are seeing very good uptake of our enterprise customers who have an interest to seamlessly federate their workload both on premise and off premise with the common management platform for both.
So we’re in early days but we’re quite proud of our performance and we’re not standing still either.
We’re continuing to -- if you will go around the rest of the world like our market entry in the U.K.
and last week we announced two strategic partnership in Asia with our vCloud Hybrid Service as it relates to China and Japan market.
So we’re very pleased with the early adoption of the program in the platform.
And I do think it's important to note that in our prepared remarks we talked about more than 4 000 VSPP partners around the world who are delivering cloud-based services on top of our platform.
And we see them as a true extension of our vCloud Hybrid Service creating what we believe is the largest hybrid cloud infrastructure network globally.
Anything to add? Yeah.
The thing that really is resonating with our customers is this idea of hybrid.
And with that that we’re giving them another layer of choice where they can literally choose where they want their workload at any time of the day or night and the flexibility to compatibly insecurely move them across those environments.
So focusing on our enterprise customer base delivering a hybrid alternative and having this vast partner ecosystem we really believe this is a very very unique strategy into this very rapidly growing but still very instant enterprise cloud market.
And as you saw by the announcement last week as we extended worldwide that enthusiasm now really is the setting as a partner on global basis.
And you continue to see announcements new service new partnership opportunities as we go through the year.
Thank you Rajesh.
Last question please.
Next we have Mr.
Michael Turits Raymond James.
Sir your line is open.
Hey thanks guys.
And there is bounce back on ELAs this quarter.
Just wondering if you should expect the similar skewing in terms of second half first half and ELA bookings this year as last year? So Michael this Carl I’ll take that.
As you know we don’t guide on ELAs but we do expect to see a solid second half as it relates to ELAs against total bookings.
I would expect to see your traditional seasonality of Q3 where it may not be as strong as Q2 or Q4 but when we look at our ELA business holistically we do expect to have a solid second half.
Our 2014 ELA renewal opportunity was slightly greater in the second half than it was in the first half of the year.
And we are confident that our customers are looking at us in a very strategic way as we are having deep architectural conversations with them as to what their next generation data center looks like.
And we continue to talk to them about entering into multiyear agreements to help them with their journey to the software defined data center.
And with that backdrop I would expect a solid second half of the year from an ELA perspective.
Thanks Carl.
Thank you Michael.
And before we conclude Pat will have a final comment.
Thank you very much Paul.
In summary we’re seeing strong momentum across all three of our strategic priorities.
And I’d like to thank our customers partners and employees for their passion support and engagement as we build on this momentum into the second half of 2014.
I hope to see many of you at the financial Analyst Day.
We’re holding as part of VMworld.
Our annual industry conference taking place in San Francisco at the end of August.
A must attend event for anyone in IT infrastructure.
Thank you very much.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Paul Ziots Vice President Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding revenues in each period attributed to the products and services contributed to Pivotal Software and the products and services associated with divestitures consummated by VMware in 2013.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today’s call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware’s performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of acquired intangible assets employer’s payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software certain ligation and other related items acquisition-related items and realignment related net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding Pivotal and all 2013 divestitures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our fourth quarter 2014 quiet period begins at the close of business December 12 2014.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2013.
With that I’ll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
It was good to see many of you at our recent financial analyst day.
Overall we have once again met our guidance for the quarter.
We are pleased with our revenue growth of 18% and that our operating margin exceeded our guidance.
We’re particularly pleased with these results in the context that the industry disruption and economic challenges which are affecting businesses around the world.
Looking ahead our roadmap of groundbreaking innovation is unparalleled and we are seeing continued strong growth and momentum with our new products and services including AirWatch NSX V SAN and vCloud Air.
We are also continuing to attract the best leaders in the industry across all of our businesses.
Customers are telling me that their businesses are facing more change and disruption than ever before.
Business models that once seemed solid and permanent are being replaced by fluid rapidly shape shifting new approaches.
They also recognize that in this fluid world software is now the primary means of engaging prospects and customers and is the key driver of innovation and growth.
Customers come to us to embrace a new model for IT a software-based fluid IT that is able to separate itself from the constraints of hardware one that is able to instantly provision applications one that offers the greatest choice without compromise and above all one that offers a new model for security optimized for a world of millions of applications.
This is the world of the software-defined enterprise that is enabled by a new model of IT.
We help our customers take advantage of this new model of IT through our software-defined datacenter hybrid cloud and end-user computing offerings.
This past three months we’re rich with customer and industry momentum as we hosted our VMworld 2014 conferences in San Francisco and Barcelona and our AirWatch Connect events in Atlanta and London.
In total we hosted approximately 33 000 attendees across our industry-leading events where we featured demos keynotes hands-on labs and numerous activities for our customers and partners.
We also announced the wave of new products and services across our three strategic business imperatives.
Starting with the software-defined datacenter these announcements included the debut of VMware EVO:RAIL the fastest way for customers to build and deploy a software-defined datacenter.
EVO:RAIL is the first solution that a family of hyper converged infrastructure offerings from VMware going from power on to virtual machines in minutes and will be available from partners including Dell EMC Fujitsu Inspur NetOne and SuperMicro.
In addition we were excited to announce two additional partners in Barcelona last week HP and Hitachi Data Systems.
We also announced new virtualization cloud management and integrated open stack solutions that dramatically advanced the industry’s most complete product portfolio for implementing a software-defined datacenter.
We were also excited to announce joint innovations with Google Pivotal and Docker which offer our customers containers without compromise helping them to run and manage container-based applications more securely on a common platform at scale in private-public and hybrid clouds.
No other vendor offers this unique combination of efficient containers combined with the security and management of VMs on a common platform.
Our open stack and container announcements enable us to provide the greatest choice to our customers without disruption to their IT environments.
Last week in Europe we announced key innovations to our cloud management platform to enable comprehensive management of applications and infrastructure on hybrid clouds.
We unveiled VMware vRealize Suite 6 which is purpose built for managing the hybrid cloud and we also introduce vRealize Code Stream 1.0 an exciting new product that provides a single dashboard for end-to-end visibility of the entire DebOps process.
We continue to see VMware NSX gaining significant momentum and industry validation with more than 250 paying customers today.
Over the past quarter we announced strategic technology and go-to-market partnerships for NSX with the rest of Networks F5 and HP as well as the technology and global reseller agreement with Dell to deliver NSX solutions worldwide.
At VMworld Europe we announced plans with CFC for the new web scale infrastructure as a service platform which will be built on OpenStack and VMware Software-Defined Data Center solutions including NSX.
We also announced the partnership of Palo Alto Networks to deliver unified security for the hybrid cloud.
On the hybrid cloud front I am excited to report that VMware continues to rapidly expand the capabilities and global footprint of our vCloud Air hybrid cloud platform the best and fastest way to an enterprise-class hybrid cloud.
It’s still early in the game for the secular shift to enterprise-class hybrid cloud computing.
VMware is listed as one of only five mega providers in Gartner’s 2015 planning guide for cloud computing and we believe it’s because of our rapidly expanding service offerings geographic reach and extensive partner network.
In fact that VMworld 2014 Europe we announced a number of new services as well as another new VMware new operated datacenter located in Germany.
This new central European location will help address German and EU compliance and data protection regulations and demonstrates our commitment to expand our hybrid cloud services around the world.
One of the exciting new services we announced is VMware vCloud Air Object Storage.
This is based on EMC ViPR technology that offers extremely scalable cost effective and durable storage for unstructured data.
We have also seen exciting progress with our end user computing business.
We unveiled VMware Workspace Suite which offers a single integrated portal to access VMware Horizon and AirWatch mobile and content management solutions and VMware Horizon.
The result is a unified experience across mobile and desktop devices but also provide a comprehensive management dashboard for IT.
We also acquired CloudVolumes a leading provider of real time application delivery technology that enables VMware Horizon 6 customers to lower their infrastructure and management cost while giving end users a more personalized experience.
Finally we also announced a series of new and expanded partnerships.
This included an agreement with SAP to deliver mobile security in a simplified user experience for mobile applications and a collaborative effort between VMware NVIDIA and Google to deliver high performance virtual desktops and workstation class graphics to Google Chromebooks.
In summary our business is growing.
We are confident in our strategy and our portfolio of ground breaking new technology is helping customers realize the dramatic benefits of a new software-defined model for IT.
I will now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q3.
Carl? Thank you Pat.
We remain pleased with the increasing breathe and growth of our new product offerings across all three of our business priorities the software-defined datacenter hybrid cloud and end user computing.
Customers continued to move from buying purely standalone vSphere to purchasing our sweet and additional products such as network virtualization.
We continue to transition from being a compute-virtualization company to a provider of a broad range of cloud infrastructure and mobile offerings.
We’re particularly pleased with the ongoing performance of our newest products such as NSX Network Virtualization Virtual SAN Storage Virtualization vCloud Air Hybrid Cloud and AirWatch mobility products.
Although these newest offerings are still small in relation to our overall business.
Operationally our global sales teams remain confident in selling our powerful lineup of solutions.
Our ELA business pipeline continues to remain strong.
Although deals are becoming more complex this reflects the fact that customers are choosing to include vCloud Suites and new emerging products as part of their ELAs.
As a result larger deals can take more time to put together as customers look to develop a more strategic partnership with us.
In general it was a challenging environment for large deals given the change and turbulence in the industry.
And we were not immune to this in Q3.
Even this and because a larger federal ELA that I mentioned in last quarter’s earnings call did not yet closed we had suspected a slightly stronger bookings profile for the third quarter.
Approximately 29% of total bookings were ELAs.
We closed three deals greater than $10 million in the quarter compared to five deals in Q3 last year which included our largest deal ever.
Meanwhile the channel enablement activities we have talked about previously continued to bear fruit.
This resulted in another quarter of improving transactional bookings.
Our renewal performance during the quarter was once again very strong.
Q3 was the highest ever in quarter renewal rate for support and our in-quarter renewal rate for ELAs also remained at near record levels.
The average term for support remained well above 24 months.
Moving to regional bookings performance we saw similar growth across all three geographies.
Overall bookings grew year-over-year in our Asia Pacific region despite continued softness in Japan.
We once again had solid growth in China which is in contrast with many of our peers.
While in EMEA bookings grew in Russia geopolitical tensions weighed on the bookings performance and we saw an over 50% decline year-over-year.
In a weak German economy we saw lower bookings than expected with our German sales leadership team now solidly in place we expect to see better bookings performance going forward.
Overall performance in the region was aided by strong execution in Southern Europe despite the challenging macro environment.
In the Americas as you all recall we were forecasting a strong federal performance driven by a particularly large ELA opportunity.
This larger ELA did not complete in the quarter which lead to a year-over-year decline in our federal business.
We continue to track this substantial opportunity.
Given all of this overall bookings in the Americas were up in line with the rest of the business but not as much as we were forecasting.
Taking a look at product groups end-user computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 60% year-over-year in Q3.
The core VMware salesforce in our channel are increasingly leveraging EUC and bringing the expanded portfolio of products to our enterprise customers.
Within end-user computing our desktop license bookings once again grew double digits year-over-year.
In addition we saw strong momentum from Horizon desktop as a service our cloud-based desktop service introduced in Q1.
AirWAtch had a very strong quarter and continued to build upon its leadership position.
We believe AirWatch increased its number one position in market share in enterprise mobile management and security.
We continued to accelerate our joined go-to-market efforts in brought deeper collaboration among the VMware and AirWatch salesforces.
Moving to cloud management.
Our cloud management platform continued to be an industry leader for cloud management and automation.
Our direct salesforce and the channel continued to work towards making the no naked vSphere vision a reality.
Greater than 75% of our vCloud Suite license bookings continued to be attached to ELAs.
Our cloud management penetration is now over 12% of our installed base leaving us plenty of room for growth.
A successful VMworld Barcelona brought announcements of a wave of new cloud management offerings and capabilities.
These include updates to VMware vRealize Suite 6 a cloud management platform purposely built for the hybrid cloud.
A major update of VMware vRealize operations and a beta launch of VMware vRealize air compliance a new addition to the VMware family of cloud management software as a service offerings.
Finally we extended our position in cloud management with our launch of vRealize Code Stream.
vRealize Code Stream will accelerate application releases and extend the agility provided by continuous integration to continuous delivery enabling frequent reliable software releases while reducing operational risk.
Now over 80% of our management suite is in its second generation of development enabling IT Managers to better and manage both modern application architectures as well as traditional three-tier business applications that are both deployed on premise or in the public cloud.
In addition we are well underway with our vSphere 6 public beta program which is receiving a great response and will make vSphere more and more appropriate for cloud-native applications with enhanced big data and Hadoop support.
Our network virtualization platform VMware NSX gained significant momentum once again in Q3.
We are extremely pleased with the bookings performance in the quarter as we saw successes across a wide variety of industries market segments and GEOs.
At the end of Q3 NSX had over 250 paying customers.
We were particularly pleased with the success of NSX in the US Federal sector in Q3 and we find it exciting that our US Federal government is rapidly adopting such a new technology.
At VMworld in San Francisco the team had over 11 000 attendees at NSX sessions and NSX was number one in terms of meeting request and hands-on lab participation.
Our customers are embracing the NSX solution not only as a network virtualization platform but as a network security one as well.
Our highly differentiated micro-segmentation capability is driving significant interest in our customer base.
With traction across all GEOs and verticals we are closing key architectural wins as customers look to transform their network operations in a similar way they did with compute through the use of vSphere and server virtualization.
Moving to Virtual SAN we couldn’t be more pleased with the products performance in its second quarter of availability.
We are seeing successes across a wide variety of industries market segments and GEOs.
In Q3 we saw a significant increase in Virtual SAN being sold through the channel.
Turning to Hybrid Cloud our vision of a hybrid cloud world is being adopted by customers as they increasingly seek to combine their on-premise investments with the best that the cloud has to offer.
We grew our hybrid cloud business over 80% year-over-year.
I am pleased to know we have continued to see significant momentum in our second quarter of offering vCloud Hybrid Service Disaster Recovery and early customer adoption has been extremely positive.
In Q3 we also announced expansion of our hybrid offering through vCloud Air OnDemand which is a new online channel helping us capture the secular move of workloads to [indiscernible] cloud-delivered models.
We continue to expand our global footprint by announcing in early access program in our first locations in Japan and Germany opening up our first vCloud Air location in New Jersey in collaboration with our partner Centrelink and announced to early access program for our vCloud government service in the US.
In Q3 we saw very strong PSO consulting bookings.
Our customers are looking to VMware more than ever for expertise and helping them deploy the software defined data center transition to the hybrid cloud and transformed their desktop in mobile environments.
We are seeing major Fortune 50 companies leverage VMware’s professional services as they move towards full deployment of a complete set of software defined data center deployments.
In summary when we look in particular at the performance of our newer technologies in the momentum we are seeing we had a solid Q3.
We’re continuing to invest and enabling our sales force and channel around our new growth products and see these market opportunities paying off in the coming quarters.
Our industry is going through a significant transformation as our customers shift to a software defined enterprise and a new model for our IT.
We are looking forward to helping our customers take advantage of this change through our technology leadership across our software defined data center hybrid cloud and user computing offerings.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thank you Carl.
We are pleased with our Q3 financial results exceeding the midpoint of our revenue guidance and exceeding non-GAAP operating margin guidance for the quarter.
Q3 total revenue was $1 515 000 000 $15 million above the midpoint of our guidance range and up 18% year-over-year.
License revenue of $639 million also exceeded the midpoint of our guidance and was up 13% year-over-year.
We also remain pleased with the increasing breadth and diversification of our business with non-standalone vSphere license bookings once again greater than 50% of total license bookings up for more than 40% in Q3 2013.
Specifically license and subscription bookings in these areas beyond standalone vSphere grew over 25% year-over-year.
We achieved this level of growth despite the softness in ELAs we experienced in Q3.
In addition we are capturing the market’s movement to hybrid cloud.
While our hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings including AirWatch vCloud Air vCloud Air Network and desktop as a service are relatively small components of our overall business today at just under 5% of our total revenues for Q3.
These offerings were up over 100% year-over-year in aggregate.
Moving on operating margin our Q3 non-GAAP operating margin was 30.4% significantly above our guidance.
This was due largely to higher revenues than originally planned.
Given the momentum we are seeing on our next generation products and the rapid changes in the market we expect to continue making investments in our newer business areas while maintaining clear leadership in key areas such as compute virtualization.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q3 was $0.87 on approximately 434 million shares.
Overall Q3 was a strong P&amp;L performance for the company and we are pleased with these results.
I’ll now focus on key additional highlights that will be helpful in understanding our Q3 performance.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash in short term investments are quarter end of $7.1 billion up 7% sequentially.
In Q3 our operating cash flow was $606 million and free cash flow was $506 million.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 400 000 shares of our stock for a total of $43 million at an average price of around $99 per share.
Total unearned revenue end of the quarter of $4.37 billion up 20% from Q3 2013 and of which $1.65 billion in long term up 17% year-over-year.
Approximately 89% of our unearned revenues will be recognized ratably over future quarters.
The unearned revenue mix is largely in line with prior periods and is primarily a reflection of our strong support business.
It’s important to note that the participation and renewal rates for our support business remain high and that customers enjoy significant ongoing value from VMware including all future product updates and upgrades.
In effect this model is a great combination of a perpetual license business with the ongoing revenues and cash flows associate with the services subscription to future upgrades and updates.
I’d encourage you to refer to the slides and financial tables accompanying this earnings call for further details on our results.
Now turning to guidance we are reaffirming the midpoint of full year 2014 revenue guidance at $6 020 000 000 with a range of between $6 billion and $6 040 000 000 representing year-over-year growth of between 15% and 16%.
Excluding Pivotal and Divestitures we continue to expect the midpoint of our 2014 total revenue growth to be approximately 17%.
We are also reaffirming the midpoint of full year 2014 license guidance at $2 590 000 000 with a range of between $2 580 000 000 and $2 600 000 000 or up 14% year over year.
Excluding Pivotal and Divestitures we continue to expect the midpoint of our 2014 license growth rate to be approximately 15%.
We continue to expect that non-GAAP operating margin for 2014 will be approximately 31%.
Moving on to operating cash flow for 2014 we expect operating cash flow of between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion.
This revised expectation now reflects a combination of three main items; firstly softer bookings including the ELA and federal bookings in Q3 Carl just described.
Secondly we expect to see increased cash tax payments as we continue to transition to being a net cash tax payer and third certain installment payments related to the acquisition of Air Watch will now be paid in cash over the course of 2014 rather than stock which we were originally considering.
As a reminder we continue to view the large government ELA as a substantial opportunity.
Finally we are reaffirming our expectation of approximately $350 million of CapEx for 2014.
Remaining guidance for 2014 is included in the slide deck posted on our investor relations website.
For Q4 2014 we expect total revenue to be between $1 670 000 000 and $1 710 000 000 up 13% to 15% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q4 are expected to be between $765 million and $785 million up 11% to 14% year over year.
Given the typical seasonal strength of Q4 we are expecting to build both license deferred and total deferred revenue but at a lower sequential dollar value increase as compared with last year.
We expect non-GAAP operating margin for Q4 to be approximately 33% to 34%.
This reflects our expectation of a strong seasonal quarter for revenues in Q4 and is consistent with our full year non-GAAP operating margin guidance I just provided.
And finally other income and expense is expected to be approximately $5 million in Q4.
In summary Q3’s revenue and operating profit results was strong and we were pleased with these results.
We saw a great progress in our mobility solutions from AirWatch our NSX networking products and in early stage returns from storage virtualization.
We also continue to see our overall hybrid cloud business do well.
These business areas are key elements of our long term strategy and we were pleased to see the results of our continued investments in these newer areas begin to pay off.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q-and-A I’ll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let’s get started.
Yes thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
And our first question comes from Brent Thill from UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon.
Carl and Jonathan when you talk about the softness you saw in the ELAs as we went into the year you talked about a pretty big pipeline so I guess I would just assume that the close rates were just lower than the pipeline still there and that you’re having competitively lots of these deals these deals have just slipped if you could add more color to that that’d be helpful.
Thanks Brent this is Pat and I’ll just start the Q-and-A session with a few comments as we get into it here.
You know overall you know our ELAs continue to demonstrate a strategic relationship of customers.
And clearly the breadth of the portfolio is demonstrating that and we really had an extraordinary response to that coming off of VMworld and that combined with our new growth products and the overall great financial performance we really do feel good about the quarter performance even as we discuss some of the areas that clear are opportunities for us going forward.
So Carl if you want to dive in a bit more.
Yes sure.
Brent I think you’re asking about Q3 bookings so let me say the following.
As is always the case we didn’t plan to be down sequentially from Q2 but we were expecting to have a bit stronger quarter in Q3 than we did from a bookings perspective.
I think there was actually a few things that led to the software bookings for us First we expected to have a strong quarter at – over our US Federal business.
As I mentioned last quarter we were tracking a rather large federal ELA to coincide with the government GRN.
And this opportunity did not close in the quarter but I can tell you we’re still actively engaged with the government and this is an opportunity in our pipeline going forward.
We also saw some markets not perform as we had expected specifically Russia Japan and Germany I mentioned in my opening comments.
And anytime you have these very large markets in both EMEA and APJ not performing it makes it difficult for the overall regions to have a really good bookings quarter.
And I’d say we are seeing some of our larger ELAs become more complex.
This is because customers actually are interested in all of our solutions.
As customers look to deploy the full Software-Defined Data Center architecture and look to leverage things like the Hybrid Cloud and even AirWatch we’re seeing our larger ELAs take a bit more time to close.
And we actually do this as a very positive thing as we are encouraged that our customers are looking to VMware as a strategic partner for their future needs.
And lastly Brent I would say it’s important to note we don’t believe we’re actually losing any of the deals right in a given quarter necessarily to the competition.
Our customers are very loyal to us and they continue to look to us as one of their most strategic technology partners.
And I will just kind of refer back to Q3 from last year I think in a year-over-year basis it was a more difficult compare.
We had five deals greater than $10 million last year in Q3 which included our largest deal ever.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please.
Yes.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Kash Rangan from Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
If you look at the international versus US growth rate I mean that delta has widened quite a bit the last few quarters.
I think Q1 you had about equal growth rate 14% in each geography.
I think this quarter it was 27% US and in international it was a high single digit.
I just wanted to compare and contrast that comment vis-a-vis your characterization that America’s bookings were just in line of the overall because it would seem like something was more weighted towards US.
And also Jonathan I wasn’t sure if I missed – maybe I missed if you reiterated that calendar ‘15 guidance which you provided at the Analyst Day.
Thank you.
Well you could have asked me about foreign exchange there Kash but you want 2015 instead.
So specifically – don’t forget that revenue is coming off the balance sheet.
And so for the mix of international and domestic revenues in particular it’s really reflecting how certain transactions ended up getting recognized and as they satisfied certain rev rec criteria.
So in Q3 in particular we had a larger deferral but ended up getting recognized and the conditions around the revenue deferral got satisfied.
And that led to a slightly higher mix or – a little bit higher mix of deferred domestic revenues than you’re referring to separate from the conversation that Carl was referring to with respect to our overall US bookings and all bookings specifically versus revenues.
And then with respect to 2015 I didn’t bring it up because I felt we covered it in quite some detail at the Analyst Day.
And so at this point we’re just referring you back to that framework that we provided in August.
And as you know we’re going into our seasonally stronger Q4.
As I mentioned a couple of months ago we’re seeing a number of our newer products perform quite well.
But they are smaller dollars and we want to see another quarter or so of performance before we give you formal guidance for 2015 and that’s what we’re committed to do in January.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please.
Yes.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Walter Prichard from Citibank.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
So Kash didn’t ask this so I will.
On the currency front Jonathan could you walk us through the impact during the quarter what you’re thinking in terms of impact for Q4? And then I know you’re not providing a specific range for next year but as we’re looking at next year as I know your maintenance sort of rolls through and has a delayed impact on effects could you talk about how we should be thinking about currency in that period? Yes sure.
Thanks very much Walter.
So the key thing to know is that for our business about 75% or slightly over of our billings are in US dollars.
I’m not so sure that’s universally understood.
We’re actually insulated at least in terms of reporting and the US report was somewhat insulated from the net effect.
Our deferred revenue on the balance sheet is also reported in over a quarter than US dollars.
So with a combination of 75% of billings being in USD around the world and our deferred also coming off the balance sheet in US dollars we had a slight slight headwind sequentially to revenue in Q3.
And we had a modest benefit in OpEx and because of translation of Euro costs and other non-USD nominated currency.
So net effect in Q3 top line very very modestly impacted.
And EPS was impacted positively probably to the tune of about half a penny or so.
Now as I go forward into 2 000 in earned deferred in Q3 report probably impacted negatively to the tune of about $5 million to $10 million in Q3 specifically.
So it’s lower deferred build on the balance sheet at the end of Q3 due to foreign exchange.
So those are two significant set of impacts because of the way we bill our customers and partners.
As we go into 2 000 – as we go into Q4 obviously not in the business of forecasting currency movements but if the currency rates stay roughly the same position they’re in today we’re estimating about a $10 million headwind to revenues.
And that is incorporated into the guidance I shared with you for Q4 specifically.
There is also potentially a further negative impact on year-over-year deferred revenue build in Q4 if currency stays the same.
But we’ll update you more on that in about 90 days’ time also when we do Q4.
But hopefully that helps you think about it in terms of Q3 and Q4 impact.
Thank you Walter.
Next question please.
Yes thank you.
It comes from Phil Winslow from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
And I appreciate the color that you guys provided from a geographic perspective in terms of Q3.
But as you guys contemplated your Q4 guidance I wonder if you could help us get a sense for what you baked on in terms of sort of the geographies whether you’re seeing strength or weakness from the pipeline and just sort of how you thought about conversion rates in terms of the pipeline for this Q4 guidance maybe versus how you’ve done in prior quarters.
Thanks.
Thanks Phil.
This is Carl I’ll take that one.
So as you could imagine as we go into every quarter we take a look at our pipeline.
And based on our pipeline heading into Q4 and the conversion rates we’ve applied against it we baked that into the guidance that we provided for Q4 and we have confidence as we head into what is always out seasonally strongest quarter.
Did you want to say anything about the GOs in Q3 just to – I’m sorry.
I can yes.
I provided some color on the GOs in my prepared remarks.
In the US we said we had some headwinds because of our federal performance in the Americas specifically around our ELA business.
In EMEA we said we saw some softness in bookings from both Germany and Russia.
I don’t think anyone’s immune right now to what’s happening in Russia.
And as far as Germany goes I think we’re starting to see some economic headwinds.
And I have talked about in the past that we have upgraded our talent in Germany and we have a solid team now on board and I’m very bullish on their ability to lead that region going forward.
And then as I look at APJ I indicated that Japan once again was soft for us.
And obviously Japan being one of the largest markets in APJ if that’s down it’s tough for the quarter to have strong bookings.
But other areas in APJ that were strong for us were Australia New Zealand and India.
Thank you Phil.
Next question please.
Yes thank you.
The next question is from Raimo Lenschow from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
And thanks for the clarification on the currency.
A quick question I had is like can you talk a little bit about what you see in the NSX pipeline? Obviously since the summer your general sales versus pushing it as well what are you seeing in terms of their ability to get it into the accounts and communicate with the clients there? Thank you.
Yes.
Thanks Raimo.
I’ll start and turn it over to Carl.
Overall our NSX response is really accelerating.
And in Q2 we talked about the 150 customers breaking 100 million run rate.
And in my Q3 comments 250 customers now paying on the platform and we really see that acceleration of customer adoption.
We have enormous momentum as we go into Q4 in that regard.
So we feel like we really have as we indicated last quarter turned the corner in this strategic value.
And the used cases like microsegmentation are really capturing the industry’s attention as very rapid ways to adopt network virtualization get immediate benefit without a massive network re-architecting.
But now that we are in the account we start to harvest the whole set of additional used cases beyond that first microsegmentation used case.
So we are feeling very encouraged by the adoption that we are seeing even though it really is more material in 2015.
Carl what do you think he asked there [ph]? I think – yes.
You covered the used cases well.
We’re seeing a couple different used cases as Pat indicated first for network agility and the provisioning of layer two through seven services and this microsegmentation used cases is very much resonating with our customers and is one of the biggest if you will used cases for NSX.
I’d also just like to state straight right that I’ve been extremely pleased with our sales force’s ability to understand network virtualization and network security and we are seeing our sales force very quickly build a robust pipeline as we head into 2015 around NSX.
And also our channel is starting to evolve.
And in just last quarter it was the first quarter we even had NSX on our prices for our channel to sell.
So I’m extremely encouraged with our ability to transition our sales force to be able to sell NSX AS part of the software defined data center.
And as Pat said we find some really good used cases that our customers are starting to leverage and use to deploy the platform.
Thank you Raimo.
Next question please.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I just want to follow up to Kash’s question.
You referred to your comments that VMware’s analyst today as a framework for 2015.
And I think a lot of us at least probably based on all of our inboxes think that that was a guidance range.
So in light of what your comments are about the microenvironment and the current P headwinds I guess it would be very helpful to just know if you guys are standing by what I believe your phrase was is that that was mid-teens revenue growth was what you were expecting for calendar ‘15.
Thanks.
Yes.
Heather this is Jonathan.
That framework you can term that as guidance if you like but that framework we provided was just actually that.
And I think I was pretty clear at that point that we’ll come back and give you more explicit guidance in all the glory detail in January.
Again just to repeat the rationale for that it’s we see an opportunity.
We talked about our total addressable market but we’re going into our seasonality strongest quarter now.
I mean just exited our second seasonally weakest Q3 we need to see how Q4 plays out.
We have a portfolio of new products that can and are contributing moving forward but many are newer and they require more data.
So each quarter that goes by provides additional insights as the likely performance over the next year so we’re obviously highly optimistic of them.
Given Q3 also right now we’re watching ELA close rates carefully.
So what we’re doing is we’re sticking to what we said a couple of months ago by providing 2015 guidance on the Q4 call as we indicated in FAD.
So no change is how I would think about it.
Thank you Heather.
Next question please.
Yes.
It comes from Rick Sherlund from Nomura.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick uncertainty.
This Double Irish tax EMA [ph] exposure there and if you could touch on what’s driving the acceleration and the services business and any more light you can she on this federal contract is this a renewal ELA or a new ELA and if you can give us a sense of what might the issue be there.
Rick we’re actually limiting to one question please.
So would you just pick the one that you’d prefer? The services business.
Nice topic Rick.
I’ll to give you an update on the Irish tax if you want to pick one of the...
Yes.
The services business if you would then please the acceleration that you’re seeing in that business.
Why don’t you do that Pat? So on the Irish tax situation obviously we’ve all been tracking that carefully and understanding what’s going on.
As you know we do pay tax influence [ph] more relevant laws and regulations which is what you’d expect.
We’re a global company.
We have many many jurisdictions we’re operating in.
We do have operations in island as we disclosed in our 10-Q and 10-K.
We’re obviously currently analyzing all the changes that are being proposed in the Irish tax law.
If no immediate changes no immediate impact to us as you know because they’re not effective until 2020.
And there’s a number of companies who are going to be affected by those changes and I think we have plenty of time to plan for them.
So I’ll just leave it at that at this point.
Yes.
And as I relate to cloud services and professional service I’m going to split that up with myself and Pat Rick if that’s okay.
So let me take the professional services.
I had highlighted in my prepared remarks because we’re actually really encouraged that our customers are looking to VMware not just for our technology but our intellectual property on how to stand up some of these new software defined data center architectures.
And in the quarter we had some various sizeable winds where Fortune 50 companies have come to us too in particular one of financial services company the other are pharmaceutical company have come to us and asked for our help in standing up a new Greenfield software defined data center to help them migrate their legacy workloads in new platform 3 workloads on to this new architecture.
So we’re really encouraged that our customers are coming to us both technologically speaking and also for our services intellectual property.
And I’d like to ask Pat to talk a little bit more about cloud services.
Yes.
I would say on the cloud services area that we’re actually feeling very encouraged by our ability to capture our customer’s workloads as well as new service offerings for our overall cloud service portfolio.
We’re seeing that in our vCloud Air network we’re seeing that with AirWatch new services like our desktop as a service and overall these clearly are growth opportunities for us that come with a different business profile and ratable revenue model which is included in our understanding of our business going forward.
Seeing that 100% year-on-year growth and now at approximately 5% that this is becoming a more meaningful portion of our business.
And you will see us speak more specifically in guide for 2015 about this aspect of the business as well.
But this was an encouraging quarter for us not just in our new product areas but in the new cloud services area as a portion of our business.
Thank you.
Thank you Rick.
Next question please.
Yes and it comes from Matt Hedberg from RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks for taking my questions guys.
As a follow-up to an earlier one you talked about a strong pipeline for NSX.
And I wanted to continue to invest in new businesses such as that.
I’m wondering if you could sort of quantify how supply and constraint the NSX business is in terms of the sales force and how are you going to address getting a solution that seems petty revolutionary out there and sort of building a full stack sales force that can sell and implement it? Yes.
So let me take that one Matt.
So about a year ago we started to build a special sales force of both sales reps and system engineers pre-sale system engineers to address this opportunity around NSX and network virtualization.
And we are so far very encouraged with not only the specials [ph] organization but I mentioned earlier about our sales force our core sales force being able to at least recognize opportunities around network virtualization and things like microsegmentation.
I think it’s also to note and Pat mentioned a little bit of this in his prepared remarks that we in a very short amount of time had built a very robust ecosystem around NSX with partners like Palo Alto Networks F5 Arista and a number of other networking security companies.
So it’s not just VMware sales force that are specialists this to market but we’re taking it to market in conjunction with an extremely rich set of ecosystem partners and we are very encouraged with the pipeline build as I mentioned earlier and the ability of both our sales force in our ecosystem to be able to articulate how powerful this platform is around network virtualization.
Thank you Matt.
Next question please.
Yes.
Abhey Lamba from Mizuho Securities.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
Carl just you mentioned about that you’re still working on the large deal and the frontend vertical [ph].
Can you give us some dynamics somewhat decision process or what’s holding that up? And what can you do to overcome that and similarly the deals in Europe that did not close just general by plan [ph] and what needs to happen for them to close? Sure.
Let me start with the federal ELA that I shared with you during last quarter’s conference call and then again this quarter because I indicated it didn’t close.
Any time you’re dealing with the government and the deal of this magnitude the transaction can have a lot of variability in when it actually will close.
I would say this specific opportunity had nothing to do with our sales execution in the quarter.
We continue to work extremely close and active with the government on this opportunity that remains in our pipeline as we head into Q4.
And we’re very encouraged overall not only with this opportunity but with our federal business as a whole.
As it relates to Europe again I think we had quite a solid quarter in Europe even despite a couple of regions like in Germany in Russia now performing at the level we hadn’t anticipated.
We did strength in Europe in Southern Europe specifically.
If you look at French which has been battling their own economic challenges we had a really solid quarter.
So in Europe I think we had a good quarter and I didn’t see a lot of large ELA slip from one quarter to the next.
Thank you.
Thank you Abhey.
Next question please.
Yes.
Rajesh Ghai from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks.
Carl I wanted to dig into your comment earlier that given your wider product portfolio ELA is more complex and taking longer to close.
Can you tell us how much longer the sales cycles have become? And if you are taking any steps to potentially to use the complexity of deals and potentials rather than sales cycle and related to that what sort of ELA close rates are you assuming in your Q4 guidance? Thank you.
Yes.
So I think there was multiple questions in there but let me try to work through that.
So first of all our ELA pipeline remains solid as we head into Q4 which obviously where we took into account in our guidance.
In Q3 I had indicated some of the larger ELAs and specifically net new ELAs are taking a bit longer to close because of the complexity of not just VMware but the customer introducing the desire to have all of our products as part of the ELA not just on premise solutions like the software defined data center architecture and vCloud Suites but also interested in vCloud Air so that they can build an insurance policy into their agreements with us to leverage the public cloud in the future.
We coming out of Q3 have done a couple of things to make sure we’re tracking ELA close rates to determine whether in Q3 this was a specific issue within a given quarter or if we see a bigger trend around ELA close rates.
And as we monitor that throughout Q4 we’ll take all of that into context when we think about guidance going forward.
Thank you Rajesh.
Next question please.
Yes.
It comes from Keith Weiss from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks from the – thank you guys for taking the question.
I want to ask you about license billing because I know we all calculate going off of the income statement and the balance sheet.
And I know that bookings and billings have some variability.
But when we calculated we come up with a highest single digit 7% to 8% type of license billings growth versus what we had in a solid mid–teens growing the first half of the year; anything in particular that would be sort of impacting that calculation or is it just sort of reflection of that weaker billings – or weaker ELA billings at the quarter? Yes.
I think that’s it.
So just to build on Carl’s commentary it really is a reflection of bookings fundamentally.
It’s hard to build a third if the bookings don’t come in overall.
But I think Carl has talked about it in a couple of different in his prepared remarks and also overall.
We are seeing signs of significant growth and a number of the new product areas but they’re not just big enough yet to have an impact.
And obviously with a larger federal deal not transparent in this particular quarter while it remains an opportunity obviously has an impact on license billings growth.
Carl did point out and I’ll just reiterate it.
But this time last year as well was a particularly strong license billings number as well as you all calculate maybe because we had a largest deal ever report in Q3 plus we have five ELAs compared to three ELAs this quarter.
So there’s a number of different factors in there.
But fundamentally it’s the same reasons that Carl outlined for you.
Thank you Keith.
Next one – Got it.
Yes.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Yes.
Mark Moerdler from Sanford Bernstein.
Thank you very much.
So drilling in a little more into the ELAs we discuss that – as we’ve already talked about a little bit that you seemed to delay to their adding more products into the mix.
Is this translating into the ELA total dollar value of the deals going up in the pipeline as they take longer or is the new deals bigger than they were before? Yes.
So again and when we think about – suddenly just one comment I didn’t make earlier that relates to ELAs.
In the quarter we said we had a very good ELA renewal rates.
So our ELAs that came up for renewal within Q3 we were very good at renewing them in a given quarter net new ELAs because they do include a lot of new products right are taking a bit longer.
When we look at the ELAs that we do renew their roughly in line with the size and scope of the ELA that we had closed initially.
So some of them can be larger some of them can be smaller; it really just depends on where the customers is at in the adoption of their technology that they had from the original ELA.
Thank you Mark.
Next and I think the last question please.
Okay.
And that comes from Michael Turits from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hey Michael Turits.
Thank you.
So you reduce your cash flow guidance cost by about $400 million the top end and the bottom.
Can you give us some sense of how much of that was from the increase cash tax payments and the installment payment side AirWatch versus the bookings impact? And should those other two factors are reverse as we go into ‘15? Yes.
Michael that’s a great question.
So I would say just over half of the adjustment that you have heard us talk about is due to bookings over Q3 and the back off the year including the slippage of the particularly large federal opportunity.
And the remainder just on the half is due to the other two factors I mentioned.
You’ll see a – if everything goes as planned you’ll see a fairly large tax payment in the Q4 period in the cash flow as we continue to transition to a cash taxpayer.
We paid almost roughly small amounts if any cash taxes over the last few years as we’ve utilized NOLs Net Operating Losses since the time of the IPO.
And we’re clearly fully in that transition now to be a cash taxpayer that will impact the Q4.
And obviously you should expect us to be a cash taxpayer going forward.
And then the second item I mentioned was the AirWatch acquisition related payments which we actually have the options to pay in either cash or stock and as we’ve evaluated uses of cash over the course of the back half of this year we’re anticipating paying in cash.
But a quick to answer your question is just over half is bookings.
So thank you all for your time and attention in the call today.
In summary we’re making good progress across all three of our strategic priorities.
I want to thank our customers our partners and employees for the passion support and engagement as we look forward to finish a very strong 2014.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation.
That conclude today’s conference call.
You may disconnect.
Welcome and thank you for standing by.
[Operator Instructions].
And I will turn the meeting over to Mr.
Paul Ziots Vice President Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMWare's fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from www.ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding revenues in each period attributable to the products and services contributed to pivotal software and the products and services associated with divestitures consummated by VMware in 2013.
On this call today we may make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks of VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute or an isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based composition amortization of acquired intangible assets employer payroll tax and employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software certain litigation and other related items acquisition related items and realignment net gains and charges.
As mentioned we have presented historical data for revenue and unearned revenue excluding pivotal in all 2013 divestures.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our first quarter 2015 quiet period begins at the close of business March 13 2015.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2013.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
We're very pleased with our team's performance during 2014.
Our total revenue for the full 2014 fiscal year was a record $6.35 billion up 16% year-over-year and surpassing the $6 billion for the first time.
This was at the high-end of the guidance we provided at the beginning of the year.
Our Non-GAAP operating margin for 2014 was 31.1% just exceeding the guidance we provided at this time last year.
We are particularly pleased with our sustained strong growth in the context of the industry disruption affecting businesses around the world.
Customers continue to partner with us because we offer a new model for IT designed to rapidly and automatically deliver any app anywhere without sacrificing their vital needs for security availability and compliance.
Over the course of 2014 we delivered the revenue and operating margin performance we said we would while also introducing an unparalleled portfolio of new products and services that will drive our growth in the future.
Key milestones during the year include closing the AirWatch acquisition the continued expansion of vCloud Air across the U.S.
EMEA and APJ introduction of Virtual SAN and the launch of EVO RAIL our hyper converged infrastructure appliance.
Adoption of our newer products and services including NSX AirWatch Cloud Management Virtual SAN and vCloud Air is growing rapidly and enjoying significant customer momentum.
We're also seeing more customer interest in the value offered by the complete federation solutions.
Our customers are operating in a business environment where disruption has become the norm and old rigid business models are melting away.
They are increasingly looking to software defined infrastructure and new applications as the basis for business innovation that outsmarts their competitors.
This requires a new model for IT that customer see VMware as uniquely being able to deliver.
Our software defined platform enables customers to instantly deploy and manage their applications operate their workloads and data seamlessly between their private and public clouds rapidly architect cloud native apps with our support for containers and support our range of management options with VMware integrated OpenStack along with VMware's best of breed custom APIs.
Customer momentum and adoption continues to build across all areas of our software defined data center portfolio.
2014 has been a particularly impressive year for our network virtualization solution VMware NSX.
We have seen a rapid increase in its production use with more than 400 paying customers up 60% quarter-over-quarter.
In the first half of 2014 we appeared in Gartner's Data Center Networking Magic Quadrant farthest on the completeness of vision access in this space the first time a software vendor has ever been included in this magic quadrant.
We continue to see momentum with partners like Palo Alto Networks which is working with VMware to enable customers to apply the same rigid security policies across their entire infrastructure consistently for all applications whether virtual physical on premises or off premises.
Additional strategic relationships announced include those with risk to networks F5 Dell and HP.
We are pleased to say that NSX bookings more than doubled in the second half of 2014 compared to the first half as customers look to take advantage of the unique benefits possible only through virtual networking.
At VMworld 2014 we announced EVO RAIL a hyper converged appliance which provides customers with an extraordinarily fast and efficient way to build and deploy a software defined data center.
We are seeing strong interest in this new category and in Q4 we announced three additional qualified EVO RAIL partners NetApp HP and Hitachi data systems bringing our total partners to nine.
We also announced the availability of powerful vRealize cloud management solutions which simplify and automate how IT is managed and help customers deliver IT as a service.
In addition vRealize air automation and vRealize air compliance extend these solutions to an as a service model via vCloud Air.
Speaking of vCloud Air VMware continues to rapidly expand the global footprint of the vCloud Air hyper cloud platform most recently to Australia and Germany with these new service locations opening in the first half of 2015.
These new locations follow the introduction of vCloud Air to Asia last year through our partnerships with Soft Bank Group in Japan and China Telecom Corporation in China.
This global expansion is complemented by a rich set of new service offerings including three new services we announced last week.
The second generation of our very well received vCloud Disaster Recovery.
New advanced networking services allowing secure and seamless extension of the private data center to vCloud Air.
And the general availability of vCloud Air Virtual Private Cloud on demand providing customers simple credit card provisioning and extreme flexibility to consume and pay for only those research they use.
As we approach the one year anniversary of AirWatch joining the VMware family it's great to see our growth and momentum go from strength to strength.
We recently surpassed the record 15 000 customers globally nearly double our closest competitor.
Our leadership position is recognized by key industry analyst with Gartner positioning us for the second year in a row furthest on the abilities to execute access in the enterprise mobility management quadrant.
In their latest vendor rating of VMware published this month Gartner upgraded our overall end user computing efforts to their highest rating strong positive.
We believe this is based on the strength of our upgraded EUC management team strong vision in the market and superior innovation both organic and inorganic.
Next week we will be hosting over 20 000 customers at our biggest launch event for the year when we unveil some exciting new products and services and cover updates through our hybrid cloud strategy.
We hope you will be able to join us online.
You can sign up by going to VMware.com/now and you will also find the link highlighted in the slides accompanying today's presentation.
In summary our business is growing.
We are confident in our strategy and our portfolio of groundbreaking new technologies is helping customers realize the dramatic benefits of a new software defined model for IT.
I'll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q4.
Carl? Thank you Pat.
I'm very proud of our performance in Q4 and 2014.
In each quarter we delivered consistently against our revenue and operating margin guidance as we have done in every quarter since mid-2009.
Our level of execution over a sustained period of time is a true testament to the tremendous value of our offerings in the commitment and dedication of our employees and our extensive partner ecosystem.
Taking a look at our regional bookings performance in Q4 we had the most balanced performance across all geographies of the year.
Once again overall license bookings performance in an media was aided by strong execution in the southern region.
Also as expected we experienced better bookings performance in Germany with our new sales leadership team now solidly in place.
In APJ we saw a particularly strong performance out of Greater China and Australia in Q4.
We closed the second largest APJ deal ever in Australia which was driven primarily by vCloud Suite and management products.
In relative terms Japan remain soft but was much improved as compared to last two quarters and we believe is on track for a solid 2015.
The Americas had a solid quarter powered by strong execution.
We saw strength in our enterprise segment and continued improvement in our transactional business led by vSphere with operations management.
Q4 was our strongest quarter of the year for ELAs.
As we expected the mix of ELA bookings was seasonally high and approximately the same level as in Q4 of 2013.
For the quarter 39% of our bookings were from ELAs and we closed seven deals over $10 million.
We did see some enterprise customers use end of year funds in Q4 which allowed us to accelerate a few larger deals.
Our large deals are increasingly including more components of the software defined data center as we continue to increase the strategic value our customers rely on from VMware.
One of the largest transactions in Q4 was a federation wide software defined data center win with a major financial services company.
This solution included the VMware software defined data center stack the VCEV box [ph] EMC ViPR software defined storage Pivotal and our joint professional services offerings.
Cloud management saw solid license bookings growth in Q4 helped by strong double-digit year-over-year growth from vSphere with operations management.
In addition our latest release of vRealize operation has been well received by our customers since it became generally available in Q4.
Our cloud management penetration is now 14% of our install base up from over 12% last quarter leaving plenty of headroom for growth.
End-user computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 60% year-over-year in Q4 with several key workspace suite wins.
As it relates to our desktop business we believe that we continue to gain market share against the competition and our recent acquisition app volumes which contribute to several key wins creates even further it differentiation in our desktop portfolio.
Specific to AirWatch our customer count increased to over 15 000 in Q4 and bookings were over $200 million in 2014 which we believe makes us the clear number one in the enterprise mobile management space.
When we acquired AirWatch last year we expected the integration into VMware to accelerate its growth through three key areas of leverage.
Week from VMware's global presence leverage from our robust channel and access to enterprise accounts via our sales force.
In Q4 we clearly saw all three of these leverage points start to kick in.
As Pat mentioned 2014 was a particularly impressive year for our network virtualization solution VMware NSX.
We have seen a rapid increase in its production use with more than 400 paying customers up 60% quarter-over-quarter.
We are pleased to say that NSX bookings more than doubled in the second half of 2014 as compared to the first half and we are now at well over a $200 million annual bookings run-rate.
In addition nine of VMware's Top 10 Q4 deals contained NSX.
I want to particularly highlight our first $10 million all NSX deal with a large global investment bank.
This globally recognized bank is transforming its operations and expects NSX to drive far more utilization out of their data centers.
The firm will use NSX to improve application provisioning times dramatically increase hardware efficiency and improve it's security with micro-segmentation.
We also closed a large NSX deal with one of the largest system integrator and outsourcers in the world which is building network virtualization offerings based on VMware's NSX technology.
We are extremely pleased with our NSX performance this year driven by the simplicity of deploying a software only networking solution.
We continue to see increasing production use of NSX and as we finish 2014 it's clear that network virtualization has moved past the early adoption phase and we're seeing broad industry momentum.
Turning to vSan during the first three quarters of vSan sales we saw rapid uptake of more than 1000 paying customers already utilizing the platform.
We are seeing adoption across a wide variety of industries market segments and geos.
We were pleased with the broad channel participation in the business we saw strong Q4 transaction growth quarter-over-quarter and we closed a sizable deal with a large grocery chain that is deploying vSan into all of their stores.
It is also important to remember vSan is a key component driving our hyper converged infrastructure solution EVO RAIL a first of it's kind in the industry built on the VMware software stack and delivering the software defined data center promise in an efficient predictable and cost-effective way.
Turning to hybrid cloud I'm pleased to note we continue to see the desiccant momentum in our vCloud Air and vCloud Air network offerings.
In 2014 we established a very strong position in the hybrid cloud a new segment within the public cloud market with thousands of customers and a growing set of service offerings we are clearly building significant momentum in this new market.
In Q4 we closed a large vCloud Air deal with one of the largest pharmaceutical companies looking to shift their current on premise infrastructure to a hybrid model that allows them to dramatically improve time to market at a fraction of the cost of their current environment.
VCloud Air enabled this agility and these cost savings while helping the customer address the security concerns of both HIPAA and high-tech compliance.
In addition vCloud Air allowed them to take their test and development environment to the public cloud and bring it back to their private cloud as they needed it and when they needed it.
In summary we’re very pleased with the strength of our results in Q4 and throughout 2014.
VMware is well placed at the center of the transformation taking place in the IT industry and we could not be more excited about our portfolio of new disruptive technologies that will liberate our customers from the constraints of old hardware based traditional models of IT.
I would like to thank our customers partners and employees for their passion in engagement throughout 2014.
As we begin 2015 we are looking forward to providing our customers with extraordinary unparalleled value through the strongest portfolio of VMware products services and solutions in our history.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thank you Carl.
We're very pleased with our Q4 and 2014 results meeting or exceeding our revenue and operating margin expectations for the quarter and the year.
Before I go into detail on Q4 and guidance for 2015 I want to summarize how we performed in 2014.
12 months ago we provided guidance for the full year each and every quarter we did what we said we were going to do according to the revenue and operating margin plan we laid out.
I'm proud of how the VMware team executed in 2014.
Over the course of the last two years we have significantly increased the diversification of our business.
License bookings beyond standalone vSphere are now greater than 55% of total license bookings up from greater than 30% just two years ago.
License bookings beyond standalone vSphere grew nearly 40% year-over-year in Q4.
This progress clearly demonstrates that VMware successfully transitioned to a wide range of products enabling the entire software defined enterprise.
For 2014 non-GAAP operating margin just exceeded our annual guidance of 31% and reflected a seasonably strong Q4 margin of 33.3% as we continue to invest aggressively for future growth.
Our hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings represented just under 5% of our Q4 total revenues and a growth rate of over 100% year-over-year in Q4.
Hybrid cloud and SaaS revenues are now expected to grow faster than we originally anticipated and I will talk about how this impacts guidance in a few minutes.
Turning to our performance this quarter Q4 license revenues were $777 million up 13% year-over-year.
Q4 license revenue growth was adversely impacted by approximately 3 percentage points year-over-year due to currency.
Q4 total revenues were $1.7 billion up 15% year-over-year and were also adversely impacted by currency by approximately 1 percentage point year-over-year.
I'll talk more about the expected impact of currency in 2015 when discussing guidance shortly.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q4 was $1.08 per share on approximately 433 million shares and as planned continue to reflect the dilutive effect of the acquisition of AirWatch early in 2014.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 2.95 million shares of stock for a total of $250 million at an average price of around $85 per share.
For the full year we repurchased approximately 7.6 million shares for a total cash outlay of approximately $700 million at an average price of approximately $92 per share.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $7.1 billion up 15% from Q4 2013.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $4.8 billion up 18% from Q4 2013 and of which $1.9 billion is long-term up 21% year-over-year.
Turning to guidance I'll first point out that we expect a couple of unusual items to impact our revenue growth rate for 2015.
As most of you know currency is not normally a sizable impact to VMware.
However in Q4 approximately 70% of our billings were in U.S.
dollars and with the dollar reaching a multiyear high with respect to most currencies in 2014 we're not immune from the impact of the dollar appreciation.
With this in mind for the full year 2015 we anticipate currency to have an approximately 2 percentage point negative impact of total revenue growth and an approximately 3 percentage point negative impact to license revenue growth.
We’re likely to see an even greater impact on quarterly bookings in future periods as well especially in the first half of 2015 even assuming no additional strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
For the purposes of guidance we are applying an average U.S.
dollar to euro rate of 1.18.
In addition as I mentioned earlier an increasing percentage of our revenue is being driven by hybrid cloud and SaaS revenues which are growing at a very high rate.
While this is a positive development for VMware it also has the impact of recognizing less revenue upfront than otherwise will be recognized as part of a multiyear license deal.
We estimate that this will have a negative impact on total 2015 revenue growth of up to 1 percentage point and on license revenue growth of at least 2 percentage points.
Taken together the impact of a stronger dollar and the growth of hybrid cloud and SaaS are expected to reduce our 2015 total revenues by approximately 3 percentage point of growth and are expected to reduce our 2015 license revenues by approximately 5 percentage points of growth from what we would otherwise report.
With that as background we currently expect total revenues for 2015 to be between $6.640 billion and $6.760 billion or up 10% to 12% year-over-year.
To be clear without the effect of currency and the impact of our going hybrid cloud and SaaS business total revenues for 2015 would otherwise be expected to grow 13% to 15% year-over-year.
License revenues for the full year are expected to be between $2.735 billion and $2.815 billion or up 6% to 9% year-over-year.
Without the effect of currency in the impact of our growing hybrid cloud and SaaS businesses license revenues for 2015 would otherwise be expected to grow 11% to 14% year-over-year.
For 2015 we expect full-year non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 31.5% which balances some margin expansion against continued investment in our growth businesses.
As a reminder we are planning for AirWatch to be EPS neutral exiting the fourth quarter of 2015.
However this plan continues to imply a dilutive effect from AirWatch on overall margins throughout 2015.
We continue to see the opportunity to invest in our various new products and we intend to manage spending accordingly.
We also are expecting the cash flow from operations will be approximately $2 billion.
There are three key factors to take into account when thinking about cash flows in 2015.
Firstly we're expecting cash taxes to be approximately $350 million incrementally higher by approximately $135 million in 2015.
Secondly we're currently forecasting AirWatch acquisition related payments of approximately $185 million an increase of approximately $100 million and finally currency impacts will negatively impact our cash flows by approximately $80 million.
Taken together these three items represent a headwind to 2015 operating cash flows of approximately $315 million or 14 percentage points of growth year-over-year.
To be very clear with the possible expression of foreign exchange these items will not present the same headwind to cash flow growth rates beyond 2015.
Finally with respect to the full-year view as we mentioned we are seeing significant momentum in our newer product areas.
We believe it's an opportune time to expand our buyback program and are increasing our share buyback goal compared to recent years.
As a result we expect to repurchase at least $1 billion of stock in 2015 compared with the approximately $700 million repurchased in 2014.
While it's difficult to predict exactly what the effect of this will be in 2015 we are currently modeling a share count of between 429 million and 433 million shares for the year and a non-GAAP EPS range of between $3.96 and $4.04 per share.
For Q1 2015 the negative impact of foreign exchange is currently expected to be around 1 percentage point on total revenue growth and approximately 3 percentage points on license revenue growth.
For Q1 2015 we expect total revenue to be between $1.490 billion and $1.510 billion or up 10% to 11% year-over-year.
Adjusting for currency total revenues for Q1 2015 are expected to increase 11% to 12% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q1 are expected to be between $570 million to $580 million or up to 2% to 3% year-over-year.
Adjusting for currency license revenues for Q1 2015 are expected to increase 5% to 6% year-over-year.
For Q1 we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 29.5% and non-GAAP EPS of between $0.83 and $0.85.
To assist you with your models I'll make a couple of comments regarding revenue and non-GAAP operating margins seasonality in 2015.
Given the significant currency market movements over the past few months and the product transitions that we've been highlighting for a number of quarters we see the first half of 2015 growing at a lower rate than the second half.
This means we expect a slightly lower revenue growth rate in the first half 2015 and expect growth to be higher in the second half of 2015.
Further as with 2014 we expect our operating margin performance to reach a seasonably strong high in the fourth quarter and to be seasonally lowest in Q1.
We encourage you to model the year accordingly as to take into account our full-year and first quarter guidance.
Remaining guidance for Q1 in 2015 is included in the slide deck posted on our Investor Relations website.
In summary we did what we said we were going to do for revenue growth and operating margin performance in 2014.
Although 2015 revenue growth is expected to be negatively impacted by 3 percentage points due to currency and the growth of hybrid cloud and SaaS we are encouraged by the breadth of our product portfolio and the opportunities ahead for our newer product areas.
And with that I'll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let's get started.
[Operator Instructions].
And first we have Mr.
Kash Rangan Merrill Lynch.
Sir your line is open.
Microsoft on a conference call yesterday talked about weakness getting worse in Japan and China but your comments suggest otherwise to a certain degree.
Can you just give us your state of the union [ph] take on what's happening with some of the emerging markets because the U.S.
certainly seems to be doing quite well and if you will if you have the time quick update on the government deal that you’re targeting to close sometime this year.
Thank you.
Just before we dive into the bulk of the Q&amp;A.
I just want to again express my appreciation to the tremendous results of the VMware team and $6 billion 16% growth the entire team had a really tremendous performance in this past year and with that Carl maybe you can comment on the geo differences that Kash was asking about.
Sure.
So let me start off answering your first question as it relates to China and Japan specifically.
So once again we saw strong performance in our China business and we have seen that continuously over the last couple of years.
We have a great team there and they are executing well and this is despite what everyone else is saying and seeing in the region.
We will continue to watch the macro of China going forward and make adjustments as needed but we couldn't be more pleased with the execution of the team in our China business.
As it relates to Japan we still didn't necessarily see the growth that we would've liked to have seen but we did see much better improvement in our overall execution and as we head into 2015 we believe that our Japan business will get back on track and we have a great leadership team there to lead us into the new year.
And as it relates to the federal deal at this time the deal did not close in Q4 but we remain very pleased with our ongoing opportunity with the U.S.
Federal Government.
I'd also say given the pending RFP release to this opportunity we really are not in a position to discuss the opportunity at this point.
Having said that we expect it will leverage to large install base that we have across the Federal Government and we'll take their technologies that they currently have installed to the latest and greatest available and we'll help them actually meet their aggressive virtualization needs that is set forth in the government policy.
And next we’ve Mr.
Brent Thill with UBS.
Sir your line is open.
I know you love to talk about the ELA so I will ask your question as it relates to the 10% to 12% guidance with the FX headwind your assumption ELAs for the year to make up for that particular segment.
Well enterprise license agreements in particular Brent? Yes.
Yes.
We're not specifically guiding on mix but as you will have noticed we were up to I think 39% of our total bookings in Q4 '14 being from ELAs.
I think Carl can add but as I think about the mix going forward we still see the ELAs as being a valuable buying motion for customers.
The ELA renewal opportunity which I know is perhaps on top of people's minds does go up again in dollar terms in 2015 I just want to remind everybody that the majority of ELAs we do though are actually new.
So more than 50% of our ELAs are new business less than 50% of renewals but the dollar value of renewals does go up a bit more weighted towards the back half but obviously that’s factored into our guide as we think about not just the full year but also the profile of the year.
And next we have Mr.
Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Sir your line is open.
Carl maybe you could talk a little bit about the cloud and SaaS business that you expect to impact the forecast that Jonathan gave in and specifically I mean we’re all familiar with vCloud Air what else is in the mix there? Is it AirWatch or other things that you have seen impact from and do you see this transition going on for multiple years or do you feel like 2015 is the year where you take a little bit of an impact on revenue and then start to catch back up? Let me just clarify what's in our hybrid cloud and SaaS.
Business and how we classify it.
Obviously it's vCloud Air which is our hybrid cloud platform that we've built out that we own and operate.
It's our vCloud Air network which is greater than 4000 partners around the world that are leveraging our platform to deliver public cloud services.
It is a portion of the AirWatch revenue that is recognized as a service as you know we sell AirWatch both on premise and in perpetual license manner as well as we sell it in our public cloud on top of vCloud Air as a service.
And then we're also starting to see a pickup in other as a service offering specifically like desktop as a service which is VDI hosted in the public cloud and our vRealize suite we as a service which is our management products that have historically been sold as a perpetual license as on premise we now deliver through the public cloud.
So they are all the components of hybrid/SaaS revenue model going forward.
As we think about the mix we continue to see these as big growth opportunities for us and it's reflected in the guidance we're providing which is why Jonathan talked about the shift to more ratable revenue and subscription based revenue coming from these public cloud offerings.
So we are encouraged by it and we'll continue to update you as we go throughout 2015 on the progress we're making.
And Pat maybe you want to add a little color as well.
And I would also add Walter that just last week we had a major product announcement from our hybrid cloud business where we announced our on-demand service the second generation of our DR service additional feature and functions coming onto the platform that we expect to continue to accelerate the adoption specifically some hybrid networking capabilities that we announced.
All of those are continuing to build momentum.
And when we announced those services they're not only useful for us in the vCloud Air but we’re also are rapidly making those technologies available to the vCloud Air network of partners which continues to expand our global footprint through those as Carl said over 4000 partners.
And as the platform becomes more robust more of the services such as desktop as a service and others that Carl mentioned they become more and more attractive as well.
So we really see this as a reinforcing spiral and that’s resulting in Jonathan's guidance of this accelerating piece of our overall profile.
Our next question comes from Ms.
Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Ma'am your line is open.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the NSX deal and the comment you made about the run-rate of that business.
I'm just wondering the run-rate I think you gave us two quarters ago was $100 million now it's over $200 million.
What is it that’s kind of causing that business to inflect and how material do you think we could -- if you had to bet between that and EUC this year which one do you think is going to have the biggest incremental contribution to your billings? Let me start by answering the question first and then Pat can add any color as well.
So we were extremely pleased by our performance of NSX in the quarter as [inaudible] and we said our revenue has actually doubled our bookings I should say has doubled from the first half of the year into the second half of the year and it's now well over $200 million and the other thing that we are very proud of we have always talked about our ELA is becoming much more strategic to our customers and we saw 9 of our 10 largest ELAs in the quarter actually include NSX which driving this is the fact that NSX and network virtualization is moving from an early adopter phase into production.
Our customers are seeing significant business of NSX whether it's time to market and deployments of applications whether it's the powerful micro-segmentation solution that we are bringing to market that is unmatched right now or it's just overall people looking to modernize their existing network infrastructures leveraging the software defined networking approach.
All of those are really leading us to a very successful Q4 and a lot of momentum as we go into 2015.
As it relates to the one deal I highlighted we did do a $10 million or NSX deal with a large global financial services company who is looking to re-architect how they deliver networking services and we were really excited and pleased to finalize this agreement and contract with them and we hope to really change how they deploy run and operate their network on a go forward basis.
So overall just strong momentum and great customer adoption not just in proof of concepts any longer but really moving from [inaudible] straight into production.
And just to add a point or two and as Carl said we just couldn't be happier with the momentum that we are seeing in the market and customers have moved past the early adoption into now the production phase in this broader phase of adoption.
It is also such a powerful linchpin of our overall SDDC strategy where it really gives us that opportunity to transform not just compute not just management but the network as well.
And as we have already mentioned Heather this ability to tie together are often on premise offerings with our hybrid capability is truly a fundamental differentiator versus any other person on premise or any other cloud operator as well.
So this ties together so many of our strategies and we couldn't be more thrilled with the momentum we saw coming out of the end of Q4.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Phil Winslow of Credit Suisse.
Sir your line is open.
Just have a question on just your outlook you gave for the full-year obviously you talked about growth higher in the second half versus the first half.
I'm wondering if you can give us more details on what is driving that? Were you just talking about the ramp that you are expecting in NSX and vSAN that becoming -- continue to grow becoming a bigger percentage of revenues and so therefore lifts it up or is it something on the core side or the management tools.
Just maybe help us sort of get back into the first half from the second half from a product perspective.
Clearly Phil one of the things that’s having an impact and we're assuming at this point no further degradation in -- or strengthening in the dollar.
So one simple growth driver on a reported basis or an adjusted basis will be foreign exchange as we get to the second half.
So I just bring that up because we’re not expecting or modeling further decline and given the fact that Q4 '14 saw the most significant shift with a little bit also into this quarter you have got a year-over-year effect when you get to the back half of the year.
But you're right we're also are seeing product strength as we continue to see even more meaningful contributions plans from our newer product areas and as you have picked up from the license guided and product guide for Q1 we did see some impact of some transactions with longer revenue recognition periods having an impact on our Q1 2015 guide.
You'll see that in our long term deferred revenue being up 21%.
So it's a little bit of timing in here in terms of when [inaudible] is going to get recognized but fundamentally it's a combination of foreign exchange and strength in product bookings as we see greater contributions from our newer areas.
And next we’ve Mr.
John DiFucci with Jefferies.
Sir your line is open.
Follow-up to Phil's question Jonathan because I think even if you exclude those effects the foreign exchange and foreign exchange I think is understandable and pretty much expected.
Maybe the hybrid cloud and SaaS I think that is understandable to maybe not expected but Q1 even if you exclude those effects the license revenue it's the growth slows and then it reaccelerates for the year.
So I guess even excluding those effects why is it going to slow.
I guess one thing Carl said something I want to make sure I understand it.
You said something about seven deals over $10 million this quarter and it accelerated a few deals.
Were there some deals that were pulled into this quarter that might have gone into the next quarter and that's why you expect sort of a little bit of a low in the first quarter but you expect it to accelerate thereafter? Or is it something else going on there? So John there is a few comments I want to make so obviously you picked on this currency is having an impact on Q1 and again just to put a line underneath it license in particular is going to be negatively impacted we estimate by about 3 percentage points year-over-year.
The second factor was what I just alluded to which was we saw a larger mix of deals in particular as we finished Q4 with longer revenue recognition periods and it's typically the case.
We do structure deals in respect to how customers want to do business with us and in this particular case we saw a number of deals actually structured in such a way that revenue we recognized over a longer period of time as usual.
These are deals we have already taken that are on books.
The deferred revenue though will get recognized over a period of time and that's having something of an impact in Q1 and first half timeframe.
You'll know that our long-term deferred revenue actually went up by like 21%.
So fundamentally that’s just a timing question and again it's not future deals these deals that we’ve already taken and then Carl did mention as we were going through our prepared remarks we were able to accelerate a couple of large deals into Q4 that we had anticipated closing in 2015.
I view that as actually being a good thing.
First of all it reflects the strong value proposition given the fact that we saw a higher tax rate of NSX as an example in our Top 10 deals and also we did see something of a budget release from a handful of customers in the Q4 timeframe.
We do also have a little bit of a tough compare I would say in Q4 2014 from a license revenue perspective it's one of our stronger quarters for license revenue growth.
So if I step back from all of that will set up for an accelerating license growth story going into the second half but not actually that dissimilar from what we talked about for '13 and '14.
So those are the key drivers.
Next we have Rick Sherlund Nomura.
Sir your line is open.
On the FX side why are you assuming 118 when the rates are a bit different right now? And also I wasn't real clear on -- you said newer products in the second half of next year.
What were you referring to there? Are there unannounced things? No let me just clarify.
So the FX is a fairly straightforward one Rick.
So for the quarter where we plan our quarters essentially on an average rate and we started this year at 122 if you just take a look at the euro to dollar rate.
Now I think today the spot rates are 114.
So for modeling purposes and for planning out the corner we are assuming a 118 FX rate on average and then now all I was referring to with respect to the newer products was these are obviously starting out we believe that decade plus long opportunities for the early innings so the dollar contribution for those products as they grow nicely should have a greater dollar impact and greater growth impact as the mix of them becomes bigger in the back half.
We’re not signaling any other new products and what we have already talked about at this point.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Matt Hedberg RBC Capital Markets Sir your line is open.
I'm wondering how should we think about the growth and headcount in '15 versus your revenue assumptions and can you comment on your sales capacity and productivity assumptions as we enter '15? Matt I will take the first one quickly and then I will hand to Carl on sales capacity.
So headcount obviously we -- few things we don't guide on and headcount is one of them.
But I think about roughly growing in-line with the rest of the business and OpEx that’s inherent in the guide we have given here.
On sales capacity I think we've done all of our productivity math as you could expect as we looked at our 2015 guide for both Q1 and the full year.
And we believe that we have a well-thought-out plan on how we will hire to ensure that we have the capacity we need to deliver the results we're guiding to.
It's also important to note that we continue to invest not just in our core sales force but in our specialist sales force and engineering team around areas like NSX which we are seeing great momentum around management around vCloud Air as well as we have quite a large sales force that we got to the acquisition of AirWatch.
So specialty organizations continue to be important but we also have absolutely taken a look at the capacity needed from a pure sales force to deliver on the guidance we have provided.
And next we have Mr.
Keith Weiss of Morgan Stanley.
Sir your line is open.
I have a question for Jonathan.
I just wanted to dig into the Cash flow guidance and make sure I'm thinking about this right.
When I look at the income statement guidance sort of total revenue and operating markets I get to low-teens about 12% operating income growth.
I understand there are some one-time items that take about 13 percentage points of growth.
But if we are going to do around $2 billion operating cash flow that’s going to be down low-teens.
So I'm just trying to understand sort of the variance between operating income growth those items that you gave and sort of what operating cash flow is expected to come out.
Is there any sort of additional drag on operating cash flow that we should be aware of? You know Keith there are a number of things overall.
I’ve identified the three major drivers but obviously forecasting cash flow is inherently lumpy.
I'm giving you my best view of the cash flow outlook at the start of the year.
I will just take the opportunity to highlight and perhaps help you as you think about your models here a little bit.
So first of all number item is we expect to pay approximately $350 million in cash taxes compared to 2015 compared in 2014 so that’s an increase of over 50%.
Secondly we are expecting to make installment payments to the AirWatch Founders part of the transaction that we struck with them when we acquired AirWatch.
And that’s up around $100 million in 2015 compared to 2014.
So again that’s a pretty big increase percentagewise.
I do think there is going to be ongoing FX impact and we have assumed around $80 million.
So those various factors are actually about a 14% headwind to OCS growth.
And again I think you've clearly picked this up but just to make sure everybody has we expect to see the headwinds from at least two of those items cash taxes and the AirWatch Founder payments basically be removed after this year.
So in other words in 2016 we will have a very very small amount of AirWatch Founder payments in the first quarter a fraction of the amount we’re going to be seeing in 2015.
And I'm expecting our cash tax rate on GAAP income to normalize it at about that mid-20s rate much as it is in 2015 timeframe.
So when you start to then see normalized cash flow levels trend back to us for 2016 taking out those one-time items I think that should help you as you think about not just '15 but '16 as well.
Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.
Sir your line is open.
I had a similar question I wanted to try to ask in a different way.
Jonathan for 2015 it looks like operating cash flow will dip below operating income and you’ve been very clear about the one-time impacts.
I think it's well understood.
But I'm curious moving beyond 2015 should we model operating cash flow either generally materially above operating income or do you think we have generally reached a point of essentially longer term convergence between those two numbers where say there wouldn't be a very material spread between the two numbers.
I don't want to get dragged into much into forecasting 2016.
I understand the thrust and the reason why you are asking the question.
Cash flow fundamentally is going to be a combination of bookings less expenses because we bill upfront on our bookings.
As we think about the opportunity to grow the top line revenue beyond the 2015 beyond the guide I’ve given you that’s the way I would think about it as and then reinforce by bookings growth.
But I do think they're going to generally converge recognizing that billings often don't translate immediately into revenue.
But we'll talk more about 2016 in approximately 365 days' time if that's okay.
Next we have Michael Turits Raymond James.
Sir your line is open.
I was just wondering if you can just talk again about those long-term deferred that were so strong in this quarter.
I know you said there was some rev reck and some of that was going to flow into I assumed into the back half of '15 but what was the multiyear long term preferreds beyond one year? In particular what I was highlighting was that we saw a number of transactions at the back half of 2014 and end up having deal terms that we struck with a customer that allows the customer to consume product and these aren't SaaS deals these are just regular license deals that allow the consumer to consume our product and require us to revenue recognize the transaction over an extended period of time.
In some cases this can over more than one year.
And again I don't necessarily view that’s being a bad thing it's actually -- we have got the cash up front.
We have ventured into the transaction with the customer.
It's really just a question of how the revenue is being recognized off the balance sheet Michael.
And that’s what we saw based on the responsiveness and how we dealt with the customer.
Carl do you want to add anything? Yes I don't think anything has changed Jonathan in our business model.
I think you articulated the right way I will just add that we remain open and flexible to meet our customers desires and wishes on how they want to procure our software and depending on the deal terms and deal structures it can create a different timing of how we recognize revenue whether it's all up front or if it's over time.
But in Q4 as Jonathan said we did see more ratable revenue recognition some of our larger deals which is what has driven some of our long term deferred revenue up 21% on a year-over-year basis.
And next is Mr.
Gregg Moskowitz Cowen and Company.
Sir your line is open.
I just had a follow-up to Keith's question.
Jonathan you had pointed out those three headwinds to cash flow from ops which in total is greater than investors had expected.
The question is even if we exclude that I'm getting to cash flow from operations growth of only about 7% in 2015.
And in light of low double digit growth expected in revenue with some margin expansion I just would've expected a little bit more than that.
So I'm just kind of wondering if there are any working capital assumptions or other items that we should be aware of.
Gregg I would just summarize it and say look in any one particular quarter and even for a year cash flows can be somewhat lumpy.
And you saw that in Q4 in particular.
We saw tax payments coming in.
So we have taken all of that into account as we think about the outlook for the year 2015.
We will obviously update you on how we do against the goal that I’ve laid out but at the start of the year I think that guidance level of around $2 billion obviously reflects as one-time items but also a multitude of other factors as we’ve looked at the timing of working capital cash flow receipts and payments etcetera.
So it's my best view at this point.
And next we have Abhey Lamba Mizuho Securities.
Your line is open.
This is [inaudible] stepping in for Abhey.
I just want to ask a quick question regarding the OpenStack distribution and specifically how it fits into your overall cloud strategy and how we should think of it as part of your hybrid cloud SaaS offerings? Thanks.
OpenStack generally as we’ve talked about has been a good business for us.
We've seen OpenStack customers growing faster than our overall business.
And what we indicated at VMworld last year was that we would begin offering a VMware OpenStack distribution directly to our customers.
You'll be hearing more about that this quarter so we are quite excited about that.
And as we discuss our OpenStack offering with customers it becomes a very compelling offering because our customers are very large VMware footprints using our networking computers etcetera as part of that and this becomes a very easy way for them to extend their offerings to their internal developer teams or other application developers to also offer OpenStack APIs as a way to consume that infrastructure without in any way altering their underlying networking compute management security requirements and all of those are common and broadly deployed.
So we are quite excited about bringing that to market and we believe that based on our beta customer feedback that it's going to be an extraordinarily well received offering on the part of our customers.
All right.
Thank you.
I think that with only a minute or so left I think it's time to probably conclude the call.
Pat will have a couple of final comments.
Again thank you all for joining us for the call today.
In summary our business is growing and we're confident in our strategy looking forward.
I'd like to thank again our customers partners and employees for their passion support and engagement as we began 2015 with the strongest portfolio of products and services in the history of VMware.
And as I mentioned in my formal comments we hope you all will be able to join us online for our launch next week at VMware.com/now.
Thank you.
I look forward to hearing from you then.
That concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day and welcome to the VMware First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Paul Ziots Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick; Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP data for constant currency growth in revenues plus sequential change in unearned revenues for Q1 2015 and Q1 2014 excluding unearned revenues acquired from AirWatch in Q1 2014.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of acquired intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software certain litigation and other related items acquisition-related items and realignment-related net gains and charges and as mentioned unearned revenues acquired from AirWatch during Q1 2014.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our second quarter 2015 quiet period begins at the close of business June 15 2015.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Our first quarter was a solid start to 2015.
Q1 revenue grew 13% year-over-year in constant currency and we exceeded our total revenue and non-GAAP operating margin guidance.
We started 2015 with one of the most significant product launches in our history.
On February 2 we were joined by over 25 000 customers partners and influencers as we outlined our One Cloud Any Application Any Device strategy and we announced the industry's first unified platform of virtualized compute network and storage for the hybrid cloud.
This unified cloud platform enables customers to create one consistent environment across private and public clouds able to run manage and protect any cloud native or traditional application.
It also offers customers openness and choice in how to build and manage their applications in cloud environments.
As part of this launch we unveiled a series of exciting new products and services.
New vCloud Air hybrid networking services will help customers seamlessly extend their VMware private and public clouds with a single secure network domain.
We announced the availability of VMware Integrated OpenStack an OpenStack distribution that enables our customers to easily provide their developers with open APIs to access VMware's enterprise-class infrastructure.
VMware vSphere 6 which serves as the foundation for the hybrid cloud features more than 650 new features with a focus on addressing the needs of business critical and cloud native applications.
And we also announced VMware Virtual SAN 6 and vSphere Virtual Volumes designed to enable mass adoption of software-defined storage and introducing significant scalability and performance enhancements.
Our One Cloud Any Application Any Device strategy demonstrates the dramatic benefits of the new software-defined model for IT.
We are seeing a significant increase in the adoption of our newer products and solutions like NSX and we're seeing a significant increase in the percentage of customers adopting the full SDDC portfolio and solutions like enterprise hybrid cloud from our federation of companies.
It's also been an exciting quarter in the area of cloud services as we continue to expand our offerings around the world.
We announced an agreement with Google to deliver greater enterprise access to public cloud services via VMware vCloud Air.
Our VMware vCloud Government Service provided by Carpathia has achieved the provisional authority to operate through the U.S.
government's FedRAMP program and we expanded VMware vCloud Air in Europe and APJ with the general availability of service in Germany and in Australia through our partnership with Telstra.
This new VMware-operated German data center complements our UK service and provides customers with a Central European location that helps to address German and EU compliance and data protection regulations while enabling them to take advantage of VMware's enterprise-class cloud.
We were busy at Mobile World Congress this year as we announced VMware vCloud for NFV with support from both service providers and several virtual network function providers.
VMware vCloud for NFV is optimized for telcos and provides an integrated platform for network functions virtualization that combines our virtual compute network storage and management solutions with integrated OpenStack support.
We also announced AirWatch 8 at Mobile World Congress.
This is the biggest release since we acquired AirWatch and will streamline the management of virtually every device type and mobile application while enabling organizations to improve business processes.
We completed the tuck-in acquisition of Immidio for workspace environment management which is now integrated with App Volumes into our latest desktop release Horizon 6 R1 (06:36).
All-in-all our end-user computing business continues to distance itself from the competition as we deliver unprecedented value for our customers.
Let me close by talking about yesterday's exciting introduction of three new open-source projects from our federation companies designed to enable enterprise adoption of cloud native applications.
Pivotal launched Project Lattice which packages open-source components from cloud foundry for deploying and managing containerized workflows.
And VMware announced the launch of two new open-source projects: Project Lightwave an enterprise identity and access management solution which also enables scalable security for containers; and Project Photon a lightweight Linux operating system focused on container and cloud native applications.
Together these new projects will help enterprises develop run and manage secure cloud native applications.
In closing we're delighted to recently be ranked in Fortune Magazine's list of 100 Best Companies to Work For in the U.S.
This was our first submission and we competed with hundreds of companies for the honor of being recognized as one of America's best employers.
I'll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q1.
Thank you Pat.
VMware's One Cloud Any App Any Device vision is clearly being embraced by our customers and partners alike.
This trend was evident with more than 4 000 people attending our Partner Exchange conference in February.
We continue to build industry thought leadership as our customers are seeing the value and agility and efficiencies resulting from abstracting pooling and automating key data center resources.
We were pleased with our global sales execution in Q1 and are off to a solid start in 2015.
Taking a closer look at our regional bookings performance in Q1 we saw balanced growth across all geographies.
This performance was a result of solid execution across the entire company.
Our Customer Operations team around the world did an outstanding job closing large deals in what is typically a seasonally tough quarter for technology companies.
Enterprise license agreements were approximately 30% of total first quarter bookings.
This is up from approximately 25% last Q1.
This strong performance demonstrates customers' commitment to investing in VMware's expanded solution offerings.
We closed three deals at or over $10 million in the quarter and had a healthy mix of new ELAs as well as ELA renewals.
New ELAs continue to be over 50% of total ELAs.
Our large deals increasingly include components from each of our three business groups.
This reflects the strategic value our customers rely on from VMware.
Cloud management saw solid license bookings growth in Q1 helped by strong double-digit year-over-year growth from vSphere with operations.
We were particularly pleased with our VSAN growth driven by our channel's ability to execute on our no naked vSphere strategy.
We saw strong customer interest and demand across all three of our cloud management products: vRealize Operation vRealize Automation and vRealize Business.
Our cloud management penetration is now nearly 15% of our install base leaving plenty of headroom for growth.
End-user computing had its sixth consecutive quarter of strong performance under the new leadership team.
EUC including AirWatch grew license bookings over 50% year-over-year in Q1 on a constant-currency basis.
The desktop license business grew over 15% year-over-year on a constant-currency basis and we believe we once again gained share from the competition during the quarter.
Specific to AirWatch we believe we remain the undisputed leader in the enterprise mobile management space.
In March at Mobile World Congress AirWatch was awarded the best mobile cloud service or app for an EMM vendor at this event.
The ecosystem continues to embrace end-user computing most notably Palo Alto Networks embraced AirWatch at their recent Ignite conference and NVIDIA showcasing 3D graphics powered by Horizon desktop and vSphere 6 at their recent GPU Technology Conference.
We saw continued momentum in Q1 for our network virtualization solution VMware NSX.
We saw success across a wide variety of industries market segments and geos.
Our pipeline is growing rapidly and the number of customers doing proof-of-concept continues to accelerate every single quarter.
Earlier this year results of a VMware customer study showed that the source of funds to purchase NSX has been predominately from networking cloud and security budgets.
The purchase of NSX is being mainly driven by budgets beyond that of compute thus allowing VMware to reach into new buyers and new sources of funds as we're building momentum behind network virtualization.
As we look at our customer pipeline and this data (12:33) we agree fully with IDC which says that over 70% of large and mid-sized organizations will initiate major network redesigns over the next three years.
We're seeing exactly that momentum today.
We continue to see customers seeking to transform their network and security operations due to the current limitations of the network architectures in the data center today.
Moving to Virtual SAN we continue to see customers from different industries and market segments interested in Virtual SAN as a storage solution not just because of the technological value it delivers today but because of the products' undeniable value around operational efficiency ease of management and flexibility.
VSAN is a key component driving our hyper-converged infrastructure solution EVO:RAIL a first of its kind in the industry built on the VMware software stack and delivering the SDDC promise in an efficient predictable and cost-effective way.
Turning to hybrid cloud we continue to see momentum in our vCloud Air and our vCloud Air Network offerings.
Our vCloud Air service is now generally available in five global markets and on track with our objectives of expanding the geographical footprint.
We're excited about our joint venture with Softbank Group that brought vCloud Air to Japan.
Early indicators show strong demand for vCloud Air for all industry segments in Japan.
In summary we are pleased with the strength of our results in Q1.
VMware is placed at the center of the transformation taking place in the IT industry and we are positioned to lead the industry with the most complete portfolio in the company's history.
We are confident about our opportunity for Q2 and beyond.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
CFO &amp; Executive VP</strong> Thank you Carl.
We are very pleased with our Q1 results as we exceeded both our total revenue and non-GAAP operating margin guidance.
In addition license bookings beyond standalone vSphere were greater than 55% of total license bookings up from greater than 45% in Q1 2014 and nearly double the percentage of two years ago.
License bookings beyond standalone vSphere grew over 30% year-over-year in constant currency.
This continues to demonstrate the significant progress we are making in expanding our portfolio of products for enabling the software-defined enterprise.
Q1 total revenues were $1.51 billion up 13% year-over-year on a constant-currency basis were up 11% as reported.
Q1 license revenues were $576 million up 6% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 3% as reported.
As with most of our peers currency negatively impacted revenue growth by more than anticipated when Q1 guidance was provided at this time last quarter.
I'll talk about our expectation for a larger impact of currency on Q2 and full-year 2015 when discussing guidance shortly.
Revenues from our hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings increased to greater than 6% of our Q1 total revenues with a growth rate once again of over 100% year-over-year.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q1 was $0.86 per share on approximately 430 million shares and as planned continue to reflect the dilutive effect of the acquisition of AirWatch in 2014.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 5.4 million shares of stock for a total of $438 million.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter-end of $7.2 billion up 9% from Q1 2014.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $4.7 billion up 14% from Q1 2014 with $1.8 billion in long-term unearned revenues up 11% year-over-year.
We're aware that many of you use the calculation of revenue plus sequential change in unearned revenue as an estimate for bookings.
To help you with this calculation this quarter we have included a table with growth rates for these calculated figures in our financial statements.
The table is also in the slide deck accompanying this call.
To summarize this data in Q1 the growth rate for total revenue plus change in unearned revenue was approximately 7% year-over-year.
The growth rate for license revenue plus change in unearned license revenue was approximately 9% year-over-year.
These growth rates adjust for the impact of currency on revenue and unearned revenue as well as for the unearned revenue acquired with the AirWatch acquisition back in Q1 2014.
Turning to guidance for 2015 as you recall when guidance was set for the full year we anticipated currency to have an approximate two percentage point negative impact to total revenue growth and an approximate three percentage point negative impact to license revenue growth.
When guidance was set three months ago we were applying an average U.S.
dollar to euro rate of $1.18.
Since the last earnings call the U.S.
dollar has continued to strengthen significantly and we now anticipate currency to have an approximately three percentage point negative impact to total revenue growth and a slightly over four percentage point negative impact to license revenue growth for 2015.
For the purposes of guidance we are now applying an average U.S.
dollar to euro rate of $1.07 for the balance of 2015.
Significant changes from this assumption may affect our reported results and we'll update you as the year progresses.
With that as background we currently expect total revenues for 2015 to be between $6.570 billion and $6.690 billion or up 9% to 11% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this will be up 12% to 14% year-over-year.
License revenues for the full-year are expected to be between $2.700 billion and $2.775 billion or up 4% to 7% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this will be up 9% to 12% year-over-year.
Note that there has been no change to revenue guidance for 2015 except to adjust for the increased impact of currency.
As a reminder we will continue to monitor the effect of growth in our hybrid cloud and SaaS businesses.
Obviously faster growth for hybrid cloud and SaaS could have a delaying effect on total revenue growth.
While we believe we have taken this into account in the guidance provided for 2015 we're tracking this carefully given the solid growth we continue to experience.
We'll update you as we progress through the year.
For 2015 we continue to expect full-year non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 31.5% which balances some margin expansion against continued investment on growth businesses.
As a reminder we are planning for AirWatch to be EPS neutral exiting the fourth quarter of 2015.
However this plan continues to imply a dilutive effect from AirWatch on overall margins throughout 2015.
We continue to see the opportunity to invest in our various new product areas and we intend to manage spending accordingly.
Regarding cash flow from operations while we managed cash flow well in Q1 our cash receipts in foreign currency represent approximately 30% of our total billings.
These receipts as well as our expenses in foreign currencies are affected by the historic movements in FX rates that we're all monitoring.
And based on the dollar to euro rate of $1.07 I mentioned earlier we now estimate the cash flow from operations will be approximately $50 million lower at $1.95 billion in 2015.
There were no other changes to operating cash flow guidance for the year.
We're currently modeling a share count of between $428 million and $430 million shares for the year and a non-GAAP EPS range of between $3.94 and $4.02 per share.
Note that there has been no change to non-GAAP EPS guidance for 2015 except to adjust for the increased net impact of currency and the effect of our share repurchase program.
You'll note that we accelerated our buyback significantly during Q1 repurchasing 5.4 million shares for just over $438 million.
We saw Q1 as a good opportunity to be more aggressive with our buyback program given the opportunities we see ahead.
We continue to plan for over $1 billion of repurchases in 2015 weighted towards the front half of the year.
These share repurchases in 2015 are taken into account in our share count model.
Shifting to Q2 2015 we expect total reported revenue to be between $1.580 billion and $1.600 billion or up 8% to 10% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 12% to 14% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q2 are expected to be between $630 million to $640 million or up 3% to 4% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 9% to 11% year-over-year.
For Q2 we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 30.25% and non-GAAP EPS of between $0.90 and $0.92 per share.
The remaining guidance for Q2 in 2015 is included in the slide deck posted on our Investor Relations website.
In summary we're off to a great start for the year having posted solid Q1 results which exceeded total revenue and non-GAAP operating margin guidance for the quarter.
And with that I'll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let's get started.
Thank you.
We will take our first question from Raimo Lenschow of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
Question for Carl.
Carl can you talk a little bit about what you see from a geographic perspective in terms of end demand in the different regions? Thank you.
Hey Raimo.
This is Pat.
And thank you for the first question.
Just as we kick-off I just want to emphasize what a solid start to Q1 was for our call and we did have just a great way to start the year and reaffirm our guidance for the year.
We think this is just a great way to start and Carl maybe you could tackle the geo question.
Yeah.
Thanks Raimo.
So let me give a little bit more color on our performance globally.
So overall I think it was just a very solid quarter.
We had great execution across the board from our go-to-market teams and we saw really good bookings growth from both EMEA Americas and APJ.
Prior to break that down just a little bit more we had a solid quarter in the U.S.
and we were very pleased with our ELA performance as well as we were pleased with our federal business growing in the mid-teens in Q1.
When I look at Europe we had good performance across all three regions.
I'd probably call-out though Raimo that in Central Europe and particularly Germany we saw really good growth and if you recall last year we spent a lot of time talking about Germany and the fact that we had some execution issues and we put a new leadership team in place and we're seeing that start to pay off with those changes we made.
Then as – if I think about APJ again another good quarter bookings plan and target that we had set for them internally.
And the region I call-out in APJ this quarter is Japan.
We had a really solid quarter in Japan.
There was strong customer demand and it being their fiscal year-end really gave us some great results across the board across all markets all segments in Japan.
So couldn't be more pleased with the team's execution especially around the ELA execution bringing in 30% of our bookings through ELAs is a great start to the year for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please.
We will take our next question from Rick Sherlund of Nomura.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I wondered if you could talk about the government contract that drew a lot of attention during the quarter.
Did it have any negative impact on you or is it not important in terms of signing up the individual constituent agencies? Yes.
Hey Rick.
This is Carl.
I'll take that one as well.
So Rick to your point as most of you guys know the government did release a RFP that was specific to VMware for a large ELA that would cover multiple agencies.
In the end they decided to cancel the ELA due to a number of protests that came in against this large contract.
They have indicated they are intending to move forward with the VMware ELA after they evaluate all the protests.
Taking it just a tad bit further in the last now I guess this is the third quarter in a row specifically I called out two things about this ELA.
The first is we never let a quarter or our guidance be dependent on a specific or a single deal.
And secondly we didn't necessarily control the timing if you will of this ELA.
That's something the government controls.
And that is the same as we sit here three quarters later talking about this opportunity.
With that being said we continue to work with all of the different agencies across the federal government.
Some of them could participate in the ELA if it came out and it was closed and some may decide not to.
So we have to work across all of the different agencies in the federal government and we're very pleased with our performance.
Despite the ELA not coming to fruition in Q1 we had a very good quarter in federal growing the business in the mid-teens.
So we continue to power along despite this thing out there for multiple quarters.
And going forward again we look at our total pipeline we don't look at a specific deal as we think about our guidance and our forecast in any given quarter.
Thank you Rick.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Brent Thill with UBS.
Good afternoon.
The tone of this Q1 is a little different than the last Q1 and I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about how these new solutions are entering into the customer conversations the confidence of them moving forward with VMware? Just be curious to get a little more color as those conversations are happening.
I know you don't give all the metrics out but how you're seeing that build in terms of the backlog of these solutions on current deal (27:41) quarter? Yes thanks Brent.
I'll start that and then ask Carl to give a bit more specifics.
But overall and I think you are right this Q1 definitely has a more positive tone than last Q1.
And with that we definitely are seeing that the broadening of our portfolio right as Jonathan has talked about the broadening of the No Naked vSphere the presence of NSX and vCloud Air and VSAN and AirWatch and our management products all of those are contributing to the broadening and strategic role that we play with customers.
And as Carl commented obviously the ELA performance is one metric of that but the strengthening of our strategic relationship with customers is clearly seeing momentum build.
And as a result we feel good as we begin the year that that momentum sets us up well for the rest of 2015.
Carl maybe a few more specifics on the new product areas? Yes so Brent I think you're pretty accurate reflecting on the tone of this call versus Q1 of last year.
Last year we had a good print (28:50) from a revenue perspective but we highlighted we weren't pleased with our bookings performance and a lot of that we said was self-induced just because we had a lot going on in the quarter and we probably didn't perform and execute at the level we expected.
This Q1 again just great performance across the board both in our ELA business bouncing back to 30% of our total bookings and we actually had a solid quarter transactionally as well powered by things like vSOM as well as AirWatch performance in the quarter.
So a different tone and again I'm just really proud of the teams and how they were able to execute especially on the large deals because we all know Q1 is seasonally a tough quarter for tech companies.
But we came through this one in very good shape and we're off to a great start to the year.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please.
We will take our next question from John DiFucci with Jefferies.
Thank you.
Thanks guys.
Listen the results look good strong cash flow and top line bottom line.
But just because I'm getting inundated guys and your stock was originally trading down a little bit now it's up but seems to be a lot of questions around the billings calculation.
And thanks Jonathan for going through that and that table is in the press release too.
But especially around license billings ELAs as a percentage of total billings were actually up.
We got that number on the call even after a very strong fourth quarter ELA quarter.
And it sounds like you got a lot of really good momentum going here.
But why were the license billings growth a little lower this quarter I guess than more recent quarters? And I guess – I mean you've given guidance so I think we should think about that going forward.
It sounds like things are in good shape.
But can you explain a little bit more why license billings were a little bit lower growth rate than we've seen? CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Yes sure.
John this is Jonathan.
Appreciate your question.
I was expecting currency to be the first three questions on the call but appreciate not having to do that.
So as we talked about last quarter we do see FY 2015 seeing slightly more accelerated growth rate in the second half versus the first half and that's very consistent with the guide that I've given for Q2 and also for the full year.
And you'll be very familiar with the fact that we talked about this phenomena actually in 2013 and 2014.
We performed well in both of those instances.
And for license revenues and license bookings we said – I was expecting a slightly more pronounced effect again with acceleration in the second half.
A couple of things driving that; one the first one right off the bat is FX.
FX is having a stronger impact negative impact in the early parts of the year because of the year-over-year compares.
We've got a seven-point impact on license revenues as an example in Q2 year-over-year and that's a pretty big delta as you can imagine.
Same sort of impact as I disclosed in the call in my prepared remarks on bookings.
And we talked last quarter also about the effect of some ratable transactions plus some deals that ended up closing earlier in Q4 that have an impact in our bookings reported in Q1 in particular.
But as we think about the back half of the year what I get excited about is the strength of the newer product areas and expect those to have a more meaningful impact as the dollar size of these product areas become bigger.
NSX VSAN vCloud Air et cetera all are expected to have a bigger impact as the dollar size and dollar contributions of those business areas becomes more significant in the back half of the year John.
So hopefully that gives you a sense of how we see that acceleration being set up as we go.
It does Jonathan.
Thank you.
But are you seeing the momentum early this year that'll take you into the second half in these newer product areas? CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Well I'll let Carl comment just a little bit more expansion on what he's already said.
But when you think about the momentum we've been seeing in areas like NSX yes we're off to a good start.
The geos (32:50) performed extremely well this quarter.
We're starting off the year as we planned so very consistent with the guidance we're laying out.
Yes John just on the products again we're still in the early innings of this baseball game with a lot of these new products.
We see a lot of potential in the market for them and we are starting to see our ELAs include some of the new technologies.
For example I think we saw eight of our 10 largest ELAs include NSX and these are revenue-generating NSX customers who are deploying it and deep into production.
We are pleased with the transactional side of the VSAN business.
AirWatch continues to deliver against all of our metrics that we have internally.
That acquisition is paying off in spades.
And vCloud Air and the vCloud Air Network partners that we have continue to perform as we expect and we're pleased with the solid start of the year.
And the other thing I would say is the ELA is a great vehicle for customers to add our newer products if and when they're ready to do so.
So just because it's not included in all upfront ELAs these newer products it's just a great vehicle to easily amend and add these new products in the future as their timing is ready to deploy this technology.
Thank you John.
Great.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Walter Pritchard of Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And I apologize for the background noise.
Just before I ask my questions I just want I heard you right there Carl.
Did you say eight of the top ten ELAs included NSX? That's accurate.
Eight of our top ten ELAs in the quarter included NSX in those contracts.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Just wanted to make sure...
Also throw in if you don't mind Carl but nine of the top ten included an EUC component as well.
EUC and AirWatch.
We're starting to see a lot of AirWatch now be integrated into our ELAs so the leverage we expected from the VMware core as part of the AirWatch acquisition is paying off and we're very excited about what's happening with the AirWatch business.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
So the question I had was actually around vCloud Air.
It sounds like you are happy with some of the momentum there.
I'm curious what are you seeing people use that service for today? How do you expect that to change and to evolve as you get some more growth in meaningful numbers in the back half of the year? And then you signed an agreement there with Google you haven't really talked a lot about what the strategy is there but I'd love to hear you kind of wrap your relationship with Google into that answer because I think some of us are curious where you'll ultimately go with that.
Yes this is Pat and I'll address that.
This was a great momentum-building quarter for vCloud Air.
We had strong initial response from our Japanese offering with Softbank.
We launched with Telstra in Australia the most penetrated virtualization market anywhere in the world so very sophisticated customers.
A lot of excitement around the vCloud Air service we launched in Germany.
So taken together a lot of very strong geographic expansion.
We also had strong product expansion with the on-demand service going live NSX service hybrid networking.
So a great product quarter as well.
And we definitely are seeing that continued very dramatic year-on-year growth rates for vCloud Air; starting small accelerating rapidly but also is the broader vCloud Air Network and that had another very strong quarter as well and that clearly amplifies significantly our presence in the industry.
We also had a strong vCloud Air government service launch as well which we were really quite pleased.
Literally every agency every three-letter acronym et cetera was showing up for the service launch as well.
So overall a lot of momentum.
With respect to Google what we said when we announced that in Q1 was later in the year we will begin to offer four Google services through vCloud Air; and object service DNX (36:58) service BigQuery and NoSQL offering.
And those will come on later in the year so we'll be updating you as those services become available but we believe that's a very strong offering to further extend Google's presence into enterprise and further enhance the vCloud Air offering with the largest network and cloud offering on the planet.
So we think this is quite a marriage made in heaven and we're excited to see it come into the market together with us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Pat.
Thanks Walt.
Thank you Walter.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
The awareness of the hybrid cloud seems to be showing up in our surveys as well right alongside Azure and AWS.
So I'm wondering if you could discuss what you're doing at a field level that is causing that increase in evaluations.
And also for quite some time we've been getting this statistic of non-vSphere bookings.
Now it looks like this quarter is more than 55% and the growth rate in that bucket has been very very strong.
At what point are we going to start to see those solid double-digit growth rates manifest into license? Or should we not expect that because the core vSphere business itself will probably be flat to declining business so the growth in the non-vSphere is going to be more than offset by the decline? In other words is it unreasonable to expect some kind of reacceleration in licenses given that trend? Or is there a counterbalancing effect? Thank you.
Thank you Kash.
Which would you prefer? The first or the second question? Both if you can.
What a surprise Kash.
You can save time on the follow up.
Let me take the first one and then I'll let us figure out how much time.
Let me just quickly talk about vCloud Air.
So we are encouraged that even you are seeing vCloud Air show up in a lot of your surveys and there's a strong customer demand out there.
I think one of the reasons is we've done a really big push to educate our field on the value proposition behind VMware.
It's not vCloud Air necessarily but our hybrid cloud services.
And we think we have a clear differentiation against all cloud providers in the way that we can actually manage both on-premise and off-premise in a very similar way with the same operating procedures same operating model and same support structure.
So now we can go into our customers and talk about the strength of VMware and not really dictate or try to push them in one direction or another either on-premise or off-premises.
We truly talk about it is as a hybrid cloud.
And we're also being a bit more aggressive in how we compensate our field around vCloud Air and we'll continue to do so as we pick up momentum going forward.
CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> And Kash I'll give you the bonus half (39:50) question.
How about that? I suspect it's a question on everybody's mind.
So you talked about – you asked about the mix of the business beyond standalone vSphere and that has been a metric we've been sharing now for I think at least 18 months a couple of years maybe.
And it's really pleasing to me to see the performance and the diversification that we're bringing to the business.
And you're right around 30% of our licensed billings now coming from areas beyond standalone – excuse me greater than 55% growing at greater than 30%.
And so the key thing there is as we've shared at various Analyst Days over the last couple of years is while Compute did do well this quarter it is still – while it's less than 45% of our total billings it's still a big big piece of our business and not growing at that same rate by any means.
So you've got a very strategic layer in our technology stack but it's strategic and not necessarily going to be a growth driver for us in and of itself.
It's an important platform from which we extend areas like storage and networking and management and end-user computing et cetera and obviously the hybrid cloud we just talked about.
But it's not in and of itself going to be a major growth driver for us going forward.
It did do well this quarter which we were really pleased about when we think about the technology of Compute.
But when we think about what really drives growth for us going forward it is going to be those bigger areas and obviously we've got a math dynamic of greater than 55% of our business growing at 30% and under 45% of our business growing at substantially less than that.
So it's a math dynamic.
What drives growth for us in the long-term is those newer areas we've been talking about.
Now that's why we're particularly bullish on areas like NSX et cetera.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse.
So speaking of the areas that you're more bullish on like NSX I was wondering if you could provide us an update on both VSAN and NSX.
Last quarter I think you said you exited with 400 NSX customers I think it was north of 1 000 VSAN.
Just wondering if you could provide us just an update maybe on those two metrics and also just kind of the color of how you think where you are at the end of Q1 and how you're thinking about the progression of the year? Thanks.
Yes this is Pat.
On NSX we had a very solid growth year-on-year.
We continue to see great interest on the part of customers growing number of customers in production and at scale.
A pilot is underway with the largest enterprise and service providers on the planet.
Use cases like micro-segmentation continue to resonate extremely well with customers and really addresses maybe their biggest need is addressing security issues.
And I'd also say we see emphasis not just in VMware environments but open-stack and bare-metal use cases as well.
And as Carl already mentioned eight of top 10 deals this quarter included NSX.
And with that we're not updating the metrics in terms of number of deals or run rate this quarter.
We'll do that periodically as we hit major milestones.
So you'll see us doing those at appropriate moments into the future.
But overall this is a winning product that's gaining momentum and clearly on the other side of the inflection point of the interest in the industry.
With respect to VSAN also good customer interest healthy transactional quarter.
This is a component of what Carl was describing with the strength in our transactional business.
We saw hundreds of customers add the technology this quarter.
Virtual SAN 6.0 our big product launch in Q1 was a big deal.
So customers were clearly waiting for and looking for the key capabilities that were part of that.
Also with VSAN it is a component of our overall software-defined storage strategy of which the VVol rollout that we did as part of our big launch in Q1 was a key component as well.
And we're seeing the array technologies take advantage of that capability and momentum build there.
And finally on VSAN it is central for EVO:RAIL and EVO:RACK and both of those – and EVO:RAIL very solid start momentum building for that and EVO:RACK you'll see later in the year.
Thank you Phil.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thank you.
I was wondering Carl or Pat if you could talk about you mentioned the growing base of POCs for NSX and I was wondering if you can help us understand where some of these are in terms of go-lives and what specifically can you point to that's helping to fuel the acceleration in POC adoption because it really does seem like over the last six months it's kind of really kicked into high gear.
Carl you want to start and then...? Yes so I'll start and then Pat you can add color if you think I missed anything.
So thanks Heather for the question.
Yes and indeed we're all excited here at VMware about the momentum we see across NSX.
And we do continue to see in all three geographies not just in the Americas but Europe and APJ we continue to see a big increase in our proof of concepts in our evaluations for NSX.
And a number of them are in the area of micro-segmentation but there's also a significant demand for NSX around two other areas.
One is just business agility.
Today the bottleneck in the data center is the networking and how long is the provision all (45:23) the networking services and with NSX people can now deploy literally their compute virtualization with networking service in minutes as compared to days if not months.
And then the other one is people are absolutely looking to get a better return on their invested capital meaning they're trying to extend or preserve their existing network infrastructure but get all of the benefits of network virtualization through the abstraction that we're providing and that's a very powerful use case for our customers.
So those combined with some of the things that Pat talked about earlier around NSX is what's giving us a lot of excitement and energy around it.
And then the last one I would say is anyone who is building what we describe is a greenfield data center where they're implementing a net new infrastructure almost all of those customers are looking to deploy network virtualization from the get-go and we are in just about every one of those conversations and seeing people deploy it as they look at a new reference architecture for the future to deliver cloud services.
(46:32) Heather next question please.
We will take our next question from Matt Hedberg with RBC Capital Markets.
Yes thanks guys.
I wanted to circle back on EVO:RAILs.
It seems to be doing well here.
I'm curious if you could talk a little bit about the pipeline ramp there with partners and then the competitive environment overall for a hyper-converged infrastructure would be helpful? Thank you.
Yes.
And EVO:RAIL it is getting a lot of interest.
It's still early.
We're very happy that almost all of the QEPs as we call them the partners that we have nine partners almost all of them are now shipping and so their pipelines are ramping.
The pipeline is building and expanding daily so we are seeing that some momentum ramping into the industry.
I was just in Asia last week and several of the partners launched their Asian versions and presence of the product so that is good.
So we do feel that being the case.
Obviously there are competitive alternatives in the industry as well and with those we clearly say a number of those are competition where many of those are selling into VMware accounts so VMware clearly is benefiting from them even as we have a offering with our hyper-converged EVO:RAIL through our partners that is a more complete easier to use and clearly a more accelerated offering into the marketplace.
We do expect that this will ramp up quite significantly as the year goes forward and as we conclude the year we think this will be a very big piece of the overall hyper-converged market will be represented by EVO:RAIL.
And as I've already indicated EVO:RACK will be coming forward in the second half of the year which will take that same appliance-like ease of use and bring it to data center scale with the EVO:RACK solutions and the partners we'll be announcing as part of that offering at VMworld.
Thank you Matt.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.
Yes.
Thank you.
Carl the field level research on NSX and VSAN and Horizon and some other areas is very very robust.
I think it gives us good confidence that VMware can realize this vision of the software-defined data center.
But I think at times we're struggling to weigh the growth of those products against the larger and more mature vSphere revenue stream and trying to determine at what level the growth trajectory of the business might bottom-out.
So I'm curious relative to the – you've given us this 7% adjusted billings number which is adjusting for FX and other factors.
And I think that's a bit lower than we're accustomed to.
Do you think it is possible that you're putting in a low-water mark on that trajectory for this year? Or is it possible that we would still see some of those adjusted numbers in a single-digit range? CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Mark maybe I'll take this and you can Carl add more about NSX if you'd like.
But Mark I'm glad you called out the calculation because we knew there was opportunity for confusion and just to make sure everybody's got it because we know everybody is going to be calculating those external – what we call external billings numbers or the calculated billings numbers 7% year-over-year for total and 9% year-over-year for license taking into account foreign exchange of basically around five points on the FX alone.
And then the effect of the acquired deferred revenue of AirWatch.
We're not guiding on billings as you know which is very consistent with what we've done for multiple years.
I think the most important guide that we're sharing with you as far top line performance is the revenue outlook and as you'll note we haven't changed that with the exception of the impact of the historic movements in foreign exchange that we've been seeing.
So we're sticking with the guide we've given.
We're confident in the outlook and I think the results for Q1 are off to a good start with the slight beat that we've just announced.
Do you want to add anything specific on NSX? Yes.
Mark you mentioned a couple products.
You're seeing some good traction or you're hearing about traction in the market around VSAN NSX.
Pat and I both covered both of those already.
And then the other one is around just end-user computing in general.
We grew the business as a whole greater than 50% year-over-year and that's a combination of the Desktop business as well as our AirWatch business.
And if you just look at the Desktop business on a standalone basis it grew greater than 15% year-over-year.
On both the Desktop and in the world of enterprise mobile management we think we're doing very very well and we're taking share from the competitors in both of those spaces and that's driving to a lot of our transactional success.
And we're also as we said earlier starting to see them become part of our ELAs as well.
So all of our net new products are starting to gain momentum in the market.
We'll keep our eye on them and we'll try to provide as much color and detail as we can going forward on how they're performing.
Thank you Mark.
Next question please.
And we will take our next question from Michael Turits with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good evening.
Question on ELAs.
It was a good number with 30%.
The long-term deferred growth rate was shorter than the short-term deferred rate.
But where are we in terms of the billing duration of ELAs? Are we still billing for something like close to three years upfront on ELAs? What's been the trend on that over time? And concern is whether or not that's been shortening and might have a negative impact on cash flow.
Yes.
Hey Mike I'll start off answering this question then I'll turn it over to Jonathan.
One thing we do track obviously is the duration of our ELAs meaning one two or three years.
And we have not seen any change in the duration of our ELAs.
We don't give you the exact numbers as you know Mike as you indicated but there's still roughly around that three-year period and that has not gone down whatsoever.
And I think there's two reasons for that.
Number one we do very good at renewing ELAs when they come up for renewals within the given quarter.
And don't forget still greater than and well greater than 50% of our ELAs are net new and our customers continue to want to enter into long-term business arrangements with us because they see the strategic direction in which VMware is going.
So we haven't seen any change to the duration of ELAs here in Q1.
And I'll ask Jonathan to give some more color.
CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> And Michael just to maybe give you a couple of data points.
When I look at the components of long-term deferreds the license long-term deferred actually grew at a faster rate than the overall average that you're calculating.
The services component was the one you saw a little bit lower and within that professional services deferreds were actually at a lower level.
So while they're a smaller component they actually grew lower than the average and so I get a little bit less concerned about that than I think your question infers mainly because that's very much tied to projects it's tied to credits that we've sold customers with respect to engagements with customers and engagements with them on key projects.
So that coming down is actually a good sign in some ways because it shows that customers are consuming those long-term professional services projects that we've had sold to them.
So the biggest item that went although it was on the lower end in long-term deferred was PSO as opposed to license which was particularly strong year over year.
Thank you Michael.
Inc.</span></strong> Just a clarification.
Go ahead.
Clarify please.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes just a clarification.
Carl when you said that the ELAs duration stayed around three years I just really want to make sure we're talking about the billing duration not the contract duration.
In other words you're still billing the same number of years and months upfront? Yes.
CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> That's accurate.
Yes that's accurate.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks a lot.
Thank you Michael.
Next question please.
We will take our next question from Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I wanted to return to the EUC business.
The 50% constant currency license bookings is pretty impressive.
If Desktop was up 15% that would imply AirWatch must have been up a super healthy call it 75% to 100%.
And I have two questions.
One is are these bookings growth rates decent proxies for revenue growth for the EUC business? And secondly Jonathan how confident are you that these growth rates can be sustained in the coming quarters? Thank you.
CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Well I think the way to look at the business you are calculating some pretty good proxies.
We're extremely pleased with the AirWatch business and the Desktop business this quarter and you've got the stated numbers for growth correct.
When I think about the revenue growth for the business while we don't break it out clearly we're seeing solid solid contributions from both AirWatch and from the Desktop business not just on bookings but also on license and total revenue so we're really really encouraged.
I think right now when we think about where the market is we've been gaining market share over the last couple of years against our nearest competitors in the Desktop space and frankly the momentum we're seeing suggests that that doesn't feel like it's going to slow down.
When we look at the mobility space we are the number one player in that space.
And with the backing not just of the strength of the technology that the AirWatch team bring to the fore but also the interaction with the rest of our business we're now starting to see some very solid uplift coming from Carl's core sales team which is really encouraging and that was one of the key things behind the acquisition and the premise behind it.
So I'd say that I think our End-User Computing business is if anything doing better and this is now the sixth quarter since we've brought the new management team in place and they're really knocking it out of the park.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just briefly on top of that there is so much untapped market particularly in the mobile space of devices that aren't yet managed that are used by businesses or touch businesses so there's a lot of space for that continued growth of AirWatch and we're adding more to the product and the portfolio of capabilities.
We're also combining it with capabilities like NSX which allow us to give a secure end-user desktop or a secure mobile experience that we start to really create a reinforcing spiral between the product lines as well.
So we're super excited about it independently as part of the overall workspace suite and as it sits into the total portfolio of VMware's offerings.
CFO &amp; Executive VP</span></strong> Thank you Karl.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks.
I think we have time for one last question so the last question please.
And we will take our next question from Jason Maynard with Wells Fargo.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I just wanted maybe to get a little bit of color on the transactional business? Obviously ELAs came in a little bit better than expected but curious if you guys can call out any of the trends or pricing or geographic data just around that core transactional business? And maybe some of the non-bundled product sales? Thanks.
Yes so let me take that Jason.
Appreciate the question.
So we were pleased not just with our ELA business in the quarter but we were actually pleased with our transactional business in the quarter.
We were really pleased with our VSAN business which is our vSphere with operations management which allows us to sell a bundled solution for not just compute but how you manage and operate in that environment.
And our AirWatch business was very healthy once again and that drove to solid execution across the board on our transactional business.
We continue to see the channel pickup our if you will mantra of No More Naked vSphere sales.
Our channel continues to drive the transactional business very well for us.
We continue to incent them to do that and to move away from selling No More Naked vSphere.
So just overall we're pleased with the Transactional business and I would call out VSAN as a continued strength.
AirWatch is another and then everything else performed as we expected in the quarter.
So just solid performance across the board both transactionally and with our larger deal business.
And maybe I missed it though.
If I look at the ELA percentage on a year-over-year basis increasing what does that imply then for the transactional business growth rate? I don't want to mess up the math on it but what do you guys come up with? No Jason.
I think it's a good question.
I think when you're probably doing your calculations on the transactional business I'd just ask you to look at three different things.
First of all in Q1 last year we had a really solid one of our better quarters transactionally so your year-over-year is probably a little bit tougher on a compare.
But there's also two other things that I'd ask that you take into account.
It's one you have to normalize for FX and then the second is we had a bunch of acquired AirWatch deferred revenue that came into Q1 of last year that will – when you do that because that falls into the transactional business it will show it down more than it actually is when we compare and contrast it internally to our own bookings metrics.
Great.
Thanks Carl.
And thank you Jason for asking for that clarification.
And before we conclude I think Pat will have a final comment.
Yes thank you Paul.
In summary Q1 was a solid start to the year.
We appreciate the time that you all invest with us today and we look forward to speaking with you again in three months when we report our Q3 results.
Thank you very much.
And this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you again for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good day and welcome to the VMware second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Paul Ziots Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President &amp; Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We've also included in our earnings release and posted on our website a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP data for constant currency growth in revenues plus sequential change in unearned revenues for Q2 2015 and Q2 2014 excluding the reduction of revenues due to the GSA settlement in Q2 2015.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to and not a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect on our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of acquired intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software certain litigation and other related items acquisition-related items and realignment-related net gains and charges and as mentioned the reduction of revenues due to the GSA settlement in Q2 2015.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliation with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
The webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our third quarter 2015 quiet period begins at the close of business September 15 2015.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
Our second quarter results are solid following a solid start to the year in Q1.
Q2 non-GAAP revenue was at the top of our guidance range representing growth of 13% year on year in constant currency.
And we exceeded our non-GAAP EPS guidance for the quarter.
Earlier this year we outlined our One Cloud Any Application Any Device strategy and announced the industry's first unified platform of virtualized compute network and storage for the hybrid cloud.
This quarter we outlined the next phase of this strategy with new solutions services and partnerships for Business Mobility that enable organizations to transform their business processes.
Some of the highlights included the introduction of VMware Identity Manager the industry's first identity-as-a-service offering integrated with our leading enterprise-class mobility management and security platform which provides IT with a central place to manage end user provisioning access and compliance.
We also announced further commitment to Apple devices and the iOS platform with plans to deliver application configuration templates and vertical solutions.
In addition we were delighted to welcome fifteen new partners including DocuSign and Dropbox and MicroStrategy to the ACE program which provides a set of open and vendor-neutral standards for developing secure mobile applications.
Overall our EUC business performed particularly well this quarter including strong performance with our AirWatch offering.
It was also been an exciting quarter in the area of cloud services as we continue to expand our offerings around the world.
Complementing VMware's vCloud Air Network of service providers we announced general availability of a new VMware-operated location in Australia which provides customers with a local Asia-Pacific hybrid cloud service that helps address local compliance and data locality needs.
This service was launched in partnership with Telstra a great example of a customer strongly aligned with all members of the EMC Federation.
Carl will talk about a number of the large wins we enjoyed this quarter which include some key Federation-level wins.
We continue to see increased opportunities to deliver superior value to our joint customers.
In April we announced two new VMware open source projects designed to enable enterprise adoption of cloud-native applications Project Lightwave an enterprise identity and access management solution which also enables scalable security for containers; and Project Photon a lightweight Linux operating system focused on container and cloud-native applications.
Together these projects are already helping customers develop run and manage secure cloud-native applications.
Building on these announcements we recently unveiled two new technology previews designed to streamline cloud-native application development and deployment.
VMware AppCatalyst delivers an API-driven environment to developer laptops and Project Bonneville will enable seamless integration of Docker containers into VMware vSphere.
These innovations will help enterprises develop run and manage secure cloud-native applications from building them through a simple and easy to use development tool to running Docker containers securely in production on VMware vSphere.
This continues to deliver on our vision of containers without compromise which you will hear more about during our upcoming VMworld conference.
We also saw some very successful deployments of VMware Integrated OpenStack with a number of our major accounts integrating our OpenStack offering with their vSphere-based enterprise infrastructure.
We made several key partnership announcements this past quarter and I wanted to take a moment to just mention a few.
Intel Security and VMware announced an integrated solution based on the VMware NSX network virtualization platform to provide intelligent intrusion prevention services IPS for the protection of east-west traffic within the data center.
Recently Check Point Software and VMware announced an expanded collaboration to extend comprehensive best-in-class security to enterprise private cloud environments.
We have continued to build on our support of network functions virtualization in the telco space which I talked about last quarter.
Ooredoo Kuwait has successfully deployed both NFV and IT applications on a single unified cloud based on vCloud for NFV.
And last week we announced that Internet Initiative Japan Inc.
has selected the platform for a new Virtual CPE service they are launching later this year.
Our technology leadership and customer momentum continues to be recognized by leading industry analysts.
Some of the key reports published in Q2 included Gartner recognizing AirWatch by VMware as a leader with the highest ability to execute in its 2015 Magic Quadrant for Enterprise Mobility Management.
VMware has been positioned as a visionary in their 2015 Magic Quadrant for Data Center Networking and in their Magic Quadrant for Cloud Infrastructure as a Service Worldwide.
Last week Gartner published its latest x86 Server Virtualization MQ.
For the sixth year in a row VMware is placed as a leader with both the highest ability to execute and highest completeness of vision.
IDC also recognized VMware in a number of reports including positioning us as a leader in their 2015 MarketScape for Worldwide Client Computing Software.
We were particularly pleased that IDC recognized AirWatch by VMware as number one in both market share and revenue in their EMM market share report.
Once again we are expecting well over 20 000 attendees for VMworld in San Francisco which kicks off on August 30th.
With this year's theme: Ready for Any VMworld attendees will enjoy a week of in-depth training hands on experience breakout sessions and networking opportunities with industry experts.
I hope to see many of you at our financial analyst meeting on August 31st which we are holding as part of VMworld San Francisco.
I'll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q2.
Thank you Pat.
We delivered a solid quarter in Q2 and our customer operations teams around the world did a good job closing large deals.
We remain optimistic about our market opportunity around our three strategic businesses: hybrid cloud software-defined data center and end user computing.
Taking a look at our Q2 regional bookings performance on a constant currency basis in relative terms Asia-Pacific performed best followed by the Americas and EMEA.
In Asia-Pacific we were particularly pleased with our performance in Japan and Southeast Asia.
For the first time though we saw a significant slowdown in our China business.
We expect this weakness to continue into the second half of the year.
In the Americas we were pleased with our performance across our Enterprise segment partially offset by weakness in Brazil.
In EMEA we were pleased with our business in Northern Europe.
Our year-over-year compare was difficult in Germany due to two large transactions a year ago.
Russia continued to be challenging due to the economic environment.
In Q2 we saw solid execution in our large deals.
Enterprise agreements were approximately 39% of total second quarter bookings which was the second highest quarter contribution ever.
This is up from approximately 37% last Q2.
This strong performance demonstrates customers' commitment to investing in VMware's expanded solution offerings.
We closed seven deals at or over $10 million in the quarter and had a healthy mix of new enterprise agreements as well as EA renewals.
New EAs continue to be over 50% of total EAs.
Our large deals increasingly include components across our business.
For example nine of the top ten deals contained EUC and five of our top ten deals contained NSX.
This reflects the strategic value our customers rely on from VMware.
One example of this strategic value was the closing of a large strategic agreement with Mizuho Bank one of the largest banks in Japan by helping their project to develop and deploy a new infrastructure for their core banking system.
VMware was pleased to renew our business relationship with the United States Postal Service in Q2.
USPS is a long-time customer who has utilized VMware software for a variety of needs.
The new enterprise agreement includes the vCloud Suite NSX Horizon Desktop Virtualization AirWatch for enterprise mobile management and vCloud Government Service for hybrid cloud connectivity.
The new software from VMware provides organizations including the Postal Service with the ability to be more agile increase performance and increase their security posture at a time when the threats are becoming more pervasive every day.
End user computing continued their market momentum with an especially strong performance in Q2.
End user computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 30% year-over-year in Q2 on a constant currency basis.
The desktop license business grew over 15% year-over-year on a constant currency basis and we believe we once again gained share from the competition during the quarter.
AirWatch grew license bookings over 60% year-over-year in Q2 on a constant currency basis.
We believe we remain the clear leader in enterprise mobile management.
In Q2 our end user computing sales growth benefited from the leverage due to our integration of AirWatch into VMware including greater reach due to VMware's global presence leverage from our robust channel and access to enterprise accounts via our sales force.
The success is demonstrated through AirWatch being in a number of our larger EAs for the first time and mobility being a door opener to the CIO's office.
Cloud management saw solid license bookings growth in Q2 helped by strong double-digit year-over-year growth from vSphere with operations.
We were particularly pleased with our vSOM growth driven by our continued ability to execute on our no-naked vSphere strategy.
Our cloud management penetration is now nearly 16% of our installed base leaving plenty of headroom for growth.
We saw continued momentum in Q2 for our network virtualization solution VMware NSX.
Looking back at our first half performance of NSX we are pleased that we nearly doubled our license bookings versus the same period of last year.
Our pipeline continues to grow and the number of customers doing proof of concept continues to accelerate every quarter.
The number of NSX paying customers has now increased to over 700 versus over 150 a year ago.
We believe the number of production customers using NSX far outweighs that of any competitor.
The predominant pattern in our production deployments has been network automation and micro-segmentation where micro-segmentation has served as the initial purchase justification.
In Q2 we expanded our partnership with SAP to include networking with NSX.
SAP plans to deploy NSX to accelerate network provisioning increase flexibility and implement a new level of security with micro-segmentation.
Summarizing a few other product areas our Virtual SAN customer count has increased to over 2 000 versus over 1 000 just two quarters ago.
And in relation to hybrid cloud in Q2 we saw continued strengthening with a number of key service provider partners.
One of those partners Telstra will be leveraging VMware software defined datacenter architecture to deliver infrastructure as a service for both internal IT consumption and public-facing IAAS services.
Our relationship with Telstra is off to a good start.
In Q2 we completed the incorporation of VMware NSX into vCloud Air with the release of VMware vCloud Air Advanced Networking Services.
This allows seamless environment extensions fewer network or architectural conflicts and the ability to run any application workload anywhere.
In conclusion we are excited about the future and are well positioned to lead the industry with the most complete portfolio in the company's history.
We continue to make investments in enabling our sales force and channel around our new growth products and market opportunities.
We remain confident about our opportunities for the second half of 2015 and beyond.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
[008N67-E Jonathan Chadwick] Thank you Carl.
We're pleased with our Q2 performance as our non-GAAP total revenue hit the top of our revenue guidance and we exceeded our non-GAAP EPS guidance.
In addition license bookings beyond standalone vSphere were greater than 60% of total license bookings up from greater than 50% in Q2 2014 and up from more than 35% two years ago.
We continue to diversify our business expanding our portfolio of products for enabling the software-defined enterprise.
Q2 total non-GAAP revenues were $1.6 billion up 13% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 10% as reported.
Q2 license revenues were $638 million up 9% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 4% as reported.
Revenues from our hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings were greater than 6% of our Q2 non-GAAP total revenues with a growth rate of over 80% year-over-year.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q2 was $0.93 per share on approximately 427 million shares and as planned continue to reflect the dilutive effect of the acquisition of AirWatch in 2014.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 4.7 million shares of stock for a total of $412 million.
Over the first half of 2015 we have bought back over 10 million shares for a total of approximately $850 million.
As I mentioned six months ago we set out to repurchase over $1 billion of stock this year with the intent that this would be weighted towards the front end of the year.
Given the activity so far we now anticipate that we will buy back approximately $1.25 billion of stock over the full year 2015.
Our balance sheet remained strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter-end of $7 billion.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $4.8 billion up 10% from Q2 2014 with $1.8 billion in long-term unearned revenues up 7% year-over-year.
We're aware that many of you used the calculation of revenue plus sequential change in unearned revenue as an estimate for bookings.
To help you with this calculation this quarter we have once again included a table with growth rates for these calculated figures in our financial statements.
The table is also in the slide deck accompanying this call.
To summarize this data in Q2 the growth rate for non-GAAP total revenues plus change in unearned revenues was approximately 5% year-over-year.
The growth rate for license revenues plus change in unearned license revenues was approximately 9% year-over-year.
These growth rates adjust for the impact of currency on revenues and unearned revenues.
Turning to guidance for 2015.
For total non-GAAP revenues and for license revenues we are reiterating the midpoints of prior guidance and tightening the ranges.
We expect non-GAAP total revenues for 2015 to be between $6.575 billion and $6.685 billion or up 9% to 11% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 12% to 14% year over year.
We expect license revenues for the full year to be between $2.710 billion and $2.765 billion or up 5% to 7% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 9% to 11% year-over-year.
As a reminder we continue to monitor the effective growth in our hybrid cloud and SaaS businesses.
We see opportunities for faster progress in this category than we anticipated at the start of the year.
We're tracking this carefully given the solid growth we continue to experience and the opportunities we have for expanding this business going forward.
We'll spend time discussing additional growth revs for this portion of our business at our financial analyst meeting on August 31st.
In 2015 we continue to expect full year non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 31.5% which balances some margin expansion against continued investment in our growth businesses.
As a reminder we are planning for AirWatch to be EPS neutral exiting the fourth quarter of 2015.
This means that we expect AirWatch to begin contributing profits in 2016 although not at the same level as our corporate average.
Regarding cash flow from operations while we managed cash flow well in Q2 we made an unplanned payment of over $75 million related to the General Services Administration settlement.
Taking this into account we are lowering our cash flow from operations expectation for 2015 from approximately $1.95 billion to approximately $1.875 billion.
In addition we now expect capital expenditures to be approximately $350 million for the year or approximately $50 million less than prior expectations.
There are no other changes to our cash flow outlook for 2015.
We are modeling a share count of approximately 427 million shares for the year and are raising our non-GAAP EPS guidance for the year by approximately $0.02 a share to be between $3.97 and $4.03 per share.
Shifting to Q3 2015.
We expect total reported revenue to be between $1.645 billion and $1.665 billion or up 9% to 10% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 12% to 13% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q3 are expected to be between $675 million to $685 million or up 6% to 7% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 10% to 12% year-over-year.
For Q3 we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 31% and non-GAAP EPS of between $0.98 and $1 per share.
Remaining guidance for Q3 and 2015 is included in the slide deck posted on our Investor Relations website.
In summary we're pleased with our solid Q2 performance following a solid Q1 and we look forward to seeing you on August 31st at our financial analyst meeting at VMworld.
With that I will turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let's get started.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thank you.
I just wanted to ask a question about the ELA renewal cycle.
Obviously you always have one going on.
You have a particularly large one coming up in calendar 2016.
I was wondering if you could talk about the importance of these big cycles in terms of getting customers to broaden their product portfolio.
How do you see it as an opportunity to expand the product footprint that your customers have? Thank you.
Thank you very much Heather for the question.
It's always great to have you on the call.
And maybe before we get started into the Q&amp;A as we said during our prepared remarks our second quarter results are solid following a solid start to the year in Q1 and we do see – I'm glad for you question Heather great progress in the newer products with license bookings now beyond standalone vSphere over 60% of total license bookings up from just 35% just two years ago.
So overall great progress overall.
And Carl maybe you can comment a bit more on how we see the ELA cycle affecting the new products in the rest of the year? Yeah sure.
Thanks Pat and thanks Heather for the question.
So as a quick reminder Heather it's important to note that greater than 50% of our enterprise agreements are actually new ones and our customers see enterprise agreements as a good buying vehicle to get frictionless access to our technologies for their future needs.
Our enterprise agreement renewals are important to us as you can imagine and there are quarters when we have more opportunity to renew these deals versus others.
And we have had a really good track record of renewing our EAs in the quarter that they expire.
In some cases we pull them in early.
In other cases they go from one quarter to the next.
But overall if you look at our ability to renew our enterprise agreements it's very good.
As far as getting our new products into enterprise agreements I would say both net new enterprise agreements and the renewal of enterprise agreements are absolutely a key mechanism for us to get our newer technologies into our customers' hands.
And a lot of our larger deals as I had indicated in my prepared remarks include some of our newer products.
For example nine of the top ten deals included end user computing; five of our top ten deals this quarter included NSX; and we had a number of deals that also included AirWatch now that our sales teams are driving AirWatch into the market in conjunction with the rest of the VMware portfolio.
And we're even seeing the inclusion of vCloud Air.
So and we do see both net new and the renewal of EAs as a key mechanism of getting customers our newer technologies Thank you Heather.
The next question please? We'll take our next question from Brent Thill with UBS.
Thank you.
Just as it relates to the Government business.
You're coming into an important period in the year.
I'm just curious – there was obviously a lot of concern from investors around the Government contract and you've been pretty clear that you're still doing a lot of business on a standalone basis with each division but how that's tracking and what your view is headed into the September fiscal yearend? Yeah so thanks for the question Brent.
Let me take that.
This is Carl.
So before I talk in specifics about the Federal business I think some late flashing news is the fact that today actually today the Government released a DoD virtualization RFI to the market that was very similar to the JLA (27:44) that they released earlier this year that people responded to.
And then releasing as an RFI allows both VMware and our partners to respond to the RFI which is very heavily driven towards a VMware solution set but it also allows the rest of the market to look at what the Government is looking for across their virtualization environment.
Once the RFI is responded to at some point the Government will then ultimately issue an RFP for their virtualization solutions as a whole.
And as we've said in the past we at VMware don't dictate or drive the timing of this but we will continue to work with our friends at the Government as they look to bring this to market and closure in the future.
In the meantime we continue to work very closely with the Government.
We had a really solid Q1 in our Government and Federal business.
We had an okay quarter in Q2.
But probably what we're most excited about is the pipeline that we've built in Q2 as we head into the very large which is a large buying season in Q3 because it's the Government's fiscal yearend.
So we're looking forward to a big Q3 from the Federal Government and we have deep meaningful relationships.
And we're very pleased with our Federal business and continue to focus on it both in Q3 and beyond.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please? And we'll take our next question comes from Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse.
Hey thanks guys.
And congrats on a good quarter.
You talked about a lot of underlying metrics that are positive obviously on the new businesses NSX and VSAN and then obviously Carl just commented on the ELA portfolio for the second half.
But I guess the question for the whole team when you look at your second half guidance it does call for accelerating license growth.
So when you do look through sort of your portfolio heading into the second half what gives you the confidence in that accelerating license growth? Is it particular products such as NSX or VSAN or is it the renewal portfolio? Or just maybe help us kind of parse that through.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Phil yeah this is Jonathan.
Let me just take that and I'll ask Carl to give a little bit more color.
As we previously stated not just actually this year but frankly the last two years the second half is shaping up to be stronger than the second half.
We saw the similar performance in 2013 and 2014.
Obviously we executed in both of those years.
We are seeing somewhat increased seasonality.
Some of the factors that are coming into this as you'd expect as we are transitioning from being a very singly product-focused company to a broader portfolio of products we're seeing stronger growth from newer products obviously expect the dollar value of those to have an effect.
The EA renewal cycle as we approach the second half also expected to have something of an impact.
And as a reminder currency is expected to have a bigger impact over the course of the year as well.
So that acceleration those three or four factors haven't really changed consistent with what we have been saying and frankly consistent with what we have been saying over the last couple of years and what we have seen frankly.
Do you want to add Carl? Yeah.
So let me give a little color around our newer products or what we call our growth or emerging products.
When we look at in aggregate our newer products we're very pleased with the growth rates we're seeing on a year-over-year basis.
And as you could expect some of them are actually growing faster than others.
But as a whole we're very pleased with the growth rate.
If I were just to double click on that slightly further in Q2 we were very pleased with our AirWatch business.
It continues to grow very rapidly for us.
And we also saw very good growth in vCloud Air our hybrid cloud solution and solid growth around NSX which now has more than 700 customers and VSAN which has more than 2 000 customers.
So in aggregate we're very pleased.
Again some are growing faster than others but we think we are going to see the impact of these in both the second half and beyond.
Thank you Phil.
Next question please? And we'll take our next question from Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch.
Hi.
Thank you guys.
I know some time back you talked about a target for ELA as a percentage of bookings.
Can you just give us an update? I think some time back you said 60% 70% or so.
And also what are your goals for non-vSphere billings or bookings as a percentage of total billings in the next few years? Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Kash this is Jonathan.
And Carl and Pat obviously weigh in as you see fit.
But I think what we shared in the past is we wouldn't be surprised if we saw ELA as a percentage of revenue – percentage of bookings excuse me getting as high as 50%.
That's as far as I think we said we would see.
And again I think there's a lot of space between 39 and 50.
But again the way we're seeing customers continue to engage deeply with us would suggest that's certainly a possibility.
And then I think I shared as recently as – I think Paul it was last analyst day we were talking about the potential for the mix and our goal coming from non-vSphere products from a license billing perspective getting north of 80%.
Frankly our goal ultimately is to get completely away from selling what we call naked vSphere.
And that will show up as that number approaches 80% and goes frankly even beyond that.
There's no reason why theoretically that shouldn't be ultimately 100%.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please? We'll take our next question from Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi thanks.
For Jonathan it feels like in your forecast you had very strong large deal activity.
I think you mentioned seven deals greater than $10 million.
And you were slightly ahead of your license guidance.
I just want to get a sense as to how you're forecasting large deals as we go into the second half? Are you sort of forecasting this level of elevated large deals to be able to hit the guide or do you have more of a margin for error as you build the forecast for Q3 and Q4? Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Well it's a great question.
Again the way the process works is we'll take the overall forecast that we get from the field.
Carl and I look at that overall.
We're looking at that pipeline.
We're looking at conversion ratios.
We're looking at large deals specifically.
And as we talked about in the context often over the last few months associated with the Federal deal no one particular deal is something that's predicating or driving our guidance overall.
We're looking at all of that as we've looked at our mix overall.
As is typical we're expecting a strong ELA cycle in the Q4 timeframe.
Q3 we're expecting as Carl has just talked about a stronger Federal cycle.
We take all of that into account as we lay out our flows over the course of each and every quarter that we're facing.
So I wouldn't say that we're tied to any one particular deal cycle or any one particular deal.
We're certainly expecting a strong ELA cycle as we approach our fiscal fourth quarter but nothing particularly abnormal in that regard I wouldn't say.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you Walter.
Thank you.
Next question please? We will take our next question come from John DiFucci with Jefferies.
Thank you.
I'm going to skip the ELAs for a second.
But I would like to talk a little bit about the Integrated OpenStack.
And you guys have been talking about that and we're hearing a lot about OpenStack in the field.
If it works it makes a ton of sense.
But when you work with OpenStack because there's others that just talk about the pure open source OpenStack which is a really tough problem to solve when you work with OpenStack how much of the solution is VMware and other proprietary software versus open source technology? And I know that I'm not looking for an exact number but it just seems like a very difficult problem to solve with pure open source technology.
And I'm just curious as to how much you have to contribute to make it work? Yeah.
It's a great question and thanks John.
This is Pat and I will take that one.
In general what customers have found is taking all of the pure open source technologies implementing OpenStack with that they found it's just immature and very difficult to stand up and particularly quite labor-intensive for them requiring fairly large numbers of high quality engineering folks.
So it's just a hard thing to go build a parallel silo.
Our strategy has been add the OpenStack components on top of the VMware ingredients so taking all of those pieces that are part of it like Neutron adding the Nova management layer adding the storage components adding those APIs but building it on the world-class NSX vSphere technologies et cetera.
And that combination allows them to fully leverage everything that they're doing in that environment and not standing up a parallel environment.
And the result is they get rock hard and they get all of these new APIs on top of it.
So it enables CIOs to say yes to their developer communities very easily.
And this quarter we saw good momentum.
We had one of the world's largest sportswear retailers stand up very effectively their OpenStack environment.
Amadeus in Europe stood up their OpenStack environment.
SunGard AS stood up their OpenStack environment.
All of those building on top of their VMware installed base and having very rapid ability to get that operational in their environment.
And that has just stood very starkly right? This happens in days.
That's taken in some cases years for people to stand up the alternative.
And this is really enabling ITs with a powerful new set of capabilities and we're quite pleased with that momentum and a good pipeline of activities for the second half of the year.
But Pat how much is the...
The one thing I'd add – Pat covered most everything but John the one thing I would add is we see a lot of customers who go out and attempt to stand up an OpenStack cloud themselves.
And it's quite often if not very often they come back and ask for our help either to build out an entire VMware stack or build out an entire VMware stack with our VMware Integrated OpenStack solution because they underestimated the complexity of building it themselves.
So oftentimes it boomerangs back to us and we have those conversations quite frequently.
And maybe John I think you're trying to probe on just how much of code and those pieces.
Off the top of my head I don't have a good answer to that.
But maybe we'll follow up with you and give you a more precise understanding of that.
But these are substantial pieces from OpenStack combined with the very substantial pieces that are in place with the VMware stack today.
And we will give you more clarity in that as a follow-up.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you John.
Next question please? We'll take our next question from Raimo Lenschow with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey thanks for taking my question.
The first one is if you look at the pipeline growing on the ELA side and if I look at where the strong performance was this quarter can you talk a little bit what you see in customer conversations in terms of cycle? Do people feel better and hence spending looks a little bit better? That's the feeling I got from you guys from SAP earlier on this morning.
And then maybe a quick one for Jonathan.
If I look at cash cash flow this year there's a lot f factors that will impact you negatively.
How do I think about it in 2016? Is that all going to be a tailwind? Or maybe just quickly walk us through to make sure that we model this correctly.
Thank you.
That is two questions Raimo.
Could you please pick one? I hate to be the bad guy here.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh sorry.
Take the second one maybe I'll follow up.
Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Okay.
Cash flow is that right? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> All right.
So we obviously identified another item this year: the GSA item the settlement which as you obviously picked up went out as a payment this quarter.
$76 million roughly being paid out.
Raimo I don't want to comment extensively regarding 2016 at this point we're only halfway through 2015.
But in the context of 2015 remember there's three or four things now that drove our cash flow growth rate down in 2015.
And I'll just recap those.
The AirWatch founder payments the GSA item we just talked about tax and foreign exchange all became headwinds to growth.
And if I break that down as I think about what's recurring and what sort of just sort of the new level we're at the AirWatch founder payments and GSA both become tailwinds as they largely go away.
We'll have a small $25 million to $27 million payment in Q1 of 2016 for AirWatch.
I hope we don't have another GSA settlement.
So at that point both of those items largely speaking should not reoccur in 2016.
When I think about tax and foreign exchange headwinds those really reflect the new normal.
They were headwinds to growth as they increased substantially.
They will continue.
We obviously continue to pay tax at these new levels but we don't expect them to increase at the same rate.
But they won't reverse completely as some are currently modeling.
So I'd just encourage you guys to think and model accordingly.
And then finally as I think about cash flow growth overall cash flow growth roughly at the same level of operating income growth when we're in a normalized environment is how I would think about it.
And just to clarify my humor I was trying to inject a little bit of humor.
Pat was giving me a look when I talked about the GSA settlement.
That was obviously a one-off item.
And we don't see any further recurrence of that at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Even me as a German got that.
(41:45) Thank you Raimo.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah no thank you.
Sometimes I have to translate for the Americans.
And thank you for that.
And thank you for understanding on the one question.
The next question please? We'll take our next question from Matt Hedberg with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks for taking my question guys.
Your hybrid cloud service seems to be doing really well yet you're taking your CapEx expectations down by $50 million.
I'm wondering what's driving that.
And how should we think about your CapEx build as your infrastructure continues to expand with some of these additional services? Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah Matt I'll take that and Pat maybe if you want to add as well.
But we started out the year with a number of capital projects not just around our hybrid cloud business buildout occurring.
Obviously as I think you probably have seen or are aware we had a large campus buildout over the last few years.
We also were building out a number of other office locations including our Bangalore facilities.
And as we've managed our budgets over the course of the year and as we've managed the flow those have enabled us to tighten our CapEx outlook for the year.
We have invested very heavily in the first half with respect to the hybrid cloud buildout so I wouldn't read anything into it in terms of a slowdown.
Again our model is one of taking pods getting those deployed in a fairly deterministic manner as we're deploying just ahead of demand.
And that model I think is moving ahead quite well.
We invested heavily in the first half as we were expanding geographically around the world in places like Australia and Japan in particular.
We're largely embedded in those territories right now and now we're on to the expansion as we think about matching the growth rate of the business overall.
So I feel very comfortable with that $350 million CapEx forecast as opposed to the $400 million we talked about just a quarter ago.
Yeah and maybe just to add a little bit.
As Jonathan said we've planted flags geographically.
Now we're growing the capabilities in those geographies and filling those infrastructure and now they become more run rate buildouts.
The service itself is growing very nicely.
Key things this quarter and things like launching DR version 2 write database as a service the integration of NSX for hybrid networking capabilities is a huge differentiator and now some of our largest customers on vCloud Air are uniquely taking advantage of that.
And as we mentioned on the overall financials hybrid cloud and SaaS 6% of total revenue and growing at over 80% per year.
So these are really starting to become capabilities at the market our customers and will start incrementally influencing our financials.
Great thank you.
Thank you Matt.
Next question please? We'll take our next question from Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Hi this is Sanjit Singh for Keith Weiss.
Jonathan I wanted to step back and get your take on the levels of investment that will be needed call it over the medium term.
You talked a couple of quarters ago about trying to figure out the right level of investment as you ramp up your hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings from a professional services standpoint as well as from a CapEx standpoint.
Given that we're a couple quarters into your buildouts do you have a view of what professional services look like? I'm really getting to what we should think about in terms of longer-term operating margins? Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yes Sanjit thanks for the question.
We have over the last two years or so and Carl can comment as well on this in even more detail but we've invested very heavily in PSO.
We have over 1 700 people now professionals in our global PSO organization.
And as you'd appreciate PSO in general compared to a software margin business is a lower margin.
All of that is encompassed in our gross and operating margin results and the operating margin outlook we've shared.
I do see the opportunity for operating margin expansion as we get into 2016.
But we are balancing all the investments as we think about the newer growth areas newer product areas that we are investing in.
So I think we're going to continue to manage that.
Some of the other areas of investment that you've seen.
AirWatch one of the biggest areas of investment that we have had over the course of the last two years obviously dampened operating margin performance but really doing a nice job as we're tracking right to strategy.
In fact as you heard on the call slightly above in Q2.
We are still on track for EPS neutrality in Q4 2015 with the view of bringing AirWatch to being profit generating as we get into 2016.
It will still be below our corporate average in terms of overall operating margin.
When I look at all of those things – PSO AirWatch the other emerging businesses the balance we are striking here and I think we're doing a pretty good job of it is managing operating returns to the bottom line with the need to invest in growth businesses that are going to be around for many many years.
And specific to the PSO as Jonathan said over the last couple of years we have invested quite heavily in our PSO go-to-market strategy and brought a lot of consultants and solution architects on board.
One of the reasons for that as you all know we brought a number of new technologies to market.
And when you introduce a new technology there are times when you need to make sure that you're investing ahead of the curve to have the service capabilities to implement them for the customers.
As time goes on though we expect to leverage all the IP that we built around our professional services engagement and leverage it by giving it to our channel and our partners.
And as we do that and they become more skilled to implement our newer solutions in return we should get better operating margin lift as a company as we kind of outsource a lot of that service delivery to our partner community.
Thank you Sanjit.
Next question please? And we'll take our next question from Michael Turits with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Fantastic to see not only the quarter but the reiteration for the full year.
The billings growth is still lagging the revenue growth.
And I understand there are tough comps.
But is there any impact at all from duration on ELAs and ELA renewals? Are they perhaps shortening? And is that affecting billings? Or is duration okay and it's just the tough comps? Yeah Michael this is Carl.
I'll take that.
When we look at the duration of both our ELAs as well as our maintenance and our renewals of our support and subscription business we've seen no material change whatsoever here in Q2.
It's been very consistent to what we've seen over the last many quarters.
So we're very pleased with how customers continue to renew their agreements with us both on the maintenance side as well as enterprise agreements.
And there has been really no change at all in our durations of the contracts with our customers.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> And on the billings side you probably saw long-term deferred revenue grow at a slightly slower pace than overall deferred.
When we've unpacked that number inside the overall deferred revenue you do see an element of PSO in there as well.
And even though we've been investing in this particular quarter we actually saw a slightly lower attach rate of long-term PSO deferred revenue to ELAs.
So that was basically the driver there Michael.
Thank you Michael.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Next question please.
And we'll take our next question from Abhey Lamba with Mizuho Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
Carl or Pat upon looking at emerging initiatives that you have in place currently we look at NSX VSAN and vCloud Air  which one do you expect to be more impactful to your revenues and bookings in the next 12 months to 18 months? And how does that change if we think about the next three to five years? It would be helpful if you can stack rank them in terms of their ability to move the needle for you.
Thanks.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> So I will give you the CFO's view and then I'll ask the CEO to comment as well more strategically.
Abhey we're not going to stack rank them.
I get this question periodically as well.
As I know you appreciate these are earlier stage and therefore subject to significant variability as we think about what can actually occur.
What we're really excited about if I picked the top three right now I'd say VCA as you've seen is starting to really fire nicely.
NSX continues to show very very solid growth.
We saw over 700 customers now cumulatively.
And AirWatch on mobility solutions really just had a phenomenal quarter.
As we track into 2016 I think all three of those I would expect to be significant growth drivers as we go forward.
But I don't want to take that away from the rest of our product portfolios as well.
But those three do jump to top of my mind.
Yeah.
And I think nothing would be surprising.
These are early market products.
The longer they've been in market the more we've matured the selling motion and started to build customer base they're getting bigger respectively.
AirWatch already had a reasonable run rate when we acquired it and we've seen phenomenal success at accelerating that.
Jonathan commented on NSX and on vCloud Air.
VSAN is clearly trailing NSX be it's just a year less mature in the marketplace.
And I'd also add to that list the success and management.
And the management product line is the most mature of those.
It has become a very standard element of our product offerings through vSOM vCloud Suites standalone management sales.
We've continued and again we were recognized by IDC this last quarter as number one in cloud management with a substantial market share lead over number two and three.
So of them clearly management is the largest and the most mature but as we've discussed these others are starting to contribute and we expect that to continue to enhance the overall financial picture in 2016 and beyond.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you Abhey.
Next question please? We'll take our next question from Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen.
Okay thank you very much.
Your U.S.
reported revenues were dragged down obviously by the GSA settlement.
But excluding that you grew U.S.
revenues by 20% year-over-year and that's even with Federal not having a great quarter and Brazil being weak.
So this question is probably for Carl but just kind of wondering if you can elaborate on what drove most of the strength in U.S.
Enterprise this quarter.
Thanks.
Yes so to your point we were very pleased with our results in the Americas.
We had a solid performance in our Enterprise segment which is our largest account which is where as you could imagine a lot of the enterprise agreements come from.
And we just did a very good job of renewing enterprise agreements in the quarter that came up for renewal as well as continue to drive our newer products into that if you will bigger segment of customers.
At the same time when we went down market if I look at the Americas business if I look at our mid-market or our commercial business as we like to call it here internally Gregg we saw very good growth in that business.
And I'd say the other area of success is we saw good growth specifically in the vertical of financial services.
So when I look at the Americas another solid performance highlighted and driven by our enterprise agreements across the board and a particularly good quarter in financial services for us out of the Americas.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> And don't forget Gregg obviously the impact of foreign exchange is going to show up most in the international segment.
So to the extent anything's coming from Europe in particular you've got a significant downdraft there.
So all the impact's going to be in that category.
Got it.
Yeah it's a good point.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Of course Gregg.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question please? We'll take our next question from Nehal Chokshi with Maxim Group.
Thank you.
On the infrastructure automation opportunity landscape can you help size up the competitive landscape that you're seeing especially in the context of why you think VMware will win given Microsoft has the Azure asset the complete software stack to leverage.
And Nutanix has recently shown up albeit still almost nominal but seems to have this hyper-conversion infrastructure opportunity that does truly converge all three layers together.
I know you have EVO:RAIL but just talk about where VMware's competitive position stands with respect to these major competitors and why you guys will win.
Yeah maybe a couple of aspects and Carl maybe you can add to this.
From a cloud management perspective obviously as I've already noted right IDC sees us as number one.
So we have a high market share.
We also have very strong growth rates as measured by IDC.
Their estimate was 36% year-on-year growth rate.
So high market share high growth rate.
And what we find is that given the vSphere installed base and the presence that we have in enterprise customers our ability to then sell them or up sell or add to and manage the environments that they already have with us in that environment is a very natural selling motion and a very natural value proposition for our customers as we are progressing.
Furthermore we've committed ourselves to a heterogeneous management strategy which allows us to be managing in multi-cloud environments both on and off premise including AWS and Microsoft Du Jour.
We manage those environments and given the strong initial installed base we have that's been very warmly received by our customers as well as they are buying into that management stack.
So simply put the presence that we have the installed base leveraging that into this new area of management is a very natural for our customers and for our sellers.
Furthermore the leadership position that we have is building on itself as more and more of the ecosystem is now partnering with us to support that management offering building on it building SI momentum solutions on top of that VCE Vblocks building on top of that plug-ins for vSOM all of those are reinforcing that momentum that we are seeing in the marketplace in a very positive way.
Yeah the only thing I would add Pat as relates to competition the competition for our infrastructure automation and orchestration tools is really against the traditional enterprise systems management platforms out there and those platforms are big homogeneous infrastructure software packages not built for the cloud era.
So I think we're effectively competing Pat and that's why we're the number one player in cloud management.
And the key thing I think Pat that you said which just kind of underscores why our customers are adopting this platform so aggressively is the fact that we do support and manage heterogeneous cloud environments.
So I think you covered it really well Pat.
Thank you Nehal.
Thank you for the answer.
Thank you.
Time for one last question.
So the last question please? We'll take our next question come from Rajesh Ghai with Macquarie Capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
A number of tier one telcos around the world have announced plans to replace a lot of their legacy carrier infrastructure with virtualized x86-based infrastructure running virtual network functions.
I'm curious what sort of traction you're seeing from this? And what sort of pipeline you have at this point in time from what I believe could be some very significant spend? Yeah we're quite excited.
And generally this category is called NFV is how the industry's referring to it: network functions virtualization.
And for us it's just a perfect match because all the technologies that we will built for the software-defined data center now are leverageable into this large market the telco service provider infrastructure that we've never participated in before.
We laid out our strategy for this at Mobile World Congress earlier this year announced new products like OpenStack with VIO for the NFV marketplace.
In Q1 we announced Vodafone as the first production deployment of NFV based on the VMware.
As I commented earlier Ooredoo and IIJ in Japan have announced deployments with us in Q2.
And the pipeline for the rest of the year is really building nicely.
And if you think at the highest level they want to virtualize their infrastructure and get rid of the silos of gear just like the data center has done over the last decade.
So it's very analogous.
This is a large potential.
But I'd also tamper your expectations for how fast this delivers.
Telco infrastructure moves slowly and design wins will be slow and long and the deployment cycles will be long.
But when you get in that market also the continuing ability to service and deliver it is also long as well.
So we are quite excited about it.
We built a specific business unit.
One of our senior leaders is driving that and we're quite excited about this long-term potential.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you Rajesh.
And I think before we conclude Pat was going to make a final statement.
Yeah thank you very much Paul and for all the good questions in the conversation today.
And in closing our Q2 performance was a solid follow-on to a solid Q1.
We look forward to seeing you at VMworld and at the financial analyst meeting that we'll be conducting at VMworld on August 31.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the VMware Third Quarter 2015 Earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Paul Ziots VP of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with the live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We have also included in our earnings release and posted on our website a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP data for constant currency growth in revenues plus sequential change in unearned revenues for Q3 2015 and Q3 2014.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the Form 10-Ks Form 10-Qs and Form 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
In addition during today's call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware's performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of acquired intangible assets Employer Payroll Tax on Employee Stock Transactions the net effect of amortization and capitalization of software certain litigation and other related items acquisition-related items and realignment-related net gains and charges.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
Webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our fourth quarter 2015 quiet period begins at the close of business December 15 2015.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
It's certainly been an exciting couple of weeks.
Last week we announced preliminary results for Q3 2015 in conjunction with the announcement by Dell and EMC that Dell is intending to acquire EMC while maintaining VMware as an independent publicly traded company.
Overall we are pleased with our Q3 results although bookings were a little softer than anticipated.
Total revenue exceeded the high end of our guidance at $1.7 billion a year-over-year increase of 14% in constant currency or 10% as reported.
Non-GAAP net income per diluted share increased 18% year-over-year at $1.02 per share also exceeding the top end of our guidance.
I spoke last week about the upside we expect from the merger of Dell and EMC.
We see significant opportunities for revenue synergies which could exceed $1 billion over the next few years.
Dell's incredibly strong go-to-market engine will provide us greatly expanded reach to attach and upsell our full portfolio of products and services.
Today we made another major announcement that will drive significant growth for VMware.
EMC and VMware announced the intent to form a new Cloud Services Business jointly owned 50/50 by EMC and VMware and offering customers the industry's most comprehensive hybrid cloud portfolio.
This new Federation business will bring together the vCloud Air Virtustream object storage and managed cloud services from VMware and EMC into one company using the Virtustream brand.
We expect to complete this transaction in early 2016 and we expect to consolidate Virtustream's results into VMware's financial statements.
Virtustream will be led by Chief Executive Officer Rodney Rogers reporting to a board comprised of leaders from both companies.
I will be a member of the board and VMware Chairman Joe Tucci will chair the board.
We expect the company to grow fast and generate multiple hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue for VMware in 2016.
Virtustream will be a leader in the largest market for IT infrastructure spending and we expect Virtustream to become one of the top five cloud service providers globally.
In Q3 we saw continued momentum for VMware vCloud Air as part of our unified hybrid cloud portfolio.
VMware's new Virtustream business combines the breadth of public cloud services available from vCloud Air with Virtustream's leading capabilities to run mission-critical applications in the cloud.
Other assets from EMC will further extend the on- and off-premise and storage capabilities of this new company.
We are looking forward to talking to our customers about what we believe will be the industry's broadest portfolio of hybrid cloud offerings enabling them to move all of their applications to cloud-based IT environments and seamlessly manage their on-premises and off-premises environments.
We expect that the Dell and EMC merger along with today's Virtustream announcement will accelerate VMware's growth across all our businesses and that together these two announcements will generate significant revenue for VMware over the next few years.
At our core we create disruptive innovations that deliver huge economic value to our customers.
Every year we showcase a number of these innovations as we host our VMware conferences in San Francisco and Barcelona and our AirWatch Connect event in Atlanta and London.
This year we welcomed over 33 000 attendees across these industry-leading events and we made a number of new product announcements.
These included a major refresh to our Cloud Management Platform vRealize Automation 7.0 and vRealize Business new vCloud Air services including vCloud Air Object Storage and vCloud Air SQL and two new technology previews: VMware vSphere Integrated Containers and VMware Photon Platform enabling our customers to run cloud-native applications while addressing their enterprise requirements.
As we think about our roadmap of innovation I'm delighted that we named Ray O'Farrell a 12-year VMware R&amp;D veteran as VMware's Chief Technology Officer and Chief Development Officer.
Ray is working in close partnership with our business unit leaders and world-class R&amp;D teams to drive industry-leading innovation.
In summary we are very optimistic about the long-term value to VMware of the Dell and the EMC merger and of our new Virtustream business.
VMware's mission and strategy remain unchanged.
We expect to accelerate our growth through the revenue synergies of being part of one of the three largest IT companies in the world and we expect to benefit from the decision-making agility that comes from our majority shareholder being privately controlled.
We will also continue to enjoy the benefits of being an independent company with a strong partner ecosystem and expanded set of solutions.
For our customers we believe this is the best of both worlds.
For our employees they continue to be part of one of the most successful disruptive technology companies in Silicon Valley.
I appreciate that this has been a volatile time for our investors.
There are lots of questions about the implications for VMware of Dell's merger with EMC and we look forward to answering your questions over the coming weeks.
I'll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q3.
Thank you Pat.
We delivered a solid quarter delivering results either in line or above our guidance.
We remain pleased with the increasing breadth in year-over-year growth of our newer product offerings across all three of our business priorities: hybrid cloud software defined data center and end user computing.
However we did see mixed booking results in certain areas.
I'll provide more color in just a minute.
Taking a look at our Q3 regional bookings performance on a constant currency basis in relative terms Asia Pacific performed best followed by the Americas and EMEA.
In APJ we had solid performance in India and Southeast Asia.
We continue to see weakness in China as experienced by many of our peers.
After a strong first half in Japan we saw slower growth in Q3.
In the Americas we were pleased with our healthcare and U.S.
federal businesses which both grew total bookings greater than 20% year-over-year in Q3.
However we did see softness in our SLED business and mixed results in our Enterprise segment.
In EMEA we were pleased with our business in Germany and Italy powered by some larger deals.
Meanwhile our UK business did not grow as robustly as it had earlier in the year and Russia continued to be challenging due to the economic environment.
Overall our geo bookings performance was slightly softer than we planned.
We attribute this to three primary factors: customer uncertainty due to secular shifts that we are seeing in the industry speculation about VMware's future and continued economic weakness in China Russia and Brazil.
We saw solid execution in our large deals.
Enterprise agreements were approximately 33% of total third quarter bookings.
This is up from approximately 29% last Q3.
This strong performance demonstrates customers' commitment to investing in VMware's expanded solution offerings.
We closed five deals at or over $10 million in the quarter and had a healthy mix of new enterprise agreements as well as Enterprise Agreement renewals.
New EAs continue to be over 50% of total EAs.
Our end quarter renewal rates were once again quite strong.
Our large deals increasingly include components across our business.
For example all of the top 10 deals contained end user computing and six of the top 10 deals contained NSX.
This reflects the strategic value our customers rely on from VMware.
End user computing continued their market momentum with a strong performance in Q3.
End user computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 20% year-over-year in Q3 on a constant currency basis.
I'm pleased to say that we now have over 60 000 end user computing customers across our desktop mobile identity and content collaboration solutions.
The desktop license business grew nearly 20% year-over-year on a constant currency basis and we believe we once again gained share from the competition during the quarter.
AirWatch grew license and subscription bookings over 20% year-over-year in Q3 on a constant currency basis on top of an exceptional growth rate of over 60% year-over-year in Q2.
Since our acquisition of the AirWatch we've continued to extend our leadership position in the enterprise mobile management.
Cloud management saw solid license bookings growth in Q3 helped by strong double-digit year-over-year growth from vSphere with operations management.
We continue to be pleased with our vSOM growth driven by our continued ability to execute on our no naked vSphere strategy.
Our cloud management penetration is now over 16% of our installed base leaving plenty of headroom for growth.
We saw continued momentum in Q3 for our network virtualization solution VMware NSX.
In Q3 we introduced NSX 6.2 and saw license bookings grow over 100% year-over-year on a constant currency basis and the number of paying customers increase to over 900 including a significant number of repeat customers.
At VMworld NSX saw significant momentum in both customer interest and testimonials evidenced by NSX being number one in terms of meeting requests and hands-on lab participation.
In fact we had over two dozen public reference NSX customers telling their stories at VMworld.
Customers are clearly embracing the strategic value of NSX.
We're seeing a wide variety of use cases in the three broad categories of IT automation micro-segmentation and application continuity.
We continue to see increasing production use of NSX.
We remain confident regarding our future opportunities in the networking space and see a solid pipeline heading into Q4.
Summarizing a few other product areas.
In Q3 our virtual SAN business saw success across a wide variety of industries market segments and geos.
At VMworld we announced our third release of Virtual SAN vSAN 6.1.
This newest release continues to make the software defined storage capabilities more robust through the addition of new features such as Stretched Clusters enhanced vSphere Replication and Remote Branch Office Support.
And in relation to the hybrid cloud we are adding three new service locations in Q4.
They are Texas New Jersey and Virginia all of which go live in October.
These locations reflect the need for additional capacity to keep up with the client demand and also provide even greater levels of in-region resiliency which reflects the increasing shift of deployments of production workloads into vCloud Air.
We also recently announced the general availability of strategic new hybrid networking capabilities VMware Hybrid Cloud manager and Advanced Networking Services that allow VMware to truly deliver on the promise of a unified hybrid cloud platform.
We are excited that we will have Virtustream as part of the VMware family.
We will have the ability to not only offer our customers an industry-leading hybrid cloud solution but also have the ability to support their mission critical applications like SAP as a managed service.
This combination of VMware's vCloud Air and Virtustream will help provide our customers a safe passage journey to the cloud leveraging their existing infrastructure and remaining consistent with their current operating models.
With regard to the intended merger between Dell and EMC I'm excited about the many opportunities for revenue synergies for VMware.
VMware remains committed to our strong ecosystem and we have commitment from both EMC and Dell that they will continue to support VMware's independent partnering strategy.
VMware has a decade-plus track record of strong execution in a complex operating environment and I am confident our success will continue in the future under this new ownership structure.
At our VMworld event in San Francisco and Barcelona it was clear our ecosystem is more engaged than ever in finding new ways to integrate in through and with VMware solutions.
We announced a strong set of offerings around network function virtualization and a new release of vRealize Automation.
We also announced the AirWatch support of Windows 10 and the acquisition of Boxer a secure e-mail or inbox solution.
It was very apparent our customers walked away recognizing the innovation engine at VMware is alive and well.
In conclusion we are excited about the future of VMware.
Our mission remains the same: to deliver extraordinary value to our customers through the power of disruptive innovation.
When we combine VMware's innovation engine with Dell and EMC to form the most transformative IT company in the world we believe we can accelerate VMware's growth in the future.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</strong> Thank you Carl.
There have been many questions around the transaction which our parent company EMC announced last week with Dell and Silver Lake.
We will attempt to answer many of your questions in the Q&amp;A portion of our call but I wanted to describe some key principles which should increase our shareholders' understanding of the transaction.
Moreover there is greater detail in the set of questions and answers posted on the EMC website as well as in the proxy to EMC shareholders which will be filed in a few weeks.
I am sure there also will be further elaboration on EMC's earnings call tomorrow morning.
First VMware will have the same public company governance post-EMC's going private as there is today with independent directors who will represent our common shareholders together with a majority of Dell and Silver Lake appointed directors.
Next VMware will continue to have control over its cash flows and earnings.
We look forward to synergies with a more powerful Dell/EMC entity and being able to utilize Dell's channel and strength in SMB and the public sector.
As Pat mentioned having a parent company which is private will create one less set of financial constraints on VMware and we will continue to have flexibility to pursue acquisitions.
Dell and Silver Lake will own roughly $8 billion or 28% of the economic interests of VMware.
So their stated goal to grow VMware is financially and strategically motivated.
Finally I would like to reiterate that in an IT industry that is accelerating in its evolution and the commoditization of legacy products we expect that being part of a larger stronger private parent company will be highly advantageous to VMware.
Now turning to our Q3 financial results.
We are pleased with our Q3 total revenue and non-GAAP EPS both exceeding the top end of guidance.
License bookings beyond stand-alone vSphere were greater than 60% of total license bookings up from greater than 50% in Q3 2014 and up from more than 40% two years ago.
Q3 total revenues were $1.7 billion up 14% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 10% as reported.
Q3 license revenues were $681 million up 11% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 7% as reported.
Revenues from our hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings were greater than 6% of our total Q3 revenues with a growth rate of over 50% year-over-year.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q3 was $1.02 per share on approximately 424 million shares.
During the quarter we repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares of stock for a total of $200 million.
Over the first three quarters of 2015 we have bought back over 12.5 million shares for a total of approximately $1.05 billion.
I'll talk more about our future buyback plans in a moment.
Our balance sheet remained strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $7.2 billion.
Total unearned revenues ended the quarter at $4.7 billion up 7% from Q3 2014 with $1.7 billion in long-term unearned revenues up 3% year-over-year.
The growth rate for total revenues plus change in unearned revenues was approximately 8% year-over-year.
The growth rate for license revenues plus change in unearned license revenues was approximately 7% year-over-year.
These growth rates adjust for the impact of currency on revenues and unearned revenues.
Turning to guidance for 2015 we are reiterating the midpoint of our outlook for non-GAAP total revenues for the year.
We expect non-GAAP total revenues for 2015 to be between $6.605 billion and $6.655 billion or up 9% to 10% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this will be up 12% to 13% year-over-year.
We now expect license revenues for the full year to be between $2.695 billion and $2.725 billion or up 4% to 5% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this will be up 8% to 9% year-over-year.
For 2015 we are increasing our expectation for non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 31.8% which balances some margin expansion against continued investment in our growth businesses.
We are maintaining our cash flow from operations expectation for 2015 of approximately $1.875 billion and we continue to expect capital expenditures to be approximately $350 million for the year.
We are modeling a share count of approximately 426 million shares for the year and we are raising our non-GAAP EPS guidance for the year by approximately $0.06 a share to be between $4.04 and $4.08 per share.
Shifting to Q4 2015 we expect total reported revenue to be between $1.825 billion and $1.875 billion or up 7% to 10% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this will be up 10% to 13% year-over-year.
License revenues for Q4 are expected to be between $800 million to $830 million or up 3% to 7% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis this would be up 6% to 10% year-over-year.
For Q4 we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 35% and non-GAAP EPS of between $1.23 and $1.27 per share.
As a reminder Q4 is typically our strongest quarter both in terms of revenue and profit contribution.
This year is no exception.
By contrast we have been seeing our first quarter of each year as our seasonally weakest especially with respect to operating margin performance.
We expect this trend to continue moving forward.
Remaining guidance for Q4 and 2015 is included in the slide deck posted on our Investor Relations website.
Now for a few comments on the financial aspects associated with the creation of our jointly owned Cloud Services Business with EMC under the name Virtustream.
Together this new entity will enable VMware and EMC to jointly address the largest market potential for cloud offerings across hybrid cloud mission critical workloads and managed cloud environments.
Over time we see more customers wanting to move their on-premises workloads to the hybrid cloud or to run them in secure infrastructure as a service offerings.
Of the estimated over 145 million workloads that exist today 130 million workloads run on-premises.
This is a huge opportunity for VMware and EMC.
Together we will have an expanded capability to capture these workloads if they move to the cloud as well as those generated organically in the cloud.
As Pat described today we are announcing the intent to form a new company jointly owned 50/50 by VMware and EMC under the Virtustream brand.
VMware expects to consolidate the results of Virtustream into its financial statements.
We expect to complete this transaction in early January 2016 and to begin incorporating results of Virtustream beginning in Q1 2016.
We expect Virtustream to grow fast and to become a multi-billion dollar profitable business over the next several years.
It's important to note that much of the revenue is derived from subscription or consumption-based customer contracts and also largely recurring in nature.
We're also anticipating that Virtustream will be investing heavily in its global operations over the next few years both in terms of operating and capital expenditures.
We estimate that Virtustream will generate multiple hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue in 2016 with a strong double-digit growth rate.
In terms of operating results we estimate Virtustream will have an operating loss of approximately $200 million to $300 million in 2016.
It's important to note that net earnings or losses relating to the 50% minority interest owned by EMC will be reported below operating income on our income statement.
In the initial loss-making reporting periods this will be a benefit to net income and earnings per share.
We currently expect that approximately $100 million after-tax will be reflected as a benefit in minority interest and have a positive impact on earnings per share in 2016.
Now for a few more comments about 2016.
Clearly Virtustream will have an impact on our 2016 results.
In addition as Carl mentioned we experienced softer bookings than we planned for in Q3.
We believe this is partly due to some disruptive impact resulting from speculation associated with VMware's future.
Although we expect the Dell acquisition of EMC will give rise to significant revenue synergies for VMware over time we believe it is realistic to anticipate various disruptions in the near term.
As a result while sooner than we'd normally discuss I want to give you an early indication on how we view 2016 at this point in time.
Taking all the comments I just made into account for the full year 2016 we are currently expecting total non-GAAP revenue to grow between high single-digits and low double-digits year-over-year in percentage terms.
I'll also remind you that at the start of this year we quantified the effect of the shift to hybrid cloud and SaaS was expected to have on our business in 2015.
In addition at our Analyst Day in August we discussed the VMware hybrid purchase program which will drive increasing levels of recurring revenue but has a negative impact on total revenue and license revenue in the near term.
We anticipate the continuing shift to hybrid cloud and SaaS including the effect of the new hybrid purchasing program will negatively impact total revenue growth by at least 3 percentage points in 2016.
Taking this into account our current expectation for total non-GAAP revenue growth of VMware in 2016 would have been in the double digits.
For 2016 especially given the impact of the Virtustream business we're expecting that non-GAAP operating margin will be approximately 28%.
We're anticipating operating cash flow will grow 15% to 20% next year and that CapEx will be approximately $625 million.
Of course actual results can differ but that's our view on 2016 at this time.
We'll provide formal guidance when discussing Q4 and 2015 results in January.
Before I close I'll also emphasize we continue to view the long-term opportunities for VMware to be significant and subject to market and other customary conditions plan to continue our goal of buying back $1.25 billion in stock in 2015 recommencing shortly.
In summary we're excited about the long-term potential for the Dell and EMC combination and the strategic alignment of Virtustream underneath VMware's oversight.
And with that I'll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I'll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let's get started.
Thank you.
And we'll take our first question from Matt Hedberg with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
Carl I'm curious in your prepared remarks you talked about several things impacting results.
I think you mentioned some customer uncertainty along with some geographic comments.
I'm curious if you could dig into a little bit more granularity into – absent the Dell acquisition what other customer uncertainty are you seeing out there? Yeah sure Matt.
So thanks for the question.
So first let me just reiterate we were pretty pleased with our results.
We beat our guidance for both top-line revenue and operating margin.
So once again we've delivered on strong results overall.
If you really think back over the last couple years both in 2013 and 2014 the one thing we expected in those years was to accelerate our bookings in the second half of the year Matt.
And actually that did occur.
Coming into 2015 we expected that to occur once again.
But when we looked at our Q3 bookings they were actually not as strong as we had planned internally and therefore gave us a bit of softer bookings than we would have liked to see.
And as I've said in my prepared remarks there's probably three primary reasons behind that.
The first is we are clearly – I think not just VMware but the entire industry as a whole is seeing a massive secular shift right now in the market.
And with this our customers are a little bit more cautious before they enter into any type of strategic engagement or a technology spend as a whole.
Also leading up until just I guess a week-and-a-half ago there was a lot of speculation about VMware's future.
In fact there was a lot of ambiguity about what would happen with us in the future.
The good news is the ambiguity is now gone because we know we'll remain an independent company under the current operating model that was announced with the Dell acquisition or intended acquisition of EMC.
But it doesn't mean we're not going to see customers still have questions about what the future of VMware looks like going forward.
And then the last area that we're seeing is just the overall macro issues we're seeing with the economy specifically in China in Russia and Brazil.
I don't think we're any different than anyone else experiencing some challenges in those markets and we saw that once again happen this quarter specifically in China and Russia.
So when I think about the bookings as a whole I think they're the three primary reasons and again coming into Q3 we did expect to accelerate bookings.
It didn't turn out exactly as we had anticipated and I think they're the three primary reasons behind the softness in bookings.
Thank you Matt.
Next question please.
And we'll take our next question from Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
I wonder if you could touch on NSX.
Obviously you gave the customer count there of 900 I believe exiting this quarter.
Just what trends are you seeing there? The sales cycles deal size any kind of win rates any sort of details on NSX would be great.
Yeah thanks Phil.
So first as I said in my prepared remarks we had another really solid quarter around NSX.
We saw our license growth year-over-year up over 100%.
We now have over 900 paying customers in the quarter and the one thing we were really excited about was seeing the number of repeat customers actually coming back and buying additional license which is driving further deployment of the platform into their environments.
And we see a number of emerging use cases over the last quarter as well.
And I'll tell you again if you went to VMworld – I know you were there Phil at VMworld but you just saw time and time again customers standing up and talking about how they're deploying this technology and using it and we just are really excited about what we're seeing in the market from the adoption of this technology.
The deal size I don't think it's changed as we exited Q3.
As we go into Q4 I will tell you I'm pretty excited about the pipeline we have around NSX and we do expect to see a solid quarter here in Q4 and probably very similar to what we saw last year in Q4 with the deal size increasing as you would expect in the final quarter of the year.
And I just couldn't tell you how excited we are about the momentum we see in the market and the fact that customers are continuously coming to us and saying hey we need to change our network infrastructure and NSX is the way of the future.
So I'll also ask Pat to comment.
I think he has some good observations specifically around NSX and the momentum we see in the market.
Yeah.
Thanks Phil.
Just a couple points to add to Carl's comments.
If you were at VMworld what you would have seen was NSX being core to the SDDC.
It was also core to our cloud with the hybrid networking.
It was also in some of the security use cases core to our end user computing.
It really has become a platform in and of itself now fully being integrated and embraced across the full spectrum of VMware opportunities.
And it also is becoming a part of every ecosystem player in the industry as well as we continue to see broader and broader ecosystem embrace for security solutions for Layer 4-7 services associated with it integrated top of rack switching – it really is now just being embraced as a key capability to transform the entirety of the network operations.
So as Carl said the pipeline for Q4 is enormous and we're quite excited about this opportunity going forward.
Thank you Phil.
Next question please.
And we'll take our next question from John DiFucci with Jefferies.
Thank you.
My question still goes back to sort of Matt's first question a little bit and why you're lowering the license guidance for the year because you – at least on the revenue side and I understand the bookings but I'm going to get to that.
You hit the numbers on the revenue side.
And when I look at there – now that we have the detailed results and I guess this question is for both Jonathan and then Carl how this might be happening in the field I see long-term deferred revenue declining by more than is typically seasonal more than it usually does in the fourth quarter.
It was down 5% or the third quarter down 5% sequentially down 2% last year.
And it was growing in prior years.
And I know there's a little bit of foreign exchange in there but not a lot I don't think.
And then current deferred was really – it was more in line with the seasonal norm so flattish.
It was down 1% versus zero last year but it's sort of in line.
And I'm just wondering to me when I look at that I wonder if this is an indication that you're signing ELAs but they're shorter duration.
And this would sort of explain the third quarter the relatively strong revenue versus the more modest billings growth.
But it doesn't explain you lowering your guidance for license revenue for next quarter which is essentially what you did with the year.
So if you can explain that a little bit more is – well first of all are ELAs being signed but at a shorter duration than they normally have been in the past? And if that's the case there must be I guess some of the things that Carl talked about I mean if you can just sort of revisit a little bit more Carl about what's happening in the field to slow things down in the fourth quarter for the license.
Because it seems like you'd still – if you're signing one-year to two-year ELAs versus three years you're still going to recognize that license next quarter for the ones that are recognizing license over time.
Sorry for the long question but go ahead.
Great.
Thanks John.
Carl is going to start I believe...
Actually Jonathan is going to start and then I'll follow up.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah let me just kick off and then I'll let Carl talk about ELA lens in general.
But as Carl articulated John we did see softer bookings than we would have liked typically at this time of the year and as we planned both in 2013 and 2014 we've seen acceleration.
It's been largely planned especially with newer product cycles ELA renewals et cetera which Carl touched on a little bit.
We didn't see quite that performances we were expecting coming into Q3 or coming out of Q3 and that obviously has an impact on the bookings which in turn has an impact on then deferred revenue build and obviously on the calculation that you're making with respect to implied bookings overall.
So when we look at that and we look at the overall yearly guidance obviously we are reiterating the midpoint of our guidance for the full year on the total level but it does require us to take a look at the mix of our business as we think about where it's going to come from.
And at this point the revenue on the license side looks a little bit softer than we were thinking about at the start of the year.
Full year guide has been maintained but we're seeing a little bit more strength on the services side.
And that's really reflected in our overall outlook for 2015.
Again maintaining the full year but we're seeing a little bit of a shift based on Q3 performance.
Yeah and...
But are you seeing a duration of those ELAs as that duration coming down? Hey John it's Carl.
Let me answer I guess two parts to this question.
So first on the Q4 guide that Jonathan provided.
As you could imagine we take a look at our pipeline going into every quarter.
Based on our pipeline going into Q4 we feel pretty confident in the guidance Jonathan provided to maintain our overall guide for the quarter and top-line.
The mix is slightly changing and that's based on what we saw in Q3 and how we converted against our pipeline in Q3.
As it relates to the length of EAs and whether or not the average length is coming down actually it hasn't.
Our ELA length in Q3 was very consistent with what we saw in Q2 and very consistent with what we saw in Q3 of last year.
So we have not seen any change in duration of our Enterprise Agreements on a year-over-year basis or sequentially from Q2 to Q3.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> So it's really a volume comment John as we think about the overall level of bookings.
So why did...? I think that's a great way to put it Jonathan.
Why the difference in like the departure from seasonal norms with the long-term deferred revenue this quarter versus in short term? Okay.
Thanks John we're going to have to take that one quickly and move on because everyone will ask two- and three-part questions.
So could we take that one and continue forward? I'm sorry.
It's the same question though guys.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah John again I think it's the same point that we just said.
We expected to see stronger bookings in line with seasonal norms we've seen for the last two years or three years or even more.
We expected to build more license deferred and we didn't see that this time.
And as a result as we think about what's coming off the balance sheet and what gets recognized it didn't get replenished at the same pace as we were expecting.
So it's a flow question just on how bookings came in.
And John if you look at our ELA bookings within the quarter we had pretty solid ELA bookings of 33% of total bookings up from 29% last year.
But even a good bookings quarter around ELAs at 33% – remember that's a metric on total bookings for the quarter and our total bookings for the quarter were softer than we anticipated.
So although we had a strong ELA quarter as described by total bookings it still was softer overall which is what's driving the change that you're asking about in deferred.
Thank you John.
Thank you.
Next question please.
And we'll take our next question from Brent Thill with UBS.
Hey Carl just to follow up on the bookings commentary: the first mention you made on the customer uncertainty and the secular shift I'm assuming that is the shift to cloud and there's been a lot of questions about the competitive win rates.
Do you feel like the deals in Q3 just slipped and they're technically awarded to you and they just need further time to get inked or do you feel like they're getting pushed to competitors? And then just secondarily the follow-up to Jonathan is in terms of your Q4 close rate that was in that you're seeing a much lower close rate going into Q4 and maybe perhaps you saw in last Q4 I'd just be interested to get your color on that.
Thank you.
Hey Brent.
Thanks.
So I think there was kind of two questions you asked me there on the secular shifts and then the competitive environment.
So first on the secular shifts what we're seeing in the market – it's probably more around the fact that when you talk to customers they're more cautious about how they're going to engage with technology partners going forward just because – for example are they going to build a private cloud they're going to build a public cloud or are they going to leverage hybrid cloud services from someone like VMware or Virtustream? So there's just a lot of uncertainty exactly how they're going to proceed forward.
Same thing: are they going to continue to build out their private cloud environments with VMware or are they going to leverage an OpenStack technology like VMware Integrated OpenStack? So there's just a lot of uncertainty in our customers and they're much more cautious when they think about engaging in a long-term contract with any technology vendor I believe not just VMware.
As it relates to the competitive environment as you know in any given quarter we have the ability to pull deals in and renew ELAs early or some of them go from Q3 to Q4.
When we look at Q3 our conversion rate overall of the pipeline was a little bit softer than we had anticipated which is what led to softer bookings but I can honestly say there's not a scenario where we lost a whole bunch of deals to a competitor or it's really driving a major impact to our Q4 outlook based on what Jonathan described earlier.
So I'm quite confident in our Q4 outlook.
I'm confident that we're still winning against the competition in there.
I really do believe it's much more about the secular shifts we're seeing as a whole in the market more than anything else at this time.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Kash Rangan with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please check your mute function.
And your line...
Let's go on.
We'll take our next question from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Can you guys hear me okay? We can.
We can Heather.
Okay great.
Yeah I can hear you.
I just was wondering – sorry about that.
I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit about what you're seeing with your OpenStack initiatives.
I know it launched just earlier this year but if you could give us a sense of customer adoption and how you see win rates maybe progressing versus the competition.
Thank you.
Thanks Heather.
A few general comments and maybe Carl will add to it.
Overall we're seeing a good response from the market.
Now people can download our OpenStack they could take advantage of it so we believe there are lots of trials and I think overall the OpenStack market is clearly one where there's a lot of trials and not a lot of production.
We have seen that several customers have taken VMware Integrated OpenStack and we referred to several of those on last earnings call and are now at scale production with VMware Integrated OpenStack finding it to be significantly more robust and a very natural extension of what they're already doing with VMware.
So I think the market's early lots of POCs and I think we're having good success with our offering where it is.
We just announced the next release of our OpenStack offering so staying current to the OpenStack distributions.
So keeping that commitment to customers and overall we're just adding more and more support to the robustness of the OpenStack product line and I think we're seeing the customer base respond to that in contrast to some of the weakness of the other offerings.
Carl would you add anything? No I think it was well said Pat and I think the customers are out there looking at OpenStack solutions and they're looking at VMware because they're looking to integrate it into their existing VMware framework.
I'd add one thing Pat.
I'd take it one step further to say VMware is open to open in the fact that VMworld – Pat and the team really pushed us to make sure we had a great strategy around specifically the container movement we're seeing in the industry.
So not only are we focused on delivering strong OpenStack solutions but our container platform and solutions is getting a lot of energy and our customers excited to talk about that with us to see how they can integrate that also on top of their existing VMware environments.
Thank you Heather.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Excellent.
Thank you guys and thank you for taking the question.
I think this one is for Jonathan and really looking at that initial outlook on FY 2016 it seems like there's a lot of moving parts in there in terms of positive and negative impacts.
Positive impacts for Virtustream the top line it seems like that's definitely dragging down on operating margins adding to CapEx.
The one number that you didn't give us much specificity on was how it's impacting the revenue guidance and again they were all (46:52) going to try to back in and figure it out.
I was hoping that maybe you could help us out and sort of avoid sort of the margin of error and get you (46:59) to try and to back into that number could you give us a sense of what's the kind of inorganic contribution you're expecting from Virtustream just from consolidating existing revenues into that business unit.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah Keith thank you for the question.
So again at this point recognizing this isn't normally when we would give guidance specifically for the forthcoming year we felt that because of the announcement around the Virtustream cloud business coming together we felt it was really important to give you a sense of it and we'll clearly give you more precise guidance in 90 days or so.
And when we think about 2016 we think about the integrated business that Rodney is going to be running.
I'm not at this point breaking out the contributions of vCloud Air in 2016 because at this point it will become more of a combined sort of offerings as we go forward.
As Carl mentioned in 2013 and 2014 we had seen a greater acceleration in Q3 and we didn't see that in Q3 at this time.
So as we think about Q3 Q4 and we think about our performance next year we're thinking about the early views we're looking at and we're thinking about our business in that sort of high single-digit low double-digit growth rate with Virtustream where we continue to be really optimistic about the strategy we've been pursuing and we continue to be really optimistic about the opportunity now especially with the cloud business under Rodney's leadership with Virtustream combined under VMware and also the acquisition of EMC by Dell.
So as we think about that we think we've got near-term issues which we're navigating through as we see bookings performance and as we look at the medium and longer term we're highly optimistic and that's what the sort of significant medium-term opportunity is that's presented by Virtustream and Dell.
We'll come back in 90 days and give you a more formal guide but we're reflecting something of what we're seeing from the Q3 performance and the rest of this year as we think about the early start to 2016 guidance.
Thank you Keith.
Next question please.
And we'll take our next question from Michael Turits with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Can we at least get a sense for whether or not it's a net positive or a net negative revenue contribution? Or are you really trying to focus more on the lower revenue guide for next year on organic matters? And also regarding the $200 million to $300 million in EBIT loss is that again all from the incremental addition of Virtustream? Or – some of that I would assume was from what you would have done with vCloud Air anyway.
So again just trying to figure out how much is really incremental in terms of that margin compression.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Jonathan again obviously.
So as I think about the addition of the Virtustream businesses overall with some of it coming from EMC and some of it coming from VMware EMC's contributing a number of different elements including the Virtustream business the IS business that Rodney has brought in with the Virtustream acquisition.
There's also other areas coming in from EMC obviously.
We are contributing the VCA vCloud Air Hybrid Cloud capability.
So there's a net positive incremental addition inorganic if you like coming together as we think about that business going forward.
I think as I indicated at the Analyst Day before we added the Cloud Services Business we expected about a half a point improvement in operating margin compared to where we were headed for 2015.
So I think you can assume on a combined basis before this business we would have been in the 32% range there give or take.
This obviously is an investment cycle we're in but we think it's really important we A get aligned strategically with Virtustream under the leadership of VMware jointly with EMC and then from a financial perspective we can put together the investment capability from both EMC and VMware as we think about the next few years.
And again as Pat has indicated in his remarks we expect this to be a multi-billion dollar profitable business over the course of the next several years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you Michael.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Abhey Lamba with Mizuho Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Pat can you discuss how you expect revenue synergies with Dell to work and how that's going to impact your relationship with other hardware providers especially as you're also outlining plans to be an independent operator along with realizing synergies? Just trying to figure out how you're going to be able to do both.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you Abhey great question.
And as you might have heard from our pre-call last week when we announced it and we reaffirmed today yeah we do expect that there'll be $1 billion-plus of synergies over a few years from the Dell deal.
And we particularly see that emerging from areas like the mid-market strength that Dell has and really across our businesses.
We expect compute attach rate for vSphere for management attach rate our VDI opportunity Dell is huge in the client space the opportunity for things like vSAN and our hyper-converged infrastructure.
Really all of these are very nice incremental opportunities for us and we see the model being one where Dell will be accelerating VMware's business as a result as they increase those opportunities right through their massive sales engine.
At the same time Dell has simultaneously been very firm with respect to the independent ecosystem that VMware affords and I think he posted a blog just yesterday right reaffirming that position in the industry.
And given Michael was really born in the open systems era he has a very deep sense of the importance of that open environment.
He's highly committed to it.
And he will enable us to continue to be operating as that independent entity independent ecosystem which he is reaffirming I'm reaffirming Carl's reaffirming through our partners our largest OEMs and industry partners in the world.
And we're quite confident that this will be a net positive as we maintain the ecosystem and we see acceleration from Dell over the mid- and long-term.
Thank you Abhey.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.
Yes.
Thank you very much for taking my question.
Carl I wanted to touch again on your comment about customer uncertainty due to secular shift.
And just specifically I'm wondering does that uncertainty feel like a temporary pause that refreshes at some point as customers make their architectural decisions and move on? Or does it feel like a dynamic that you think will persist for a while? And Jonathan I did want to ask as well.
I think that 2016 CapEx guidance is a very material increase if I heard it correctly and I was wondering is that also a reflection of a faster pace of data center buildouts to address the growing interest in public cloud or hybrid cloud architectures? Yeah.
So I'll start and then I'll turn it over to you Jonathan.
So as it relates to the secular shifts I think you'd agree Mark we're all seeing the same thing in the industry.
And as I said earlier one of the biggest things we see customers kind of pausing and thinking about more – with a lot more I guess due diligence is whether they're going to go public whether they're going to go private or whether they're going to go hybrid.
And I don't see that changing in the near term.
I think everyone's going to continue to look at this as an opportunity to decide how they're going to run and operate their IT environments going forward specifically around the infrastructure.
I think we're very well positioned if people want to continue to build out private clouds.
And I think we're uniquely positioned for customers who want to actually extend into public cloud because no one house (55:12) the hybrid capabilities that we have today.
And I think this is going to continue for a while.
At the same time our customers are continuing to engage with us.
They're continuing to sign ELAs with us they're continuing to engage in long-term contracts because we VMware have taken them on a journey that's allowed them to be very successful save significant money and drive business value with our technology.
And I think most of them are betting with us again.
So I think it's a short-term pause.
Probably not.
It's probably a longer term that we're looking at here.
And I'll let Pat add some commentary as well.
Yeah.
Before Jonathan addresses the CapEx question what we really see in the formation of the Virtustream business is a very differentiated set of capabilities.
Carl commented on the hybrid right the mission critical capabilities.
So while we're beginning to see real significant customer uptake for that we think there will be some period of time until that is broadly recognized as a fundamental offering that delivers on hybrid cloud capabilities as no other person in the industry can offer to the marketplace.
So we do see that as a very substantive mid-term opportunity one that we see substantial acceleration as we indicated in our prepared remarks a multi-billion dollar business over the next few years.
And as that really materializes I think we will get past this phase of uncertainty as we've described.
Jonathan maybe a few comments in the CapEx.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah Mark we'll give you that bonus question because I'm sure it's top of mind for everybody.
But yeah so first of all we're really pleased with the momentum we're seeing across the VCA business and also the Virtustream business.
As I've got closer to the momentum that Rodney and team are pulling off on both sides it's been very impressive.
Clearly we need to invest as we think about the market ahead of us.
And so as we think about securing those mission critical workloads and as we continue to invest in the hybrid cloud here at VMware we're now putting together a shared investment model with EMC in this Cloud Services Business we were combining under the brand of Virtustream.
And as we bring together those two investment areas you do see an increase in CapEx overall.
And don't forget this is jointly funded overall as we think about the combination and contributions coming from both EMC and VMware.
But yes the CapEx increase you're seeing is directly tied to the investment we're making jointly in the cloud buildout.
Thank you.
Thank you Mark.
Next question please.
We'll take our next question from Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah hi.
Thanks.
Jonathan this one for you and it's a follow-up to Mark's question on cash flow.
Cash flow has been down year-over-year for six straight quarters yet by reaffirming your 4Q guide you're assuming that operating cash flow is up double digits in 4Q.
And obviously you guided next year's operating cash flow up 15% 20%.
So it sounds like you're seeing an inflection point where operating cash flow can going forward start turning positive.
And I'm wondering if you might help us understand what those factors are driving that improvement.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> Yeah Carl thanks for the question.
And I'm going to remind you that we talked about this somewhat at the Analyst Day back in August.
So we have a number of factors that have driven cash flow headwinds this year and I won't repeat them because we have been through them.
But as we think about some of those items a number of them reversed going into 2016.
And so that's having an impact on us overall.
In addition as you know over the course of the last couple years we have been in an investment cycle.
And we've been managing the P&amp;L and costs I think quite carefully over the course of this year.
So clearly as we think about 2016 guidance we're taking a number of things into account: growth in the business the removal of a number of those headwinds and a couple of them become tailwinds as you know and also the investment cycle we're going to be getting into with respect to Virtustream and the combined business that we just talked about with respect to the CapEx investment.
And again I just want to mention that or remind you as we think about this combined business although the operating cash flow on the cash flow statement reflects the numbers I just raised 15% to 20% for next year there is obviously a net effect of the cash injection that you see going into the entity that will be shared jointly with EMC.
While that won't appear in operating cash flow it will appear as though the contributions are made into the business.
So we're pleased with the business we're pleased with that operating cash flow outlook and we think it reflects fairly where we are today.
Thank you Karl.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Let's take one final question before we wrap up.
And we'll take our final question from Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen &amp; Company.
Okay thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
So I feel obliged to just point out that EMC bought Virtustream not very long ago for about $1.2 billion which of course beginning in Q1 you will now be consolidating into VMware and yet at least based on the after-hours or after-market price it looks as though VMware's market cap has fallen by more than $1.2 billion and everyone knew that bookings obviously from the announcement last week so the delta here really is – or the difference here really is the guidance.
And so really my question here Jonathan is: I can understand you not wanting to get too granular on 2016 yet but I think it's important for us to have a baseline for the Cloud Services Business.
So I'm wondering if you could tell us first what the revenue run rate is on a combined basis today; second how fast those assets are growing and third what percentage of that revenue is owned by VMware today.
Any color would be appreciated.
Thank you.
Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President</span></strong> You know Gregg when you talk about Virtustream getting acquired by EMC let's not forget that EMC and the whole Federation we're always thinking about our position in the cloud overall.
They were able to move very quickly to acquire Virtustream leveraging the capital strength of the Federation as a whole and as we think about the shift to the hybrid cloud that's highly strategic for both companies and we've been very consistent with our messaging for a number of years with respect to our position to the hybrid cloud.
What this does is allow us to put a joint operation together that brings all the cloud assets across the Federation under one house and under one set of leadership.
Clearly we are going to be investing heavily as we see the opportunity to be pretty significant over the next several years.
Again we're sharing this investment as we think about the opportunity ahead.
At this point when we think about 2016 this is going to be a combined operation.
And I'm not breaking out the individual components at this stage.
We'll provide additional disclosure as we think about how the business performs.
But what we've got is a very strong alignment between mission critical applications and what EMC sales force is able to drive and the hybrid cloud story that we have and we're bringing this together for a very very powerful story going forward.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Gregg.
Before we wrap up Pat has some final comments.
In closing we're extremely optimistic about the long-term value to VMware of the Dell and EMC merger and of the new Virtustream business.
This combined with our growth businesses that we've been talking about leave VMware's mission and strategy unchanged and now substantially accelerated.
We're going to continue as a publicly traded company.
We expect these transactions to accelerate our growth across all of our businesses.
At the same time we appreciate that this has been a volatile time for our investors and we look forward to answering more of your questions over the coming weeks.
Thank you very much.
That concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the VMware Q4 and Full Year 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Paul Ziots Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to VMware’s fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
On the call we have Pat Gelsinger Chief Executive Officer; Carl Eschenbach President and Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Chadwick Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Following their prepared remarks we will take questions.
Our press release was issued after close of market and is posted on our website where this call is being simultaneously webcast.
Slides which accompany this webcast can be viewed in conjunction with the live remarks and can also be downloaded at the conclusion of the webcast from ir.vmware.com.
We’ve also included in our earnings release and posted on our website a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP data for constant currency growth in revenues plus sequential change in unearned revenues for Q4 2015 and Q4 2014.
On this call today we will make forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially as a result of various risk factors including those described in the 10-Ks 10-Qs and 8-Ks VMware files with the SEC.
We assume no obligation to and do not currently intend to update any such forward-looking statements.
In addition during today’s call we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures which are used as measures of VMware’s performance should be considered in addition to not as a substitute for or in isolation from GAAP measures.
Our non-GAAP measures exclude the effect of our GAAP results of stock-based compensation amortization of acquired intangible assets employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions net effect of amortization and capitalization of software certain litigation and other related items acquisition-related items and realignment-related net gains and charges.
You can find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures including reconciliations with comparable GAAP measures in the press release and on our Investor Relations website.
A webcast replay of this call will be available for the next 60 days on our company website under the Investor Relations link.
Our first quarter 2016 quiet period begins at the close of business March 15 2016.
Unless otherwise stated all financial comparisons in this call will be in reference to our results for the comparable period of 2014.
With that I’ll turn it over to Pat.
Thank you Paul and good afternoon everyone.
We thank you as always for your interest in VMware.
We have quite a bit to cover on today’s call.
Specifically we will be addressing our results for the quarter and our outlook going forward.
In addition we’ll discuss the steps we are taking to best align VMware for the future especially in the area of cloud computing and a management change.
Let me start with an overview of our results.
Q4 was a solid finish to 2015.
For the full year we grew total non-GAAP revenue 13% in constant currency to over $6.6 billion and we increased non-GAAP earnings to $4.06 per share.
We were especially pleased with the growth across our portfolio of emerging products and businesses including NSX end-user computing and Virtual SAN.
All of these businesses demonstrated strong growth in both Q4 and for the full year underscoring the momentum behind our new focus areas.
We believe they will also contribute to our bookings growth rate exceeding our revenue growth rate for 2016.
Here are some highlights.
Our end-user computing business crossed $1 billion of total bookings joining both compute and management as $1 billion businesses for VMware.
AirWatch ranks as a leader in The Forrester Wave Enterprise Global Management in Q4 2015 and was the only company to receive the highest score for customer confidence in vision as well as for enterprise app extensibility.
In networking we had a stellar year growing NSX over 100% year-on-year and bringing our total annual bookings run rate to well over $600 million.
We believe our emerging networking business will be as transformative to the entire networking and security industries as vSphere has been to the compute and server industries.
Our vSAN products are now well over $100 million in annual bookings run rate and we just released major updates to our Management Suite vRealize 7.
As one of the largest software companies in the world these results demonstrate the strong demand we’re seeing for VMware’s core and emerging products in an evolving marketplace for IT solutions.
Carl and Jonathan will provide some specific commentary in these and other products in a few minutes.
Today we want to provide further clarity around our cloud strategy.
While the cloud is fast becoming mainstream we are only just starting to see the significant implications for IT.
Multi-cloud environments are becoming the norm.
Customers are increasingly looking for solutions that work across clouds and across devices and most companies now have meaningful portions of infrastructure which they do not operate or own.
We believe that VMware is uniquely positioned to help our customers manage these highly complex multi-cloud and multi-device environments using the unmatched power of our software defined approach.
There are three components of VMware’s expanded cloud strategy.
The first part of our cloud strategy is focused on a extending our leadership in the private cloud the foundation of our business.
With our SDDC technologies we have helped our customers to transform their datacenters.
During 2015 we saw a significant increase in customers deploying the entire VMware SDDC stack of compute networking storage and management.
These SDDC technologies are the basis for the power for hybrid cloud capabilities our customers use to extend their private cloud workloads to and from the public cloud and to help them run manage secure and connect all their applications across all clouds and all devices.
The second part of our strategy is our focus on how the customers extend their private cloud workloads into the public cloud.
Our vCloud Air Service and vCloud Air Network partners are both examples of this.
I’d like to take a moment to clarify our strategy for vCloud Air; the service will have narrower focus providing specialized cloud software and services unique to VMware and distinct from other public cloud providers.
We will aggressively provide these innovations to our vCloud Air Network partners helping them to accelerate their growth.
VMware is creating cloud software and cloud services for cloud providers.
It’s important to note that given that’s narrower focus we believe the capital expenses we’ve already invested in vCloud Air will be adequate for our needs and that we expect our vCloud Air service to be accretive by the end of 2017.
The third part of our strategy builds on lasts year’s technical preview of NSX connecting and securing end-points across our range of public clouds including Amazon Web Services.
Later this year we will be introducing a new NSX offering which will enable customers to create secure and encrypted overlay networks across public clouds including AWS and Azure and On-Premise Data Centers.
This new services will provide unparalleled connectivity security and visibility across multi-cloud IT resources regardless of whether the underlying infrastructure is VMware based or not.
I’m pleased to announce that we’re already offering the first set of limited trials for this service operating on top of Amazon Web Services.
We’ll be investing in similar ways across our portfolio of products to extend their functionality to work with native public cloud applications.
As an example of this we will extend the capabilities of vRealize automation to manage applications built on Azure in addition to AWS and on other cloud services.
At the center of our business Mobility Portfolio AirWatch secures and manages the delivery of cloud applications to users across a world of heterogeneous devices.
VMware’s new multi-cloud and multi-device strategy will transcend the limitations of individual cloud services by providing customers with the ability to run manage secure and connect all their applications across all clouds and all devices.
VMware will also continue to support EMC’s Virtustream service which is focused on supporting mission critical workloads in the cloud and Virtustream will continue to be an important vCloud Air network partner.
I’d like to turn now to our announcement regarding our CFO’s succession.
I regret to announce that Jonathan Chadwick has decided to leave VMware and expand his advisory roles working with a number of companies as a non-executive board member.
I have greatly appreciated Jonathan as a partner and leader at VMware for the past three years.
We will listen and we all wish him continued personal and professional success.
I’m very pleased to let you know that Zane Rowe will be joining as our new CFO replacing Jonathan.
Zane brings a wealth of executive experience from prior leadership roles at Apple United Airlines Continental Airlines and of course most recently as CFO of EMC.
Jonathan and Zane have been collaborating ever since Zane joined EMC and they are committed to ensuring a seamless handoff through Q1 with Zane assuming full responsibility as of March 1.
Before Jonathan gets into the details I want to make a few high level comments on guidance.
As I talked about earlier we are seeing strong growth across our full portfolio of emerging products.
We’ve recognized that our blockbuster compute products are reaching maturity and will represent a decreasing portion of our business going forward even as they continue to be a powerful springboard for building our new businesses.
As you all know we continue to grow our newer product areas.
2016 will be a key transition year as we expect the effect of our new products to outweigh the decline in our compute products.
With this as a backdrop in 2016 we expect both total and license bookings to exceed revenue growth by 3 to 5 percentage points as we build our deferred revenue for accelerated growth in 2017 and beyond.
We are also keenly focused on our overall business model and managing our investments between existing product lines and new initiatives.
So today we also announced an internal restructuring and reduction in work force which will help us to align our resources with our most important priorities.
Jonathan will provide more details about these adjustments and their financial impact.
VMware has been in the journey of transformation from relying on the singular and almost unprecedented success of vSphere to becoming a multibillion dollar software company with a full suite of SDDC EUC and cloud offerings.
I appreciate that 2015 was a challenging time for VMware investors.
I know many of you have sought additional clarity about the implications of Dell’s planned merger with EMC.
We believe our expanded relationship with Dell will be very positive for our customers and for our shareholders.
Michael Dell has reached out to our major partners to assure them that VMware will continue to invest in its strong independent partner ecosystem.
Over time we see significant revenue upside from up selling our full portfolio of products and services to Dell’s new equipment sales and from accessing their incredibly strong SMB go-to market engine.
During 2016 we expect our bookings growth to outpace revenue growth as we build our momentum for accelerated growth in 2017 and beyond.
We are confident about the outstanding value we can uniquely offer customers in their multi-cloud and multi-device environments.
I’ll now turn it over to Carl to talk more about our business performance in Q4.
Thank you Pat.
We delivered results either in line or above our guidance.
I’m proud of how our teams around the world executed in Q4 particularly their ability to close large deals.
We remain pleased with the increasing breadth and year-over-year growth of our newer offerings.
We were able to deliver solid bookings results in the quarter in the phase of continued shifts we all had been experiencing as an industry for quite sometime.
VMware’s value proposition around the private cloud software defined data center and business mobility continue to resonate with our customers around the world last quarter.
We did see what I would describe as a modest budget plush at the end of December which allowed us to drive a strong enterprise agreement quarter.
We did continue to see weakness in China Russia and Brazil.
These three countries alone post a two point headwind to our overall bookings growth in the quarter.
Taking a look at our Q4 regional bookings performance on a constant currency basis in relative terms EMEA performed best followed by Americas and Asia Pacific.
Note all closed metrics that I will reference on this call are in constant currency terms.
In EMEA we were pleased with our overall business across Europe with the strongest bookings coming from Central Europe particularly Germany which were powered by some larger deals.
We also experienced strength in the UK.
As I indicated earlier Russia continued to be challenging due to the economic environment.
In the Americas stronger performance in the U.S.
was partially offset by weakness in Latin America particularly Brazil.
The U.S.
enterprise and healthcare markets performed well in the quarter.
In APJ we saw good bookings results out of India Japan and Southeast Asia offset by continued weakness in China as experienced by many of our peers.
Total bookings in China were down nearly 40% year-over-year.
We saw a strong execution in our large deals in Q4 enterprise agreements were approximately 42% of total fourth quarter bookings.
This was our highest EA quarter in VMware’s history and up from approximately 39% last Q4.
This strong performance demonstrates commitments by our customers to invest in VMware’s expanded solutions offerings.
We closed six deals at or over $10 million in the quarter and had a healthy mix of new EAs as well as EA renewals.
Our end quarter renewal rates for EAs were equal to our record high and our large deals once again included a strong mix of our newer technologies.
For example all of the top ten deals contained EUC nine of the top ten deals contained NSX and six of our top ten deals contained vSAN.
This reflects the increasing strategic value our customers rely on from VMware.
Our end-user computing business continued its market momentum with a strong performance in Q4.
End-user computing including AirWatch grew license bookings over 20% year-over-year in Q4.
For 2015 EUC total bookings grew over 30% year-over-year and we are now over $1.2 billion annual run rate.
We believe we continue to gain share against the competition in both desktop and mobile and in 2016 our EUC license bookings could surpass that of our nearest competitor.
I’m pleased to say that we now have over 62 000 end-user computing customers across our desktop mobile identity and content collaboration solutions.
Breaking down our Q4 EUC business a bit further the desktop business once again grew license bookings double-digits year-over-year.
AirWatch grew license and subscription bookings nearly 50% year-over-year in Q4.
For 2015 our AirWatch total bookings grow over $370 million which we believe makes us the clear number one in the enterprise mobile management space.
Looking back at 2015 our end-user computing business made significant contributions to our overall business.
I would like to thank the team for their hard work and commitment to making VMware a powerful force to be dealt with in end-user computing and enterprise mobility.
I’ll now switch for a moment to our software-defined data center or SDDC products.
Our total compute bookings were roughly flat year-over-year in Q4.
This includes our support and subscription business and reflects the extraordinary participation and renewal rates that we enjoy with our customers.
Compute license bookings declined in the low-double digits year-over-year and management license bookings grew in the low-teens year-over-year in Q4.
Our newer high growth SDDC product which includes NSX and vSAN grew license bookings robustly.
We expect license bookings growth in 2016 from our faster growing newer SDDC products in aggregate to more than offset the decline of compute.
Our cloud management penetration is now over 17% of our installed base up from 14% in Q4 2014 still leaving plenty of headroom for growth.
We saw continued momentum in Q4 for our network virtualization solution VMware NSX.
We are pleased to say that total NSX bookings more than doubled in the second half of 2015 as compared to the first half.
We are now well over $600 million annual total bookings run rate versus over $200 million last year at this time.
Based on these results in both Q4 and 2015 it is obvious that our investment in a specialized network and security sales force is paying off.
We will accelerate our investment in this specialized sales force throughout 2016.
In Q4 the number of paying customers increased over 1 200 over a third of which are repeat customers with multiple NSX purchases.
As I indicated earlier nine of our top ten enterprise agreements included NSX.
We are seeing many of the largest companies in the world recognized VMware’s NSX as the clear industry leader for network virtualization.
We had a number of big NSX deals in the quarter the biggest being with a large automobile manufacturer.
Another example of our momentum behind NSX is with Sabre the leading technology provider to the global travel industry.
Sabre is using NSX in production with customers of its intelligence exchange platform.
They choose NSX for its improved network security streamline networking policies and significantly increased speed to market for their customers.
They expect their NSX environment to grow extensively as more of their airline customers adopt their new intelligence exchange platform.
We continue to see increasing production use of NSX.
These appointments are across a wide variety of use cases in the three broad categories of IT automation security including our micro-segmentation capabilities and application continuity.
We remain confident regarding our future opportunities in the networking space and seeking extraordinary strong pipeline heading into 2016.
Summarizing a few other product areas our hyper-converged offerings based on VMware Virtual SAN experienced significant traction.
Specifically our Virtual SAN business saw successes across a wide variety of industries market segments and geos.
In Q4 total vSAN bookings grew nearly 200% year-over-year and customer count has increased to over 3 000 versus over 1 000 a year ago.
We are now well over $100 million annual run rate per total bookings.
With our next release of vSAN in Q1 we expect our momentum to build given the powerful new enterprise capabilities the product brings to market.
Taking into account the hardware associated with running the Virtual SAN software and our current booking to run rate we believe we are the industry leader in the hyper-converged offerings measured both by software and as an appliance.
Last quarter we expanded our partnership with Kroger one of the world’s largest grocery retailers.
Kroger will leverage VMware’s Virtual SAN software-defined storage technology do help further reduce their operating costs in IT footprint in their stores.
Kroger expects to realize a compelling ROI from vSAN and vSAN is a key component of their thin at the edge initiative.
Turning to the hybrid cloud.
Total bookings for vCloud Air Network grew in the low-teens year-over-year.
We continue to see significant interest from cloud and service providers around the world who want to take advantage of our hybrid cloud technologies.
Jonathan will provide more color on vCloud Air in a moment.
As we look into 2016 we are excited about the future of VMware.
The performance of our new products in Q4 gives us confidence and momentum as we head into the New Year.
Before turning it over to Jonathan I would like to thank him for his business partnership over the last three years.
I wish him all the best to see embarked upon his next journey.
I would also like to welcome Zane to the VMware team.
Having known and worked with Zane for quite some time it is clear to me he’s certainly a welcome addition to our team.
With that let me turn it over to Jonathan.
Thank you Carl.
Our Q4 in 2015 results met or exceeded our revenue and operating margin guidance for the quarter and the year.
Before I go into detail in Q4 and guidance for 2016 I want to summarize how we performed in 2015.
2015 non-GAAP total revenues grew 13% year-over-year in constant currency or 10% as reported.
License revenues grew 9% year-over-year in constant currency in 2015 or 5% as reported.
Our non-GAAP operating margin for the year was 31.8% and our non-GAAP EPS for 2015 was $4.06 per share.
For the full year 2015 our hybrid cloud and SaaS offerings represented just over 6% of non-GAAP total revenues with a growth rate of nearly 80% year-over-year versus 2014.
License bookings beyond standalone vSphere ended the year at greater than 65% of total license bookings which is up from greater than 30% three years ago when we began to aggressively expand to new product areas.
As we expected standalone vSphere continues to decline in year-over-year terms as well as a percentage of our business.
Before I get into Q4 results I’ll highlight Carl’s statement of in 2016 we expect dollar growth in newer products SDDC license bookings including from NSX and vSAN will be greater than the dollar declining compute.
I will comeback to this point again and I’ll provide guidance in a few minutes.
Turning to Q4.
License revenues were $825 million up 11% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 6% as reported.
Q4 total revenues were $1.9 billion up 12% year-over-year on a constant currency basis or up 10% as reported.
Diluted non-GAAP EPS for Q4 was $1.26 per share or approximately 423 million shares.
In Q4 as we committed two year ago.
AirWatch became neutral to non-GAAP EPS in fact AirWatch was slightly profitable in the quarter.
We’re proud of the performance of the entire AirWatch team as they achieve this important milestone along with the significant bookings growth mentioned by Carl.
Our balance sheet remained strong with cash and short-term investments at quarter end of $7.5 billion up 6% from Q4 2014.
Total unearned revenues were $5.1 billion up 5% from Q4 2014 and $1.8 billion of this is long-term.
The 2016 guidance our first point tab we currently estimate currency will have approximately half percentage point negative impact to both total and license revenue.
For the purposes of guidance we are applying an average U.S.
dollar to Euro rate of $1.10.
Obviously if this changes our assumptions around currency effects could change and we’ll update you accordingly.
With that as a background we expect total revenues for 2016 to be between $6.785 billion and $6.935 billion or up 2% to 4% year-over-year.
Without the effect of currency total non-GAAP revenues for 2016 would otherwise be expected to grow 2% to 5% year-over-year.
License revenues for the full-year are expected to between $2.660 billion and $2.760 billion both reported in constant currency this is approximately flat year-over-year at the midpoint of our guidance range.
You will calculate it that our total revenue growth to exceed our total bookings growth for each of the past six quarters.
And that license revenue growth equaled or exceeded license bookings growth in the five of the past six quarters.
While we had a good finish to the year we were not able to build deferred license revenues for 2015.
This reflects the revenue recognized in 2015 or previously deferred revenue combined with our bookings performance throughout the year.
As I covered earlier we are expecting to see a key transition in 2016 with license bookings growth in 2016 from our faster growing newer SDDC products in aggregate to more than offset the decline of compute.
As Pat stated at the beginning of this call for the full year 2016 we are expecting total and license bookings growth to exceed total revenue growth by approximately 3 to 5 percentage points.
This is being driven by growth in newer SDDC products including NSX and vSAN as well as our end-user computing and vCloud Air Network businesses.
As a result we expect to resume building deferred license revenues in the second half of 2016.
For the full year 2016 we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 31.5%.
Excluding vCloud Air our non-GAAP operating margin is expected to be approximately 33.5% for the full year 2016.
We all know that we are separately disclosing the effect of vCloud Air that is expected to have on various financial metrics in 2016 on a slide in the deck accompanying this call.
In addition as Pat stated we’ve recently initiated resource realignment and restructuring plan.
We are restructuring approximately 800 jobs over the course of the first half of 2016 and are reinvesting the associated savings in field technical and support resources associated with our growth products.
We expect to take a GAAP charge of between $55 million and $65 million in the first half of 2016 associated with this action.
Regarding taxes for 2016 we expect a non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 20%.
This reflects a greater mix of revenue and profits in the U.S.
which puts an upwards bias on our tax rate which is somewhat offset by the permanent reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit in late 2015.
Moving to cash flow we’re expecting that cash flow from operations will be approximately $2.25 billion or a growth rate of approximately 18.5% year-over-year.
We now expect capital expenditures to be down slightly from 2015 approximately $270 million.
As a result free cash flow will be approximately $1.98 billion for 2016 or up 26.5%.
Now I want to discuss share repurchase for a moment.
In Q4 we repurchased just under 1 million shares of stock for approximately $75 million which brought total repurchases for 2015 to 13.5 million shares totaling $1.13 billion.
This was slightly less than the $1.2 billion in repurchases we had planned for in 2015.
As the proposed Dell-EMC merger reduced the number of days we could be in the market during Q4.
We got a lot of comments from shareholders requesting that we engage in a substantial share repurchase program.
We hear you.
Right now we’re subject to a number of legal and regulatory constraints.
Our Board and management are actually working the issues and we’ll get back to you as soon as we can.
For modeling purposes only we have included the impact of a share repurchase program equivalent to our average annual repurchases over the last three years were approximately $800 million weighted towards the back half of the year.
This results in a share count of approximately 423 million shares for the year and a non-GAAP EPS range of between $4.07 and $4.16 per share.
For Q1 2016 we expect total revenue to be between $1.55 billion and $1.60 billion or up 3% to 6% year-over-year on both a reported basis and in constant currency.
License revenues for Q1 are expected to be between $555 million to $585 million.
At the mid-point this implies a decline of approximately 1% year-over-year or approximately flat year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
For Q1 we expect non-GAAP operating margin to be approximately 28% and non-GAAP EPS between $0.83 and $0.85.
As in prior years we expect our operating margin performance to reach a seasonally strong high in the fourth quarter and to be seasonally lowest in Q1.
We’re investing in our growth areas such as NSX in the first part of 2016 and expect to see the full benefit of the restructuring I mentioned in the back half of the year.
We encourage you to model the year accordingly as you take into account our full year and first quarter guidance.
As always remaining guidance for Q1 in 2016 is included in the slide deck posted on our Investor Relations website.
In summary I want to thank the entire VMware team for a good finish through a very busy 2015.
It has been my great pleasure for being part of the team for the past three plus years.
And I want to wish Zane the very best of luck in the role going forward.
We’ve worked closely together since he joined EMC and I know he will do very well.
And with that I’ll turn it back to Paul.
Thanks Jonathan.
Before we begin the Q&amp;A I’ll ask you to limit yourselves to one question consisting of one part so we can get to as many people as possible.
Operator let’s get started.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will now go to Brent Thill with UBS.
Thanks good afternoon.
Jonathan just on the guidance can you just talk through a little bit about how you are taking the macro and new account versus some of the internal operational metrics that you look at on the guidance? Tim Cook had mentioned on the Apple call about unprecedented conditions everywhere they look.
Are you seeing the similar things that Tim is talking about? And how do you factor that into the guidance? Thank you.
Brent thank you for the question.
And first as we start the Q&amp;A just – it’s good to be back talking to the analyst community and the investor community and thank you for the time and interest today.
It's a great pleasure to be able to layout a clear view of our going forward strategy in the multi-cloud and multi-device world right well and so how we see this 2016 as being a critical transition year and setting up for the long-term growth of the company.
With that the guidance question is very appropriate Brent Jonathan if you could fill in the specifics.
Yes sure and I'll ask Carl to add on specifics around the macro.
As we said on the Q3 call we’d expect to see higher bookings growth overall in the second half.
While we did see growth we didn't see it meet our internal expectations.
And that that obviously had an impact specifically on the macro.
What we talked about was in Q4 alone the BRIC countries although the Brazil Russia and China in particular caused a 2 point headwind in and of themselves.
So that is something we are continuing to track and that is definitely a co-factor as we think about the guidance overall that we've given and go into more detail but I think that addresses your macro question overall.
Thank you Brent.
Next question please.
We’ll now go to John DiFucci with Jefferies.
Thank you.
My question is for Carl.
Carl I think you’ve scared a lot of people on the last call when you talked about a massive secular shift on the last earnings call because as you know the stock trades – stocks usually trades on fundamentals but there is a lot happening with VMware right.
We all know that.
And fundamentals aren’t always would seems to be driving the stock.
But when you talk about a massive secular shift and put it in those kinds of words I think you’d scared a lot of people for good reason.
And in this time – in this call you did talk about the secular shifts we've all been dealing with for a while and it sounded like you sort of soften that.
So I just want a little clarification on that.
And I mean listen we know it’s challenging out there.
We know people are moving to sort of public cloud workloads and all of that.
But can you talk to us a little bit more – give us a little more color of how you’ve positioned VMware for that and the like I don’t know your customer base is typically enterprise for instance while though you do have some midmarket and maybe the midmarket goes first.
What are you seeing in regards to this secular shift? And is it something that we should be – certainly something we should be thinking about but is this something that that is going to have a very significant impact on your business over the next year? Yes thanks John.
So first of all I didn’t mean to scare you or anyone on the last call.
So let me give you some additional color as to how we’re thinking about some of these transitions we’re seeing in the industry.
So first I just say everyone not just VMware is experiencing significant transitions in our industry today.
And in fact we at VMware – we’ve been speaking about this secular shift one from client server to mobile cloud for quite some time.
And that is no longer a prediction but is now seen clearly by all in the market.
So I think it’s something everyone is seeing.
As we think about our business John we believe we’re firmly planted on both sides of that shift.
We’re helping our customers to transform their existing environments.
And as we do that we believe it gives us a tremendous potential for upside growth in areas like network storage and management some of them are highlighted in my prepared remarks.
We also believe we’re firmly established on the other side of that shift in mobility and cloud especially with some of the additional strategies that Pat laid out today.
For example the NSX strategy we laid out is a clear opportunity for us across multi-cloud world that we live in going forward.
And over the last few months John I will tell you as you would expect we’ve been out in front of our customers on a global basis and our customers are clearly and increasingly looking to us as a strategic advisor to help them navigate the transition I think we’re all experiencing in the industry.
And we’ve been watching and tracking quite closely a number of both industry analyst reports and financial reports that talks about IT spending trends and even CIO surveys in 2016.
And just about everyone VMware is viewed as one of the top strategic IT vendors for our customers.
So we think we’re in a very good position.
And based on this strategy we laid out today and I’ll ask Pat to give a little bit more color in a momentum John we’re seeing in our newer products.
We really believe our position will only be strengthened both in 2016 and beyond.
And Pat may be you can give a little more color on some of the announcements you made today around our cloud strategy.
Yes and thanks for the question John.
And clearly as we’ve described in my formal comments we see VMware as multi-cloud and multi-device strategy that we layout transcends the limitations of any individual cloud service.
We provide customers the ability to run manage secure connect applications across clouds across devices and we do that through what we’re doing with private cloud where we have clear momentum in our SDDC technologies.
And the Carl’s subscription today on the call of the very powerful momentum we’re seeing in these is very strong evidence of the momentum we have in private cloud extending the SDDC with our cloud offerings with the rich partnerships with our vCAN network as well as the vCloud Air strategy we described today.
And finally and may be most significantly on today’s call is this ability to connect secure and manage across all clouds with NSX vRealize and AirWatch across clouds and devices and our ability to do NSX vRealize on AWS Azure and other public clouds is clear evidence right of the strength of our cloud strategy going forward.
Thank you John.
Next question please.
We will now go to Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Hi Carl I guess probably a question for you.
I’m wondering you’ve made some comments on the call last quarter talking about customers having some architectural uncertainty and that impacting spending.
And I’m wondering it’s been three months you’ve been through Q4 which is a big quarter.
Have you at all changed your view on that dynamic that you described last quarter? Yes.
So as I just mentioned kind of a follow-on question to the one I just got from John Walter clearly the industry as we’ve all seen this isn’t a VMware phenomenon that’s going to a transition.
But in Q4 I must say I was very pleased with our ability to execute and close larger deals as customers thought about what does their new architecture for the future look like.
And they see VMware as I tried to describe right sitting on both sides of the shift that’s taking place were helping them to transform their data center and they’re also looking to us for guidance on how to leverage public and hybrid cloud solutions going forward.
So in Q4 based on our execution I think we did quite well.
Our enterprise agreements were up to a record 42% of total bookings in the quarter.
And I’m not going to say that we didn’t see customers take an extra look at every capital expenditure they’re making or before they move into a large enterprise agreement with someone like VMware.
They clearly have done that.
But overall I think our customers are seeing VMware’s strategy and vision come together and we’re executing on a lot of our newer products as you heard in my prepared remarks which are in a number of the new ELAs and renewal ELAs.
So I think our sentiment coming out of Q4 and the strength of our EAs gives us confidence in our ability to continue to be relevant for our customers in the future.
Thank you Walter.
Next question please.
We will now go to Philip Winslow with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
Walter just asked about just the trends of the core businesses and some of the things you mentioned of – various kind of moving parts influencing that but if I look at some of your new areas that you called out you know NSX and then vSAN I guess how would you sort of compare and contrast sort of where we are in terms of those sort of taking off and the feedback from customers in terms of just adoption rates there and how you think about it through 2016 and sort of beyond relative to some of these called feeling out headwinds that people are making right now between public cloud private hybrid and there’s two kind of curves.
How should we think about those and how do you guys think about those? Yes maybe sort of a little bit broader context to the answer to start with Phil.
Overall we just had tremendous momentum in the newer products in Q4 and as Carl touched on in his formal remarks NSX vSAN AirWatch very strong quarters.
As we said clearly as we said 2016 is this transition year where we see the effects of those emerging markets and the strength of those offsetting the shifts in the core business that we’ve been working through and this is a powerful trend for us as it sets up a long-term growth in 2017 and beyond.
Right and as we are making that shift we see that the strategy that we laid out for private cloud extending that into the public cloud in the multi-cloud strategy is extremely well-positioned for what customers are looking for on both sides of that trend as Carl has described.
Carl maybe a few more specifics on the emerging products.
Sure.
So Phil as you know for a number of years we’ve been expanding our product portfolio outside of compute and it’s been a big strategy of ours to sell no more naked vSphere as we got into these new products and we’ve talked about a transition that would happen.
It wasn’t a matter of it was a matter of it it was really about when we’d start to see our newer products offset some of the decline we saw in our compute business.
And coming out of Q4 we saw a significant strength as Pat indicated in things like vSAN NSX AirWatch our VCloud Air network once again saw strengths.
So all of these newer products are starting to resonate with our customers and we believe that growth in FY16 will outpace the decline that we expect to see in the stand-alone compute.
So we are pretty excited about these newer opportunities and we think that transition is well underway based on the results coming out of Q4.
Thank you Phil.
Next question please.
We will now go to Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Great.
Thank you.
I was just wondering Pat if you could give us a sense of how big of a drag you see the core compute business impacting your license in total revenue guidance for 2016.
Can you give us an idea of the magnitude of the decline that you’re expecting in that for those line items? Thank you.
Sure thank you Heather and great to be talking to you again.
In the compute space on premise compute is the maturing market.
And inside of that maturing we have very high market share but also high penetration.
The total compute bookings were approximately flat in 2015 there continues to be a huge cash flow generator and a strong driver rate of return bookings and by driving extraordinary renewal rates.
The new compute licenses did decline year-on-year which we expect that trend to continue as we go forward and they were largely offset by the new product areas and we do see that transitioning in 2016 as we’ve described.
And it sets us up well for the long-term growth.
Jonathan anything else you want to add to that.
I think I would just add that we did see good strong growth in some of our combined products.
If you remember our strategy overall has been to sell no more naked vSphere and while the ongoing deceleration standalone vSphere was a little bit more pronounced in Q4 which drove the decline that Pat just talked about in overall compute we saw growth in vCloud Suites and in vSAN which both of which include Virtustream as you know.
So I think that’s a strong indication that our overall combined product and packaging strategies are working as we think about the newer drivers of our growth going forward Heather.
Thank you Heather.
Next question please.
We will now go to Kash Rangan with Bank of America.
Hey guys.
Thanks you for taking the time to walk through the model transition.
So if I understand right the decline is going to be outpaced by the growth and to be followed by re-acceleration in calendar 2017 how confident you feel about your assumptions that this increase in the new business can continue to outpace the decline in the core of vSphere.
Or is there risk that vSphere could decline even more that you could be in for a couple of years of this transition as supposed to one year of the transition? Thank you very much.
Yes Kash obviously there is unknowns on the marketplace but given the strength we ended Q4 of the year with the new product growth is really on a strong trajectory at this point.
And as they continue to grow we’re confident and as Carl mentioned in his formal remarks we have an extraordinary pipeline for NSX as one example as we begin the year momentum in all of the growth product areas and we are now as Jonathan just described on vCloud Suite vSAN.
We’re pretty well-versed and how the compute trajectory looks for the forward.
We feel very comfortable with the trajectory we have the transition year in 2016 and the acceleration of long-term growth.
Carl? I think Pat I think you’ve covered it.
Based on that Q4 momentum you just spoke about Pat we believe particularly things like [indiscernible] and NSX have reached the size and growth rate to become meaningful to our overall bookings in 2016.
So I’m – as Pat said we can always think about some different dynamics in the market but based on what we are seeing coming out of Q4 we think the growth in these newer products will absolutely offset the decline in compute that we saw exiting 2015.
Thank you Kash.
Next question please.
We will now go to Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.
Yes thank you very much.
Pat regarding your public cloud strategy with vCloud Air I wanted to ask you to the extent that that has not generated the same level of visibility or excitement with your partners and customers just relative to what you’ve seen out of NSX and vSAN.
I’m wondering to what factors you would attribute that difference and why did you decide to shift that to a narrower focus rather than perhaps doubling down on your vCloud Air investments.
Yes.
We look carefully and after the considerations and after we had the Virtustream joint venture considerations yes we decided that our focused strategy was the best use of our capital investments right of our unique focus on services that are highly differentiated for VMware customers.
And as we describe the hybrid services around data center extension hybrid networking disaster recovery.
These are unique services.
We also have a great deal of interest from our vCloud network partners in those services.
So our go forward strategy is want to focus on those services our best highest right most important customers directly but indirectly extraordinary amplification through the broad vCloud Air Network.
And this I will also point out vCloud Air Network is a significant expanding profitable and growing business area for VMware and that’s we are increasing confidence that we can amplify our unique investments through that broad vCloud Air Network.
Thank you Mark.
Next question please.
We will now go to Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Excellent guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
VMware and more broadly EMC is going through a lot of changes right now and that always runs the risk of execution challenges and the challenges in keeping to people focus.
Anything that we should be aware of in terms of increased attrition within employees or increased disruption that you guys have been experiencing in Q4 as work towards the [indiscernible] or anything we should be aware of on a going forward basis in terms of extraordinary execution risk given sort of the disruptions taking place in your business? Yes thank you.
I think there is always questions around talent.
We’re so focused on our talent and our people.
Talent wants to be part right.
And people want to be part of a company that they are passionate about the vision right.
They like who they are working with the problems that they are working on and VMware is that place.
And we continuously focus on making it the kind of place that people have the problems and the opportunities that they want.
What we’ve seen is that as we’re laying out the strategy for the future right.
People are excited about that.
We also see that our product strategy and we’re coming up on a major cycle of product announcements as well has our product teams enthused for the year as well.
We’re about to go into our leadership in sales kickoff as well right.
We’re firing up for our 2016 vision that you heard us describe today.
We believe that we are now well-positioned to execute on this year and set up for long-term growth in the future and we have the people resources and the passion to accomplish that.
Thank you Keith.
Next question please.
We will now go to Michael Turits with Raymond James.
Hey guys.
I’m Michael Turits.
What are the - saw this as the guidance I think was free cash flow at $1.98 billion.
I know you are guiding to lower CapEx probably than we had originally thought of prior to the original Virtustream as announcement.
But either way it looks like very solid guidance and yet.
We’ve had free cash flow disappointments in the past.
So given the fact that the income statement is being guided lower what gives you the confidence that you can do this free cash flow number? I was going to bring this up if you didn’t ask me Michael.
So the way I would think about this is don’t forget in 2015 we had a pretty soft cash flow guide mainly driven by a number of one-time items.
Just very quickly the foreign exchange conversion of overseas receivables during a pretty tumultuous year in the foreign exchange markets.
The AirWatch operating cash flow impact associated with earn outs on the transaction and the GSA settlement that we talked about in I think Q2 these all items had a particularly large impact in 2015.
And to a larger extent they are reversing.
They are going away in 2016.
So as you appreciate also cash flow is a function of billings less expenses.
It doesn’t get more simple than that.
Bookings and therefore billings little bit lower than we planned in 2015 that had an impact and while we managed cost carefully during the year that affected operating cash flow.
When we think about that going next year we’re taking actions as you picked up to manage our cost base so you’ll see a healthy return to positive cash flow in 2016.
We see the bookings transition the Carl and Pat have talked about.
And then as we think about the free cash flow there are a number of things to think through here.
One is we’re thinking a far more targeted approach with respect to vCloud Air reality is we deployed a fair amount of asset base over the course of the last couple of years and while it has never been a significant CapEx investment.
We’re very confident to the next year plus we’re going to be position to leverage the existing build out the next couple of years.
The other thing is on the CapEx side larger facility costs are behind us.
In particular around the world our Palo Alto buildings and Bangalore buildings are complete.
And then you have picked up that the big delta between the last time we talked to you and this time is ultimately not participating in the Virtustream joint venture.
And that’s a significant elimination in our CapEx forecast.
So the key thing though is that the outlook for 2016 for both OCF and FCF shows significant improvement in both measures.
I want to point out we’re actually above our cash flow guide for this year.
And so as we think about 2016 that 26% or just over 26% free cash flow growth I feel very confident about.
Thank you Michael.
Next question please.
We will now go to Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
Patrick Jonathan just generally on the growth margin trade-off despite the material deceleration and revenue growth that you’re guiding to in 2016 you’re actually guiding the operating margins roughly comparable to 2015 and not that far off your prior guidance.
So coupled with the headcount actions you’re taking and slimming down vCloud Air.
It seems to me that you’re making operating margins a bigger priority than trying to accelerate the top line growth in 2016.
Is that the right way to summarize a lot of the data you’ve given us here? Thank you.
Yes I think it’s a balance right but we’re certainly focused on both top and bottom line.
And you’re right.
I guided to 31.5% non-GAAP operating guide for 2016.
And obviously last quarter just to recap we talked about 28% reflecting the CSP or the cloud services business with Virtustream.
So we’re at 31.5% for the year.
We’ve spent a lot of time as a team planning our investment strategy to reflect where we want to invest for the long-term.
We are specifically reinvesting the resources that are associated with the headcount reduction into the areas of growth for us NSX vSAN our storage business and also into AirWatch.
These growth businesses as we talked about are approaching key inflection point.
We’re encouraged by that momentum.
So we’re managing top and bottom line.
I’d say it’s a consistent balance.
And I think we’re doing as reasonable job as we can.
You’re right given the revenue outlook but I think the top-line is something we’re investing for as we think about that balance.
So I feel good about how we’re guiding for the profit for the year.
I’d just add to that a little bit.
We do expect that as a software company one as we continue to scale and grow the company that we can expand our operating margin profile over time.
Thank you Karl.
I think we have time for one more question.
So well let’s make this is the last question please.
And we’ll take our last question from Keith Bachman with BMO.
M&amp;A – in the context of the question is twofold.
Number one if I think about the last couple of years the long-term revenue outlook I think has come down a bit particularly as we reflect on the guidance that you just gave.
The second is you now have – or presumably going to have a different parent company out there with Dell and EMC.
And so how do you think about M&amp;A as you look out over the next 12 months with that as a backdrop? Is M&amp;A is one of the ways you think about to try to reaccelerate growth more specifically? Thank you.
Yes our M&amp;A strategy excuse me – the M&amp;A outlook that we have is unchanged in the sense that we continue to look for M&amp;A right to complement for our organic growth in R&amp;D as an opportunity to expand the company right.
As Dell has clearly communicated the VMware cash flows will be used by VMware and we think that M&amp;A use of those cash assets is an important aspect of our capital allocation strategy.
And against the strategy that we’ve laid out we fully believe that we’ll be taking advantage of M&amp;A to fill in and expand our strategic opportunity going forward.
You know I’d also point out that the M&amp;A track record we’ve had over the last several years is extremely strong and the two areas – the two of the areas we highlighted of our accelerating growth this year both NSX from Nicira and AirWatch are our direct results of inorganic moves that we made and now they are paying off handsomely going forward.
So our strategy is unchanged right.
The strategy will be to continue to do M&amp;A to fill in and to drive accelerated growth over time and we’re excited about those opportunities and always on the prowl for what they might be.
Thank you Keith.
Before we conclude Pat has a few final comments he’d like to make.
Yes thank you very much.
And again we appreciate you joining the call today.
Q4 was a solid finish to 2015.
We’re pleased with the growth and the momentum behind the newer products as we’re able to describe today.
We also look forward to providing customers additional value through this extension of our strategy in the multi-cloud and multi-device way as we outlined on the call today.
Thank you again and great to be talking to you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.