Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Companies First Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Travis Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
As always thanks for your interest in the company.
As you no doubt know we released our results yesterday after the market closed.
Also yesterday Alan using a few slides had some commentary about the results our increased guidance and our growth opportunities.
That audio commentaries and slides are available on the website and because of that review yesterday we'll not be reviewing the slides again this morning.
So on our website williams.com you should be able to find a number of things that were posted yesterday afternoon.
First the earnings presentation with the audio commentary by Alan.
Second the data book that contains the usual information we make available every quarter.
Third the press release of the first quarter results.
Fourth our analyst package.
And finally a pod cast of Alan's remarks yesterday.
Also for your information the first quarter 10-Q will be filed today.
Because we reviewed these items yesterday I expect the call today will be very brief and we'll get very quickly to your questions.
In a minute Alan Armstrong our President and CEO will make some general comments after which we'll open the lines for questions.
Be aware as always all of our business unit heads are here and available to respond to your questions after Alan's remarks.
Here with me are Ralph Hill who heads up the E&amp;P Company; Rory Miller who oversees the Midstream Company; and Randy Bernard who heads up the gas pipeline.
Also Don Chappel the CFO is here as well.
As most of you are aware last Friday we announced that our wholly owned subsidiary WPX Energy Inc.
filed a registration statement related to the proposed IPO of its common stock.
Because of security law restrictions we will not be commenting at all on WPX Energy Inc.
today.
There are forward-looking statements on Slide 2 and 3 and disclaimer on oil and gas reserves on Slide 4 of yesterday's presentation.
Those are also included in the data book.
They're important and integral to the company and you should review those.
Also there are non-GAAP numbers included in these various presentations.
Those have all been reconciled back to generally accepted accounting principles and their reconciliation schedules are also available.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Great.
Good morning and thanks for joining us this morning.
I'll just very briefly capture the highlights and key notes on what was put out as a recording yesterday and is in the slide material.
First of all we're very excited to tell you we're raising guidance and this is based on both higher crude price expectations.
We are now at $95 midpoint for '11 and '12 crude.
And of course that's still well below the hoard market and current pricing for crude.
And current NGL margins of course are being lifted on that.
And in fact current NGL margins are actually just beyond the high end of range of what we have posted right now.
Also we have greater confidence on timing and performance on a number of new projects that are going to add to the balance in 2011.
So we are raising guidance for both '11 and '12 and you can see the details of that.
We're now at a -- our midpoint for '11 is now $1.55 per share on an adjusted earnings basis.
In the current quarter we had mixed results to combine and produce a very solid quarter.
Our gas gathering production volumes were negatively impacted by severe winter weather primarily in the Rockies and in the Bakken with the Bakken receiving near record snowfalls.
And of course low natural gas prices also grows low quarter-over-quarter results in E&amp;P.
However our Midstream Canada and Olefins segment came through and posted a record quarter that helped to mitigate the weakness in the gas prices.
And our Gas Pipe segment also came through with a strong quarter.
As we look into the second quarter we are very excited about how our volumes have rebounded and conditions are currently very good for tremendous earnings results for the balance of 2011.
Looking to the balance of the year we now expect our midpoint as I stated earlier EPS to be $1.55.
And we're going to hit now just some of the key factors that we expect to drive this even better performance for the balance of the year.
First of all our operating volumes have really rebounded in all of our areas.
We expect the balance of the year to be much better as the fruits of our labor in both the Marcellus and the Bakken begin to take hold both on the E&amp;P side and in the Marcellus on the WPZ Midstream side.
Also we had some major maintenance to get through in the first quarter at our big Opal Plant which is the largest single contributor to our NGL equity volumes.
Secondly new projects that we are expecting.
First of all Perdido Norte project really will be a powerful contributor to earnings in the last half of the year and not so really dependent on permitting out there as much as some continued topside work that Shell is doing on their big platform that feeds both our oil gathering our gas gathering and our Markham processing plant that -- and of all those facilities serving the Western Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
So we're really looking forward to seeing those volumes start to ramp up and we have confidence in that happening for the balance of the year.
Also our Transco Pipeline just recently placed into service 2 new projects that will combine to generate over $30 million in additional profits for the balance of the year.
And then finally the Marcellus which is really infrastructure constrained on many fronts right now will benefit from a lot of work that E&amp;P did in getting a lot of small gathering systems in the field to serve new production in those areas as well as the laser pipeline which -- and our very own Springville lateral which we expect to begin in the third quarter.
So a lot of things going on in the Marcellus on the infrastructure front some of which will directly impact our production and of course others that will drive earnings at the WPZ level.
Third on margins.
We anticipate continued strong unit NGL margins and olefins margins.
Our current forecast in margins for NGLs are really below what we are currently experiencing and if you've noticed we've really seen a nice shift up in ethane and as well as the heavier products continue to provide really record level margins.
However we also know that things can change pretty fast in this arena so we are only raising our oil prices assumption to $95 and we are holding back on our NGL crude ratio assumptions below what we're currently experiencing.
On the olefins margin side we continue to expect robust margins on this on the back of high crude oil because the rest of the world is really dependent on olefin products that are produced from crude oil of course and we continue to see growing demand for olefin derivative products outside the U.S.
So we're really -- in the past the U.S.
petchem market was fairly dependent on the U.S.
economy and it's really moved offshore right now in terms of what we're depending on.
We of course cannot say much at all about the spinoff of our E&amp;P segment to be known as WPX Energy.
I can tell you that the recent S-1 filing is spot on with what we told you to expect at the last earnings call.
I can also speak to the positive impact that we expect to see at WMB.
WMB is going to be one of the top interviewed infrastructure companies in the nation and it is going to be better-positioned than any that I'm aware of in delivering reliable growing dividends.
It will be investment grade and it will have the power of the increasing incentive distribution rights of the Williams Partners GP and this is going to allow for continued growth and free cash flows and providing -- those will be available for dividends without dilution or financing expenses at the WMB level.
So the clear and transparent growth at WPZ should provide confidence regarding our continued ability to grow distributions at the PZ level and we have already declared a 60% increase for the WMB June dividend and are targeting a 10% to 15% increase in dividend for the June 2012 WMB dividend.
And of course these targets were set before the latest increase in guidance at both PZ and MB.
So overall we're very excited about the amount of value we expect to generate in the foreseeable future for our WMB shareholders and we really are sitting at the right place at the right time with the right assets the right experience and a great financial position to rapidly expand our business' earnings power.
And with that we'll turn this over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Nice results and certainly appreciate the streamlined version here.
Alan maybe if I can start just on the olefin margins and certainly we've seen a good deal of new announcements to Dow CP [Chevron Phillps] Chem Formosa everyone looking to ramp ethylene production in the Gulf Coast.
And I'm trying to figure out with respect to Geismar and you guys trying to get a larger market share.
Is that something where their interests should help where there's more opportunity maybe to find someone with an offtake or are you finding more sort of direct competition as overall ethylene expansion perhaps ramps? Carl for some reason we're having a really difficult time hearing you but let me paraphrase what I thought I heard you ask and then hopefully you can line me out if I didn't hear that right but for some reason our audio on this end is breaking up.
I think the question was around the -- what we expect in terms of the increase for demand in the petchem space and recognizing the new announcements from Dow and Chevron Philips and some of the new announced Formosa some of the new announcements on the petchem side.
We are -- and I think then another question around what we would do at Geismar.
First of all on the ethane side I think that we're pleased to see the big petchems continuing to see the same opportunity we see in terms of being able to export ethylene derivative products and having a very low-cost feedstock here in the U.S.
to continue to provide that.
And so I think it's really going to be a matter of timing in terms of when those facilities come up versus when the ethane shows up.
But I will tell you that it is going to take a lot of the ethane projects and ethane supplies aren't going to show up tomorrow either.
There's a lot of infrastructure required to get that ethane in place as well.
So I think it's going to be a matter of how those things show up.
But on balance it looks pretty good from our vantage point in terms of the demand picking up with the available supply.
And I would tell you that there's also going to be a lot of interim small projects.
We announced our own small project there that we had at Geismar.
I think we spent $18 million and got a small I think a 3 000 to 5 000-barrel a day increase in ethane demand there.
And there's going to be a lot of those kind of projects that continue to come out and what used to be referred to as refinery tree.
We're going to see in the petchem space as well because the margins are absolutely there and so I think those short-term kind of increases that people can squeeze out of their facilities they're going to be doing.
So I think -- hopefully that answered your question.
I apologize we couldn't quite hear it on this end.
Mainly I was trying to figure out if the increase from the big petchem guys would be an opportunity for Geismar i.e they would be an offtake of Geismar or if its direct competition to Geismar.
Those plans really are at least what's been announced for the most part is direct competition with Geismar in terms of producing ethylene.
But I would tell you that beyond the ethylene obviously is derivatives like polyethylene and ethylene oxide ethylene glycol and those derivatives are a lot less capital intensive.
The facilities required for that are a lot less capital-intensive and we're pretty well-positioned there at Geismar.
There's a lot of growing derivative demand there at Geismar and we're very well-positioned to be able to deliver against that.
And we certainly have a lot of conversations going with folks that are wanting to expand the offtake there.
Great and then one other question if I could just with respect to natural gas liquids production.
I know there was a mention of a keep-whole contract that shifted a percent of proceeds so I could understand why your equity production may have been down slightly but from sort of the gross NGL has produced I was surprised to see that sequentially off from fourth quarter and didn't know if you could maybe comment as to where you saw that going for the rest of the year.
I'm going to have Rory Miller take that one Carl.
Carl that's true we are down first quarter.
Other than the Exxon contract -- excuse me some of the contracting issues that we had out there that's a big part of the step down in production.
But the other items I would say were our severe winter weather.
We were down significantly at Opal in our volumes Echo Springs and in Four Corners.
So that had a pretty big impact on our total production and of course our equity and NGL balance as well.
We also had some major maintenance that was underway at Opal and that's has been finished.
And so we expect to see volumes in the second quarter back on the growth trajectory that we had planned and we forecast.
For our next question we'll go to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
First question is just on some of your Canadian spending.
You talked about additional upgrade or processing potentially adding a lot more project spending there.
You've identified some spending.
But I'm just wondering if you would expect to see the same returns on that or what the variability might be on the returns if you were to add on some of that greater processing? The opportunity is there and/or returns there probably will remain the same.
I will tell you that I would kind of put them into maybe 4 different baskets of opportunities up there.
And if you'll look at our slides I think it's Slide 18 in our package you'll see there we've got some of the segment profit first year segment profits of those projects versus the capital shown there.
And you'll see for instance the first category I would put as an optimization project like our BB splitter and you'll see there that's about a 3x cash flow kind of project.
We invested $52 million and our range is $15 million to $20 million in segment profits for the first year there.
And so those kind of projects will be very high returns like that.
The Boreal pipeline you'll see is quite a bit lower return and part of that is just because we were building for capacity for the future and all you see there is just the first-year volumes before these additional projects come on.
But I would expect those kind of projects to be in the low teens kind of returns for those pipeline kind of projects.
And then the upgrader projects where we actually are going in and building new upgraders will be a matter of negotiation but are driven by a very high propylene margins.
So there's quite a bit of opportunity there for us to capture and it really boils down to how much we share with the upgrader.
And we're in very good competitive position there in that we've got the pipeline now and the fractionator there at Redwater.
But those would be probably in the high teens kind of returns.
And then the ethane recovery project that we did with Nova not going to comment on that in terms of where that return is but you can see what we expect for our first-year profit on that versus the capital investment on that.
And you'll see that's about a little  over a 5 multiple in terms of what we're getting from that project.
So I think that gives you a pretty good range of our expectations in that area and we're certainly anxious to get more of that business up there.
And then my other question was just -- if you look the dividend at WMB and I appreciate the language that you expect strong increases beyond 2012.
You raised the guidance at WPZ.
Olefins and Canada are all doing well so there's a lot of cash that's going to be coming out of WMB.
I'm just wondering if you can comment on where you might see the growth in the dividend whether it's even higher even in 2012 or as we go past 2012.
Ted this is Don Chappel.
I'll take a stab at it first here again.
A lot of the upgrade in our guidance is related to very strong commodity price and we certainly don't count on that when we set WPC distribution and count on that for our Williams' dividends.
So we really look at a much lower price margin environment as we think about WPC distributions and the Williams' dividend.
So that would really guide our thinking but even at that level I think the 10% to 15% that we provided for guidance in '12 and strong growth beyond is still we believe is a conservative view of what we can accomplish.
So we'll continue to look at it.
We certainly appreciate that our stock price will in large part be driven by our ability to pay an increase of dividend and we'll remain very focused on that.
So I'd say stay tuned beyond that.
So I guess -- and it's probably early to talk about this.
If you did have let's say excess returns on margins for let's say the next couple 3 years would you then flip over to a buyback or what would you do with the excess cash? Ted I think stock buyback would certainly be in the cards.
I think again we're blessed with a lot of very attractive investment opportunities so I think it'll be continuously weighing the potential reinvestment opportunities versus stock buyback.
And again if it was a more sustainable cash flow stream and then dividend would be the likely outcome.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll go to Tim Schneider with Citi.
It's Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Alan on the -- going back to the Canadian business for a second.
How do you guys go about capturing some of the existing barrels in operation in Canada? You guys have put together this slide where you show the barrels that you guys are currently recovering right now in the midst of the NGL and olefins volumes in Canada and the future barrels that are coming online.
But there's this large kind of yellow sliver that still can be captured.
What's your status in negotiation in kind of capturing some of those barrels and moving some of those projects forward and where are you in that timeline? Yes.
Great great question Faisel.
That yellow is -- basically represents the barrels from the existing upgraders as you picked up on which is CNRL and Syncrude.
And we're pretty far along.
These are big projects and complicated and things don't move real briskly on that front but we're confident in ultimately the liquids being lifted from those streams.
It really doesn't make any sense at all not to because it produces higher emissions in the air which is obviously a critical issue as well.
There's a tremendous amount of value being burnt there as that gas today is being consumed in boilers.
So there's a real big opportunity to get that and then the real question just boils down to who gets it and extracts it.
So I have great confidence in that yellow being captured.
And I would just tell you I think we are very well-positioned to capture that and negotiations are ongoing on both fronts.
I would tell you the CNRL negotiations are ahead of the Syncrude negotiations.
That's about as much as I can care to share with you on that at this point.
And can you give us an update on your kind of your dry-tree spar product in the deep gulf and where are you with negotiation with customers on that particular product for that solution? This is Rory Miller.
I'll take that question.
That's actually a wet-tree spar that we're calling GulfStar project.
I think there was an announcement that came out last week from Gulf Marine that mentioned they'd entered into an agreement with us to build a spar hole in the Gulf of Mexico and that is correct.
We have a letter of agreement signed with a couple of producers in the Gulf.
We are not at liberty right now to reveal who those players are but that is in place.
The letter of agreement includes a reimbursement provision so we can start spending money today on long lead-time items on major construction contracts and pipe contracts in anticipation of signing definitive agreements.
We're looking at probably a third quarter signing of those definitive agreements.
So that is moving ahead.
That would be our first GulfStar project.
I think we mentioned the last call the connection pipeline those are around $1 billion a piece.
And on this particular project we're looking at bringing in a JV partner so I think in all the guidance numbers that we're giving the capital is about half of that number.
So that project has been in the works for a long time.
We've been able to get much of the engineering much of the design work and much of the critical thinking done on that product done ahead of time so that we're not parallel-pathing a lot of engineering and construction at the same time.
So we think that's going to reduce a lot of the construction risk on that project and we're very excited about that.
So in terms of more details though as to the counterparties that's probably going to be more of a third quarter type of announcement.
And I wonder if I could ask a question on the E&amp;P operation is that a possibility? Or is that kind of off limits right now? Go ahead and ask your question.
I was wondering if you could kind of give us an update on what's going on with Apco Oil and Gas? Kind of what's going on with the operations there? What kind of opportunities do you see down in South America specifically in Argentina that seems to be a lot of the focus right now in terms of resource potential.
I'm just trying to get our guys' idea of how that is taking place.
This is Ralph.
Well we've got several things we're doing.
Obviously we're with Apco and the Entre Lomas concession.
We continue to do well in our major concessions down there which is the Entre Lomas the Bajada del Palo and Agua de Marga.
We also are in the process of testing some recompletion in that area of the Bakken Norte Shale and we're just in the early stages of that.
It's an old vertical well that we're testing and we have a substantial amount of acreage that is exposed to the Bakken Norte and we look forward to continue to test that acreage as we move through.
Early on we'll just be testing some vertical wells in the Gulf and then we'll do some horizontal drilling also as we find areas that we like.
Next we'll hear from Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
First couple of questions for Ralph.
Ralph the Marcellus volumes are I think still a little bit light.
Can you just walk us through the infrastructure constraints? Is it just the laser pipeline? And then maybe some specifics on where those 5 rigs are currently working right now? Holly basically it's a combination of waiting on laser and also some waiting on infrastructure in the Westmoreland and Centre Counties.
And those the Westmoreland and Centre County are in the process -- they will be fixed here most of that in the very near future.
So about half of our 30-some wells that we're waiting on completion are in that area so we look forward to those coming on.
In fact had 2 wells come on in what's called a U-shack area just over the weekend.
So we do believe as we said in the -- on our slides that production should ramp up rapidly as we alleviate the concerns of the transportation particularly the laser pipeline comes on it.
I think we put that we would have a total volumes -- and just Susquehanna by the end of the year is 70 million a day so we look for a rapid ramp up.
Our wells our rigs right now are operating in the -- 1 in Susquehanna and the others are -- 1 in Columbia County and the Geismar and Westmoreland Centre and Clearfield Counties.
Is there like a well backlog number that you have? Maybe a number of wells that has been drilled and not frac-ed or drilled and just awaiting hook up that we can kind of continue to model this ramp? Yes.
We have about a total of I believe 25 wells that are waiting on completion and have a total of -- in the 30s.
They're waiting on either -- in addition to completion on our pipeline facilities.
So when I say waiting on completion even if we completed them there's a lot that we have to do on the facility side.
So the total backlogged wells is currently 31 wells.
And then just maybe a bigger picture question for Alan.
Do you guys have an internal forecast at this point of what you expect the ramping ethane supply say maybe between now and 2014? We don't have a specific number.
We watch that and we watch that balance very closely but we do not have a specific volume forecast for that so the answer to your question is no.
I would tell you that we remain pretty confident in -- as I said earlier in the creep that will go on in all of these facilities that are either heavy crackers continuing to convert to light and there's still a lot of efficiency being gained in that area.
And I think we'll see that for the next couple of years.
And again as I mentioned projects like our own at Geismar.
And so I think we'll continue to see that and then I think those big projects in the 3 to 4-year timeframe those big projects will start to kick in.
Some of those projects that have been announced are very large-scale projects and will take a long time.
In between those 2 things there's also going to be I think expansions to existing facilities that will be rather significant.
And I think the current margin environment and the confidence in crude to gas right now is going to continue to have people investing in that space as well.
And so I think it's rare that we have on the ethane and ethylene side ethylene cracking it's rare that we see the 2 things build at the same time.
But because the margins in this environment the margins are so strong in both spaces I think we'll continue to see the ethane supplies build and I think we'll continue to see the ethane cracking capabilities build as well.
And there may be a few rocky steps here and there but right now the trajectory looks pretty good.
Next we'll go to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Good quarter.
A couple of quick questions about de-risking from a commodity risk standpoint.
Alan you've been talking for some months about the possibility of finding long-term ethane off-takers with the petrochems but in some of the more recent earnings calls industry peers kind of commented something similar to what you've just said that that it's not overly tight it's not overly loose but the petrochems see sufficient supply at this time with no immediate need for long-term bilateral contracting.
Can you comment on this and whether you see a different line of thinking from the petrochems as some of them contemplate some of these larger greenfield construction projects of worldscale crackers.
I certainly think the folks that we talk to and of course we have our own vantage point via our own petchem space there.
But I certainly think that the investors in that space recognize that there's very high margins right now available to them and I think they are leery of seeing the demand get overheated in the space right now.
And so if I can just tell you folks that we continue to talk to and continue to work towards some structured arrangements like that are obviously very concerned about long-term supplies.
And I think the effort that I think is the smart decision for the industry to look at is to look to the total pie between gas and crude and that comes back to gas to polyethylene or other ethylene derivatives.
And to figure out how they can assure themselves a portion of that margin that allows them to invest in infrastructure going forward that's got more stable earnings behind it rather than a winner and a loser across that chain but figuring out how that margin can be shared in a way that allows both parties to invest going forward in a very adequate return that exists out there.
And I hope I certainly think that the current margin environment in both those sectors doesn't lead to arrogance that will cause people to forget the past.
And certainly right -- I know the folks we're talking to anyway and are interested in working with I don't think that's the case.
Inc.</strong> In terms of the timeline I think last call or the one before you may have mentioned that it certainly wouldn't be before second half of this year possibly into early next year that we see some long-term agreement if it came.
Is that timeline still there or is it maybe being pushed out a little bit? I would say we're up against those discussions and it's kind of hard to call the counterparties' moves on those.
I can tell you there's nothing imminent at this point in time and we would certainly have liked for it to be there but there's nothing imminent at this point in time.
But again I think the motives are strong for the players and we'll continue to push in that direction.
Obviously one of the options we have is to do similar arrangements with our own ethylene cracking and look to margin sharing at the MB level and so those are the kind of things that keep us from being too soft in our negotiations is our ability to do it ourselves there at our Geismar facility.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And last question given the international demand and competitive global pricing versus global opportunities in the olefin space do you have the ability to de-risk pricing volatility for the Olefins business as well? You know that's starting to be explored by folks.
You're starting to see a lot of people that are exploiting their contacts in India and China and places like that where the demand continues to grow and so I would keep tuned to that space.
That's a great question and I'll tell you that's where a lot of the air traffic is right now is between India and China in the petchem space and a little bit of South America as well with people wanting to make sure that they can shore up those markets and have some risk reduction in those forward-looking markets out there.
So there is a lot going on but it's brand-new and most of those -- a lot of that buyers on that end aren't used to doing these longer-term structured contracts so even though there's a desire and a need there there really hasn't been a blueprint there in the past.
So there's some new ground being broken in that area but you're spot on with kind of where the thinking is going in that area.
Your next question will go to Kingston Capital Christoph Seifert [ph].
First question relates to the Midstream Canada business.
It saw the $111 million in gross profit and obviously the volumes coming out of Geismar are a lot higher than out of Canada.
But just wondered if you could have named just in general rough numbers  how much the gross profit is from Canadian propylene versus Canadian NGLs and versus Geismar.
Yes this is Rory.
You're breaking up a little bit there.
But I think what I heard is that you were looking at the breakdown between the Canadian and the Geismar plant.
Is that correct? Yes exactly.
I don't think we're -- we didn't include that in the book and I think at this point we're not prepared to provide that.
We've got a small number of contracts at this point and we feel like that's probably a little too much transparency.
Okay.
Maybe just kind of directionally then on how margins compare at -- just very broadly between an ethylene cracker on  the Gulf Coast and on the Canadian Olefins business.
I think there is a Slide in here that does a pretty good job of that.
It's titled "The Canadian Operations Focusing Feedstock Cost Advantage." And that's in the floor.
It kind of shows the difference between the margin processing the off gas up in Canada versus buying ethane and cracking it which is the business that we're doing down at Geismar.
So the total uplift is about -- and this is a rough estimate about 2/3 -- well not -- let's say a 150% better than what we would see down in Geismar.
Okay.
And then with respect to the growth in Canada do you expect that it'll be able to fund itself or do you need to divert cash from WMB to pay for it? The business up there as you can see by the numbers is performing really well.
I think at this point our cash demands aren't going to be totally funded by cash flow up there but a very large portion of it is going to be paid out of current earnings.
We also have some offshore accounts that we'll use to fund international investments like Canada.
And so for the most part we think we're going to be able to handle that load with dollars that probably wouldn't be available for the dividends anyway.
I guess just lastly maybe a broader question related to WPC and the coverage ratio I just wondered if you could comment broadly how you see that evolving over time and I think maybe that excess cash at PZ because you set the dividend based on lower commodity assumption.
If you'd do a special dividend or do you continue to fund your growth through stock and debt at PZ as you've historically done.
This is Don Chappel.
I would say that we just don't foresee a situation in which it's likely that PZ is going to build cash.
Since we have such abundant growth opportunities I think the excess earnings will just be reinvested which will reduce our needs to go to the capital markets to raise capital at PZ.
So I would say with the high margins PZ becomes more self-funding not to say that the plan won't require outside financing but all that excess cash to the extent that it's at a level -- it's based on margins that are at a level that we don't think are prudent to build into distributions will just be reinvested so we don't see idle cash sitting at PZ at all.
And then with respect to whatever your view is on normalized commodity margins what kind of distribution ratio or coverage ratio rather do you think is appropriate to target at PZ over time? I'd say it's a function of business mix and we're continuing to slowly add more and more key business in the Midstream business.
Not to say that we're not adding commodity exposure as well but proportionately we're adding -- focused on adding a bit more on the fee side than we are on the commodity side.
So we would expect our Fee business to creep as a percentage of the total which will enable us to over time have a lower coverage margin.
Then it's a function of how comfortable are we with margins.
So I think it depends where we are in the range and at what moment in time but we'd certainly like to see that drift down.
I think right now we're kind of looking at a kind of 1.2x coverage under something that might have been more like the beginning of the year margins versus what we're seeing today.
Next we'll go to Harry Mateer with Barclays Capital.
I think it relates to the prior questions on usage of cash but can you just talk about what you view as the optimal capital structure up at the WMB level? I think given all the cash you have coming in there you could certainly take out a lot of debt and I know you've stated publicly you do you plan to take out debt.
How much debt reduction should we be thinking about versus other uses of cash up at the WMB entity? Craig I don't think we want to speak our thoughts on that given that we have some pending transactions including the WPX transaction.
But I would say again we're targeting capital structure that would put us at that BBB minus level so investment grade with PZ being a bit higher as we announced back in February.
And the ratings agencies gave some guidance on as well.
So that's the capital structure and I think you can probably do the modeling to figure out what band that puts us in.
And in terms of other uses of cash...
We'll be more clear on that after the IPO.
Okay and then in terms of other uses of cash are acquisitions possible at WMB in the future? How should we think about other calls on cash down the road besides just a high dividend yield? I would say that acquisitions are possible but certainly they'll be competing against a very clear and transparent dividend value uplift but nonetheless again we think that we have plenty of opportunities or potential opportunities at least to look at.
But right now we have nothing particular in our sights other than some modest investment opportunities around the U.S.
Olefins business.
It does appear that there are no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the conference over to Alan Armstrong for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay well great.
Well thank you for the great questions this morning and appreciate the folks tuning in and being prepared from the information we put out last night.
We look forward to your feedback on this different format and see if that was helpful to you or not.
And so I just want to again say thanks for your interest in the company.
We're very excited about where we're positioned right now really across all front and are looking forward to being a little more transparent with you obviously once the WPX Energy IPO is concluded and we'll be in a position to be a lot clearer around dividend and corporate structure at that point.
So with that thank you and have a great day.
Once again that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you again for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Companies Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sharna Reingold Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
All right.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to the Williams second quarter 2011 earnings call.
As always thank you for your interest in the company.
As you know we released our results on August 3 after the market closed.
Yesterday Alan Armstrong our President and CEO had some commentary about our results.
This audio commentary and slides are available on our website williams.com that we will not be reviewing our slides this morning.
In a minute Alan will make some brief remarks and we will open the line for questions.
Please be aware that Don Chappel Ralph Hill Rory Miller and Randy Bernard are all available for any questions.
Please note that all the slides are available on our website www.williams.com.
There are forward-looking statements on Slides 2 and 3 and the disclaimer on oil and gas reserves on Slide 4 of yesterday's presentation.
They are important and integral to the company and you should review those slides.
Also included in the presentation yesterday are various non-GAAP numbers that have been reconciled back to measures included in generally accepted accounting principles.
Those reconciliation schedules and related information are included in the slides available on our website williams.com.
With that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Great thank you Sharna and good morning.
Thanks for joining us this morning in such a busy time in the markets.
We certainly did experience a great second quarter.
Our adjusted earnings per share was up 39%.
We are increasing our full year earnings outlook based on the strength of the first and second quarter and all of our business segments contributed to the gains that we had in this period.
While all our business segments are performing very well and growing according to plans we also continue to work hard on restructurings at the corporate level to unlock value for our shareholders.
As you're well aware our WPX IPO which I'll comment on in just a moment continues to move ahead.
And we are moving to a growing dividend company and expect that value to unlock significant shareholder value for WMB.
Our WPZ Holdings and our Canadian midstream olefins give us a very clear line of sight to this sustainable growth for the WMB dividends for years to come.
We continue to be very focused on maintaining our investment grade credit and maintaining a very conservative approach to managing our margins within our WPZ segment.
And this gives us a very clear growth trajectory and also gives us a very clear backlog.
We have a very clear backlog of the great projects and we're very excited about for our future.
So we've got great situations.
We sit here today and we also have great transparency about where our growth is coming from.
So we really continue to be very excited about how we're positioned today in these markets.
And so before taking your questions though I do want to briefly address our previously announced proposal to acquire Southern Union Company.
But this time Williams continues to closely monitor the situation and we are evaluating all of our options.
We won't have any further comments today regarding Southern Union or the agreement they have with Energy Transfer.
I also have a few brief comments about our planned IPO of WPX Energy.
We are ready to go with the WPX Energy IPO so as soon as market conditions are cooperative we will be prepared to launch that.
At this point we still plan to get the IPO done in the third quarter and full spin no later than the first quarter of 2012.
So as a reminder though the purpose of our call today is to discuss our very strong financial and operational performance in the second quarter and our new higher guidance for 2011.
We intend to keep today's call focused on those topics and so I appreciate your cooperation on that.
We can now open the call for questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Just a very quick clarification if I could on the WPX IPO because you just said market conditions are cooperative.
Does that mean the SEC has declared it effective? I hadn't looked at that but I just want to make sure that that's not the hold up.
It's now just more of your decision on when to go? Yes it is just our decision on when we're ready to go.
That is correct.
Okay.
Fair enough.
The questions from the quarter I guess really were twofold really on the Canada and the olefin side.
And I guess on the olefin side you had mentioned that it looks like we are going forward with an expansion of Geismar at least as far as some of the project capital that is now being put into the guidance.
And I was wondering if you could give us a better sense of how you're approaching risk management to that kind of project with respect to ethylene prices going forward.
Is part of doing this expansion an offtake agreement with someone or how should we think about risk management in terms of the Geismar expansion? Sure I would just first say that remember that on the ethane basis we're still long ethane as Williams.
And so that project actually gives us some hedge on the ethane pricing all the way through the ethylene margins.
So as we've said before we're fairly confident in the gas-to-crude ratio remaining and we're fairly confident in ethane continuing to be a favored feedstock.
And ethylene continuing to have strength in the markets.
What we're not so confident in is about who makes who gets what cut of that pie.
And so by having ourselves positioned all the way between the gas all the way to the ethylene we feel like we're de-risking some of those margins and making sure that we're not getting somebody else stuck in between us and the full margin spread there.
Having said that we are talking to a number of parties about offtake agreements.
And there is a lot of interest around that kind of project.
We already have embedded in that.
Yes the other thing I would say is there have been a lot of announced projects.
Probably they're not all going to get built but a number of them can.
And I think in terms of the Q in terms of when this expansion could get placed we think we are probably in the next tranche to pass it and come into the markets.
So we think timing is right and that there's a window of opportunity for us ahead of the other announced projects.
And Rory I'm sorry.
Have you guys actually announced either the magnitude or when the expansion would be in service? We've not formally announced that.
I think Alan mentioned it in the call in the pre-recorded reported comments.
But it's about a 40% plus increase in capacity there at Geismar.
And we're shooting for some time probably late 2013 for in-service.
But as Alan mentioned that will be going before the board in September.
Great.
And then last question if I could just on the Canadian side with the olefins and the upgrader it looks like more project capital is going to go into the upgraders as well.
How should we in that table we had the project capital you guys also have been pretty good at laying out expected EBITDA and the like.
Obviously it's a little premature at this stage.
But should we be thinking about return potential in sort of the same ZIP code as say for instance the ethane recovery and kind of the 5 to 6x EBITDA deployment? Or can you give us a better sense of how we should be thinking about that deployed capital? Yes I think the returns on the new projects are going to be generally in that same [indiscernible].
It's what we've seen so far.
And next we'll go to Steve Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
I really appreciated that you can't really talk about the subsituation you're monitoring.
I wanted to offer if I could now one very high-level question.
Do you feel -- when will we expect possibly to hear something timing wise or do you feel you're up against the cost timing wise to either say we're involved or we're going to try and do something or we're going to move on? Well Steve you know as I said we certainly are going to be a disciplined buyer.
We certainly have exciting prospects for growth and value creation in our existing strategy in executing our existing strategy and our plan to separate off our E&amp;P business as well.
And so as I mentioned earlier though we're going to try and address this call in the second quarter results and outlook.
And so it's hard to get into a conversation without waiting outside of the strict script on that so I...
Okay.
No I appreciate that.
Maybe you can talk a little bit on just with the weakness recently in oil prices and how should we be thinking about that impact on when we may be start to see switching or moving away from use of ethane? Sorry Steve.
If you -- I don't think we quite understood the basis of your question there.
Just wondering if we're going to start to see with the weaker oil price environment from your vantage point in the midstream side are you going to start to see a move away from petrochemicals using ethane as a feedstock? Have you started to get indications of that? How do you think about that over the next couple of quarters? I think we've got a long ways to go before we get into that territory.
Remember gas has moved down as well.
And so I don't think we're anywhere near that kind of ratio that we would get to that.
We have seen situations where gas oil is at times pricing below ethane a little bit.
But it's got a long ways to go.
If people started getting on that it would bring that price up pretty quickly as well.
So I don't really see that in this in the $80 price oil environment and the $4 gas.
That's still a 20 ratio which used to be something that we wouldn't even dream of.
And so I think we're a long ways from getting to a point where ethane is not the favorite feedstock.
Okay.
And then the final question can you just talk where you are right now on the next kind of several quarters you see some of the bigger bottlenecks on the oil and liquid side as opportunities for you guys? Yes and I do think there's a lot of emerging bottlenecks and we're seeing them in a lot of different places.
And I think there's a lot of infrastructure acquired in the field and we certainly have our eye on some of that.
And Ralph's team has certainly done a great job of getting their product moved out of the Bakken.
But as that field grows we certainly think it will continue to grow.
We think there's going to continue to be a lot of need for a long term permanent infrastructure in those plays as well as on the propane and heavies.
And just general petchem business in general there's a lot of shifting of volumes that is happening with this increased volume on both the light NGLs the heavy NGLs and the olefins products.
And so we are positioning ourselves to play and what we think will be a big shift.
One of the shifts obviously is Bellevue products to either locations like the Mississippi River markets.
And so we're certainly right in the middle of opportunities like that and we continue to pursue those.
Okay.
Great.
Next we'll go to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Just going back to the Geismar question.
I saw that you signed an agreement with Crosstex for some takeaways -- are you locking in any sort of feedstock costs there or is that just more pipeline services and frac and whatnot? That is obviously a confidential contract.
But it is a way for us we think to get some advantage pricing in the river.
Alan mentioned some of the bottlenecks out there.
We think that that's a going to be a very valuable contract for us particularly with our Geismar expansion.
Okay and then just shifting over to E&amp;P you said you had 70 a day I think that's weighing on the laser pipeline.
What kind of exit rate are you thinking about in the Marcellus as we come out of 2011 and then looking at the 2012 I think you said you were going to run 8 rigs in 2012? I don't think we've given specific by area by basin yet so I'm not sure if I'm during this period I'm not sure I'm allowed to do that.
But clearly we have a substantial amount of back up in the Marcellus and Laser [ph] field is going to come on in September.
We also have in the Westmoreland Clearfield Centre County areas there's a backup about another $30 million.
So I would need to check and see what we've given out publicly before I can do that.
But we obviously have said that in the future we expect the Marcellus to grow to be around when 20% or so of our volumes as we move forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just on the Canadian side you talked a little bit about the sun greater -- the Suncor excuse me upgrade or downtime.
How much did it actually hurt you from a volume and a margin perspective in the quarter? It was a pretty big blow from a volume perspective.
The good news is the margins were so strong over that period net-net we were about even with what we've forecasted.
So the strong margins definitely helped there.
But there's no doubt about it that it's hard to replace 49 days of production.
It's really as simple as 49 days.
We normally would see a couple of days of downtime.
So you really could call it probably about half from a volume standpoint.
And next we'll go to Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
I apologize I did not listen to the podcast with the craziness in the market yesterday but and I know you're going to probably talk about it on the WPC call but can you talk a little bit about Atlantic access project? It looks like that's gearing up again.
And can you talk about cost estimates time of open season a little more color on that project? Yes I'll be happy to.
This is Randy Barnard with the Gas Pipes.
We've been out in the market surveying the interest in our project and are very encouraged by the recent visits.
It's a predominantly a producer-driven project.
It's evolving to recognize the different geographies of the source or the supply; also evolving to recognize the different timing of in-service needs for the various potential shippers.
Bottom line is we think we could have a project to announce by Q4 of this year.
Open season within the next 2 to 3 months bore outs expiring October for shippers and a month later for ourselves.
A possible slippage into Q1 next year but it's very encouraging right now for a late this year announcement.
Any ballpark cost estimate? It's in the neighborhood of $1.4 billion.
But like I said it's evolving.
We may phase the project and there may be some telescope capacity.
So as we refine it that number could move.
The slide -- once you get around to looking at the slides that were placed on our website you will see that we have categorized the potential opportunities of the gas pipeline at around $1.7 billion.
$1.3 billion of investment in guidance $1.7 billion if possible.
And Atlantic access is the lion's share about $1.7 billion.
Okay.
Yes I saw the ones over at the WPZ.
And is part of that a reversal of flow on Transco and just looking at the slides there's an arrow that points down.
Actually not immediately but as Marcellus grows the reversal of flow is truly within the realm of the plumbing there.
The growth we expect to Marcellus will outstrip the zone 6 demand eventually.
So physical backflows may happen.
But what Atlantic access offers to customers initially is firm backhaul opportunities into the Transco zone 5 which its fastest growing markets today.
I mean a lot of PowerGen load coming on incremental and convergent from coal.
And so it would be a firm transportation backhaul into zone 5 with some secondary rights into zone 6.
And that would take their delivery points all the way down to the Georgia-South Carolina border at the end of the zone 5 Transco which would include Alba island as a potential if it's ever reversed and it includes cold point and everything in between.
And next we'll go to Michael Karsch with Karsch Capital.
Two questions my first one is on the IPO.
If market conditions are not suitable what could you just go right to the spin instead of having to do both steps? Michael Don Chappel good morning.
Yes we could.
Again our current plan is to continue with the 2-step process IPO hopefully this quarter followed by complete spinoff not later than the first quarter but we certainly could change those plans if the market conditions remain challenging.
And then I guess the second question I won't make it specific to the SUG acquisition I'll ask it overall.
If you bought an a company which you envisioned dropping down to WPZ a substantial amount of assets which required an equity raise at WPZ how do you think about -- let's just say that acquisition takes some period of time to close how do you think about the accretion when your stock price could move your WPZ stock price can move very substantially between the time you agreed to a deal and the close? Are there ways to mitigate that exposure? Michael I think as a follow-up to Alan's comments I don't think we want to go into the Southern Union example but I mean clearly we're looking at that with every capital project that we put on...
Exactly that's why I asked it generically.
I guess what I'm asking is you have 2 structures.
If you felt like WPZ stock was down too much could you just hold the assets for a longer period of time at the WMB level and not feel like you have to issue equity to WPZ level.
I would just say I think we have a lot of flexibility and the situation is different.
And we're faced with changing markets on regular basis.
Good news is again WPZ has a good strong base of assets and earnings and cash flows and great growth.
We think it'll be a security that investors show strong preference to we've great coverage.
So we think it will outperform the MLP space.
But there will be times when it's the whole market is tough and the MLP market's tough too.
So we'll look to have contingency plans in everything we do.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Bradley Olsen from Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
You mentioned earlier on the call the fact that as a company your long ethane and just to kind of hit on that that Crosstex Geismar agreement what was the thought process I guess strategically when you are thinking about whether to supply Geismar with ethane from a third party versus ethane from either WPZ or from the WPX business? Yes I think looking at that Crosstex deal an opportunity to see a new pipeline built from Bellevue to the river area or at least to a point that it could get into our ethane system would be a great opportunity for us.
Crosstex has got the kind of energy and the will to get that done.
And it was way to help to get that project going and help make that a reality.
We think that also is going to give us a preferred ethane price on the river compared to the other transportation options.
And so for us it seemed like kind of a no-brainer.
They have the will to do it they had some latent assets there that they can put back to use at Eunice so it was a very good fit for us and we want to support it.
I would also mention there that when we say we're long ethane obviously that is at various cleared markets.
And so as long as those markets are connected and fairly liquid between the spots we're not obviously focused on just moving our molecules of ethane into our locations.
So it's more a commercial link than it is actual physical molecules.
We're concerned about managing.
Okay.
As far as the comment that it was good to see a new pipeline from Bellevue built into the region does that imply that you guys were concerned about potentially being short-ethane in the absence of that Cajun-Sibon extension? Well more is always better if you're buying ethane.
And so there's been a pretty significant delta and price between those 2 points and this was an opportunity really to close some of that gap.
Okay.
And just jumping to the Marcellus it looked like there was on the wet cash you mentioned that CapEx budget was slipping a little bit in 2011.
Is that associated with some slippage and the timing of Marcellus projects? And I guess to that if it is related to that if you could maybe just discuss the kind of state of permitting up in Pennsylvania and whether you've come to an agreement on where Springville is going to enter Transco.
Yes just some general comments about Construction in the Marcellus it is one of the tougher places in the country to build pipeline.
The geography there is obviously not flat anywhere across the basin.
There's a lot of farming a lot of human interaction in almost every mile of pipe you build.
And so the other thing I would add too around permitting is you have to deal with the townships there as well.
So there's another level of permitting that you have to go through which adds some complexity to it.
The area in general has not seen the kind of activity that theyre seeing now ever.
And so there is a lot of change in the rules if you will that adds complexity as well.
So it has been a challenge I think over the last 2 years.
We certainly perfected our model around how to execute significantly.
But nevertheless things are moving more slowly than we would like.
I think it's the same on the producer side as well.
Everything is a little more challenging to do in Pennsylvania than it is say in the highlands of Wyoming.
So it is a challenge and we think we're making good progress on it.
But nevertheless there's some slippage.
It's not any indication of the quality of wells or the success up there which has been phenomenal so far particularly up in the Northeast area all of the performances exceeded what we had in our plans.
So we're delighted with the quality of wells but the construction is the top spot.
On Springville we got all our major permits at hand that we need to get that pipeline built.
We're under construction right now.
We're clearing right away.
We've got the major work going on the compressor stations.
We have all of our permits in hand for our major bores that we got to do some waterways and some roads.
So everything that's on a critical path right now we have a permit in hand for it.
So that's moving nicely.
We do have a couple of minor issues we're working out on the tie and point to Transco but we're confident that going to be resolved shortly.
And so you guys are still confident that Springville is a late 2011 event? Yes we're looking at late 2011.
And we'll now we'll take our last question with Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I guess given the potential for a weaker economic environment and even potentially a double-dip recession how do you think that would impact I guess the petchem's willingness to build steam crackers? Do you think that might delay the timing of their decision? And if so could the market be oversupplied with frac capacity? Well that's a very very complex question obviously.
I would just say first of all that the market that all of the new olefin capacity is being built for in North America is not focused in North American markets.
It's focused at exports.
And so the global economy obviously is the thing to keep our eye on there.
And expansions around the globe I think are critical to that.
So I do think that obviously a continued downturn in the economy would have some people backing up.
As Rory said we think we are first in the queue there so to speak with our planned expansion.
But I do think that you'd have people checking and double-checking if we went into another recession like we were in before.
There's not much doubt in my mind that that would be the case.
Whether there is ample frac-ing capacity to clear the fractionation capacity that's being built right now I think it's a pretty complex question.
Clearly the NGL space is building up very rapidly.
And there is going to have to be some cracking capacity built to consume that.
And so I think it's a great question.
I think it's a little early to call that given the very near-term events we're seeing.
And that's all the time we have for questions today.
I would like to turn it back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay great.
Thank you all very much for joining us.
Again very excited about our second quarter.
We continue to be very confident in the balance of '11 and '12 and beyond given the transparency I think we have to a lot of great projects that we think the fundamentals remain very sound on.
And while we didn't hear too much question about the current NGL market today we can tell you that we remain very confident in the margins as they exist today partially because of how high the margins got at the end of the second quarter and into the third quarter how high they've been.
We've got plenty of room for that to slip down and still be maintaining our guidance.
So we really haven't seen the degradation in that market here in the last couple of days that you might be expecting.
So we remain very confident about both the third quarter and through the balance of the year and excited about the growth in our businesses and the way those are all executing.
And very proud of the way this organization is executing on both running the business and as well as doing things like preparing for the IPO of WPX Energy.
So great efforts around here and great results to show for it.
So again thank you very much for joining us this morning.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank everyone for their participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Companies Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Travis Campbell head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Welcome to our third quarter call.
As always thanks for your interest in the company.
As you no doubt know we released our results yesterday afternoon after the market closed.
Also yesterday Alan using a few slides had some commentary about our results the new guidance and growth opportunities.
That audio commentary and the slides are available on the website.
So on our website williams.com you should be able to find a number of things that were posted yesterday afternoon.
The earnings presentation with audio commentary and a podcast by Alan the data book that contains our usual information we make available each quarter the press release of our third quarter results and our analyst package.
Also for your information the third quarter 10-Q has been filed as well.
Because we had commentary yesterday this morning's call will be fairly brief.
I know there are a number of other companies hosting called this morning so we'll go quickly to your questions so this call should be fairly short.
In a minute Alan Armstrong our President and CEO will make some brief comments after which we'll open the lines for questions.
Be aware as always all of our business units heads are here and are available to respond to questions after Alan's remarks.
Here with me today are Ralph Hill who heads E&amp;P Company; Rory Miller who oversees Midstream; and Randy Barnard who heads our Gas Pipelines.
Also Don Chappel our CFO is here and available.
On yesterday's presentation there were forward-looking statements on Slide #2 and #3 and the disclaimer oil and gas reserves on Slide #4.
Those also included in our data book.
Those are important and integral to the company so you should review those.
There are also non-GAAP numbers included in various presentations.
Those have been reconciled back to generally accepted accounting principles.
Those reconciliation skids are also available and follow all of our presentations.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Great.
Thank you Travis and good morning and thanks for joining us.
First of all a great quarter solid performance and significant growth in all of our segments.
And certainly we're excited that our continued better-than-expected cash flows in our infrastructure business have now provided us with the option to go directly to a spin without an IPO if we don't see the markets become more stable and supportive of IPO.
In the quarter certainly you started to see the benefit of a lot of our projects that we've invested in the last couple of years really starting to kick in.
Really across-the-board the -- certainly the Bakken's kicking in for E&amp;P.
The Perdido Norte project really starting to pick up volumes and help to fill up our Markham facility and as well our Echo Springs facility that's now just had its 1-year anniversary of the new train being built there.
We actually hit a record in the quarter of 41 000 barrels a day and are now operating a little over that.
So you should expect to see more of this to come as these projects we've been investing in continue to kick in.
Finally our business really is perfectly positioned to reap the benefits of this U.S.
turning to natural gas.
I think you're going to continue to hear more and more about that.
Our infrastructure will be very well positioned to help arbitrage the tremendous spread between natural gas and oil-based products and as well is positioned there to provide services to get natural gas into the critical markets and provide critical access.
We're certainly starting to see a lot of strains on the infrastructure in some of the growing basins like the Marcellus where infrastructure has become critical to getting the production on.
So we're very excited about where we're positioned right now and excited to talk to about -- to you about the quarter.
So with that I'll turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Jason Gilbert from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Post the spin on WPX you're going to be left with the Williams Hold Co.
It's going to have very few assets other than the Canadian Midstream and Olefins and then the ownership in the Emaltino [ph].
I was wondering what's your ultimate vision for how this Hold Co.
structure is going to look? And is there a need for Williams Hold Co.
down the line or could we expect that to be collapsed at some point? I'll take that.
Well certainly Williams Hold Co.
will hold the general partner obviously for WPZ as well as a large number of units for WPZ.
And as we've explained in the past eliminating that would come with pretty significant tax realization.
And so we really don't see much reason for doing that.
We also see an ability to continue to incubate and use Williams Companies in acquisitions as well when things aren't a perfect fit.
So we like having that vehicle there and there's certainly a lot of financial reasons for leaving the Hold Co.
in place.
And we'll go next to Ted Durbin from Goldman Sachs.
Randy [ph] from Fangles [ph].
It looks like your CapEx in the Midstream in Canada guidance is up a decent amount for '12 and '13.
You didn't really lower '11.
The first may be a timing issue but maybe just talk to -- I think these numbers are higher than what they were at the analyst day.
Yes I think most of that change -- this is Rory Miller -- most of that change a result of us having better definition on the capital projects.
We've advanced some of the engineering on that and those particular projects that are in guidance are in this negotiation tables have been pushed out.
We also have in that same set of pie charts the Geismar expansion I know you asked specifically about Canada but the Geismar expansion is in those numbers as well.
Right.
So I was asking about the whole segment.
So I guess would you say most of the delta is just Geismar? Or is there other Canadian spend as well? Yes.
I don't think we've added any new Canadian things; it's really just more of refining the cost estimates.
This is Don Chappel.
I just again note that on analyst day we spoke the Geismar but it was not yet included in our guidance.
So this is the first time we've included the Geismar expansion in our guidance numbers.
Okay.
And then if I could just shift over to a couple of questions on E&amp;P.
I think your last sort of release you said you're planning to run 8 to 9 rigs in the Marcellus by year end 2012.
You're now saying 6 to 7.
Was that just lower rig count just a function of kind of your lowering your gas price forecast or is there anything else going on there? This is Ralph.
It's a function of a little bit lower gas price forecast and living within our means and also we're much efficient with our new fit-for-purpose rigs than we thought we would be.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just thinking about the Bakken as those volumes come up.
How should we think about your I guess your takeaway there? What kind of realized prices we should expect maybe discount to WTI or what kind of realizations there? We have planned for approximately about a $10 discount and what we're actually seeing is less than that and the last few months is more in the $5 range but we continue to plan about $10 -- $9.80 I think is what's in the actual data book.
And we are at this point through rail through pipe through trucking we are keeping up with our production.
And we think we have sufficient capacity to continue with our build up of volumes.
Okay that's great.
And then last one for me.
Kind of really to Jason's point was just -- do you anticipate making any incremental debt pay downs now that you're not doing the IPO at the WMB level? Or are you just -- you're comfortable with the debt balances that you have staying there at Hold Co.? Id just be curious about that.
And where do ratings agencies come out as well? We're continuing to look at potential debt pay down with proceeds from the notes offering that would be transferred up from Williams.
And we're in regular communication with agencies regarding our plans and again we expect to maintain our investment-grade ratings.
And we'll go next to Carl Kirst from BMO Capital Markets.
Actually maybe the first question just for Ralph.
There was a mention perhaps of cost pressure going on in the Bakken and that sort of your oil service relationships are helping to hold the line.
But I was wondering if you could give us any additional color there.
Well we've established a relationship with Halliburton for our stimulation services dedicated to us.
Also for our directional services we've also contracted for a whole new fleet of rigs fit-for-purpose rigs.
And we've contracted for a rig moving company so we've taken a lot of the model we had in the Piceance and applied it up there.
So while there are cost pressures since we were so new to basin we feel we've really started to overcome a lot of those and as that model kicks in we'll continue to drive our costs down.
So there is a lot pressure up there no doubt.
But we feel with our relationships with our vendors and our alliances with them we'll be in good shape.
Is there anyway to quantify that as far as what your expectation is on cost pressure if you will maybe 2012 just over today in that region? I think our data book -- basically we're talking about $9.5 million wells.
We initially planned on those to be less than that.
Some people were talking about their well costs are over $10 million $11 million and we don't think we'll see that.
So I guess -- and we'll be able to hold -- we think we'll be able to hold flat at the $9.5 million is where we are now and we hope to -- we'd like to see that driven down but we're not sure yet.
But we've been able to reach the $9.5 million.
We've already got a couple of new rigs up there.
We also have the alliance with our stimulation services.
Great.
And then just a question if I could on Midstream Canada.
Kind of continuing to get our arms around it.
I know this is kind of a smaller piece of the business but one thing we noticed that excluding depreciation the operating cost had a bit of a spike.
And again this is small part of the business but I didn't know if there was any additional color to be had there.
Yes we did have more planned maintenance both in the North and down at Redwater.
So I think it was around $10 million of additional maintenance capital that we had in the quarter.
So that's probably accounting for what you're seeing.
And then last question and Alan you knew it was coming so just to go ahead and ask it.
With respect to the Kinder-El Paso M&amp;A the things we've seen in other company filings.
Is there any additional commentary to add to the whole Southern Union situation or should we just kind of take prior comments as is? Well I'll clarify but they're not going to be different than prior comments.
We continue to be very excited about the infrastructure play here as the U.S.
starts to really take advantage of natural gas.
And we think that the infrastructure assets are going to play an important role in that so we continue to be very interested in that and we think we're very well positioned as a company to grow in that space and we'll continue to look aggressively at any opportunity we see out there to do that.
So I think you should expect to see us to be continue to be aggressive in that space.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Craig Shere from Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Just following up a little on Carl's question about the M&amp;A environment.
Perhaps Alan or Don a if you all could take a step back and just talk about the broader competition in the market for assets; and b the potential impact on your near-term capacities now that perhaps you might have give or take maybe $1 billion plus less cash because you may not do the IPO.
Craig this is Alan.
I'd say that lack of IPO proceeds has certainly been something we knew was a possibility during this entire period so we're not at all surprised by that.
And obviously it does make a difference but I don't think it's going to make any strategic difference in terms of what we pursue.
But obviously it is a factor but beyond that we'll continue to look as assets.
I think as Alan has said before we're disciplined in our approach.
Obviously it's a market where there's a lot of competition for assets and where we have unique advantages and we have a lot of such advantages and we'll look to use those.
Inc.</strong> It seems that most are looking at acquisition as being if not immediately accretive on the cash flow basis at least neutral and then accretive very soon thereafter.
From a strategic standpoint in terms of the M&amp;A environment are you all willing to look at things that perhaps in the first year may not help with dividend distributions? Well I think certainly there are assets that would be large growth assets in areas that would fit that profile.
But for the most part those are going to be smaller kind of assets that are emerging assets that we would pursue.
But we certainly will look to those kind of growth assets in basins like the Marcellus where we feel like we've got great opportunities moving forward and we think we can build a great business there and a great franchise there.
So we look at those kind of investments in those areas.
And we'll go next to Holly Stewart from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> First just kind of following up on the M&amp;A.
Sorry to beat a dead horse here.
But we did notice in one of the ETE filings that you were having some conversations to buy some of Southern Union's assets.
Is that door now closed? I wouldn't say that the door is closed but I would certainly say sub [ph] has been clear in terms of their position on that and in the immediate term.
So I think in the immediate term that may be the case but I don't think for the longer term necessarily.
But I would just tell you we continue to be very disciplined on that and we think we know what they're worth we think we're the right buyer for a certain portion of those assets and we'll just see where that falls out ultimately.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then maybe one for Ralph.
Ralph kind of just looking at my previous notes I think you thought that Marcellus would get to 25% of production within the next couple of years.
You had some delays on the infrastructure side and you've tweaked your rig count.
What's kind of a latest thought process there in terms of Marcellus? I think we'll still get to that level in a couple of years.
We feel very confident especially there are -- our results are just starting in Susquehanna because laser's still in the start up phase.
But even with a lower rig count we think we'll be at those levels.
I think we're going to be very pleased with the Susquehanna joining in particular.
And our Westmoreland and Clearfield and Centre Counties are also doing better than we thought.
Research Division</strong> If you had to break rig count out today up in the Marcellus where are those rigs distributed? They're going to be probably -- well we'll get to 4 in Susquehanna it'll be -- it's rising from 2 to 4.
And then the Clearfield -- or the Westmoreland County will have 2 but we may move one down from time to time to the Clearfield and Centre County areas.
So really 4 in the Northeast area and 2 in the Centre part.
And we'll go next to Jusco Yellow [ph] with Tallenger [ph].
It's actually John Kiani [ph].
Can you talk a little bit about your level of comfort or confidence in eventually moving up to investment-grade rating at the Williams Legacy or stub company post the spin with the leverage you see there versus what you would have expected in an IPO scenario? And then second part to that question is with the spin being what the current plan is is there a range or certain area of the growth rate range we should expect for the dividend that's 10% to 15% in the spin scenario based on what balance sheet and leverage you see versus the original IPO plans? I'll start with the latter part of your question.
Again the 10% 15% is our guidance on dividend growth regardless of spin versus IPO.
We don't think that that really moves the needle.
In terms of credit rating targets we're committed to maintain investment-grade ratings.
The actual ratings will obviously be determined by the ratings agencies.
But we think in terms of business risk and the quality of assets as well as the leverage and the like we can conserve ourselves to be in a very strong position.
But obviously the ratings agencies will decide where they come out based on their own views.
But again we're committed to those ratings.
We've seen continuous improvement and we'll see where we go from here.
I appreciate that.
On the dividend growth rate range of 10% to 15% my question was really does the spin put you in a different area of that range than the IPO would have? No.
No it does not.
Okay.
So you feel pretty comfortable with the midpoint in either of the spin or the IPO scenario? Yes we do.
And we'll go next to Kevin Smith from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With laser pipeline starting up is all of your Marcellus shut-in production essentially online now? Or where are we at within that space? No.
This is Ralph.
Only a couple of wells are online and we have a number of other wells that will be coming online as we prepare our facilities and they prepare the start up.
So we actually just are in the process of turning our second well.
So we have I think -- we reported we think we have about 80 million a day of production that will be coming on over the next several weeks to months as the laser goes to full start up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Maybe by year end are you expecting to essentially know or shut-in volumes other than just maybe the normal amounts from joining completion? Yes absolutely.
We think will we all -- it'll be normal during completion like you said.
And we'll take our last question from Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks like Enterprise has secured the commitments for ethane pipeline at the Marcellus.
Maybe Alan if you could talk to how maybe this project would impact the need for blending projects that Williams is contemplating.
And also support for the Atlantic access project.
Yes this is Rory I'll take that.
And our strategy I think as you alluded to in the Marcellus is to actively use blending in the basin particularly with the pipes project that we've got close Atlantic access.
We see that as probably the most cost-effective way to do things but we do have a project I think we've talked about it some at the analyst day our confluence pipeline that we are proposing is a Williams ethane solution.
And that's something that would build a runway to a more complete answer be it some petrochemical crackers up in the Northeast or be it an alliance such as the one that Enterprise proposed itself.
Getting those kind of solutions up there we see generally is a good thing.
If there's a way to unlock value on the ethane commodity for producers out there they're going to be drilling more.
And as they gather and future processor up there that's good to get the drilling going.
So I think any of the solutions up in the Northeast is just a positive from herein.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess based on your volume projections do you think there's room or necessity for 2 or more of these projects actually get completed? For the long haul? Ethane pipelines is that your question? LLC Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Yes.
Well right now I think one is a big first step but probably the pipeline to Sarnia.
I think that MarkWest is working on is probably the first tranche of ethane that gets cleared from the area.
If we get one of these long haul pipes to the Gulf Coast that's probably a bigger tranche of ethane that's cleared.
If you do the math if you look at the Penn State study where they were forecasting I think up to 17.5 Bcf a day in 2020.
Yes you can start doing the math and you probably could get to 2 pipeline projects but I think that's a long ways down the road and probably so far out in the future that that's not much of a concern right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any update I guess in terms of securing commitments for the confluence pipeline? We are talking to a number of producers right now.
As with any new project we don't have any definitive agreements signed.
We are getting a lot of interest.
It's something that I guess I would say generally is being well received producers community out there.
So we'll report on that.
And we did get additional question it comes from Tim Schneider with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
Just a quick question on the -- do you have any well results at all from some of the activities in South America? We haven't done any Vaca Norte [ph] if that's what you're asking.
We're doing our standing drilling in our 3 concessions in Entre Lomas but we do not have -- we have a couple of vertical tests we're going to do in the Vaca Norte [ph] type but there's no other -- they're not done yet so not yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Ralph when will all those tests be done you think? We'll do some in early next year I believe.
But we're actually kind of monitoring the -- since we have all the acreage already we're monitoring the progress of other producers and trying to learn from what they're doing and then we'll enter into our program probably at a later date in a more robust program.
So we have a couple of vertical wells we'll test probably early next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then I think previously guys had talked about kind of the target production rate in the Bakken of sort of 20 000 barrels equivalent a day.
Where do you think you guys are in that sort of ramp up? What was -- in what time frame? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> I think it was 2013 or so.
I think when you guys first made the transaction it was something along those lines but maybe I'm mistaken.
I think that was it.
I think we would -- currently we're slightly behind due to delay with the weather we had and the start up from all that.
But we would expect to gain on that and get close to that level.
I don't know the exact date of that but we feel confident in our production profile going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then just a question on GulfStar you're now with that -- with the tubular belts kind of being sanctioned.
I mean how does that project kind of move forward for you guys? And is there any sort of update on what that will cost and what kind of contribution that could bring to the Midstream business? Yes this is Rory I'll take that question.
Well we had a reimbursement agreement in place with a customer many months before the definitive documents were signed.
So the project is well underway all of the major contracts for fabrication and heavy lift and installation on the pipelines those contracts are all signed and in place.
We're well on our way steel is in the yards things are progressing nicely.
So that total cost I want to say is under $1 billion with the pipeline interconnections.
I think as we noted we are still looking at taking on partner for that.
So that's probably something that we just want to reiterate but I don't know if we got anything else on that.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back to you for any closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well thank you for joining us this morning and appreciate the great questions you voiced and the interest in our company.
And we look forward to telling you about our growth next quarter.
Thank you for joining us.
That concludes our call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Companies Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Travis Campbell Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Welcome to the year-end 2011 call.
As always thanks for your interest in our company.
As you no doubt know we released our results yesterday afternoon after the market closed.
Also yesterday Alan using a few slides had some commentary about the results our new guidance and growth opportunities.
That audio commentary and the slides are available on our website.
So on the website williams.com you should be able to find a number of things that were posted yesterday afternoon.
The earnings presentation with the audio commentary by Alan our normal data book with the usual information we make available each quarter the press release of our results and our analyst package.
As usual because we had the commentary yesterday this morning's call should be fairly brief and we'll get very quickly to your questions.
In a minute Alan will -- Alan Armstrong our President and CEO will make some brief comments after which we'll open the lines for questions.
Be aware as always all of our business unit heads are here and they'll be available to respond to any questions after Alan's remarks.
With me here this morning are Rory Miller who oversees Midstream; and Randy Barnard who heads up our Gas Pipelines; as well as Don Chappel our CFO.
On yesterday's presentation and in the data book there is a disclaimer on forward-looking statements.
This is important and integral to our company.
You should review those.
Also there are non-GAAP numbers included in the various presentations.
These have been reconciled back to generally accepted accounting principles.
Those reconciliation schedules are also available.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Great.
Good morning and thank you Travis.
First of all we certainly had very noisy result from the EPS as we spun off WPX.
But really boiling it down and looking at the continuing operations you'll see that our adjusted segment profit versus our third quarter guidance came in right in between our midpoint and high that we've given you for a guidance there so our continuing operation is performing very well in the fourth quarter and throughout 2011.
As we look forward a tremendous amount of new growth and you'll see that built in to both our guidance and capital as well as our opportunity pipeline that we continue to project.
And one of the -- probably the biggest area of change that we had in that opportunity pipeline was a large number of increases coming from our gas pipe segment as major expansions particularly on Transco and a little -- to a lesser degree on Gulfstream really start to present themselves as the industry and power generation industry look to take advantage of continued low natural gas prices.
So very excited about the way we're positioned in that space and our opportunity pipeline certainly demonstrates that.
On guidance you'll note a raise in guidance for both '12 and '13 and this is an improvement in our adjusted segment profit plus DD&amp;A of about $40 million and 12 at midpoint and $120 million in 2013.
In '12 the drivers there are slightly higher NGL margins the addition of Laser to our guidance as well as some offsetting impact of lower volumes in some of our areas due to lower gas prices and our expectation of slow drilling in some of those areas.
So overall an improvement in '12 though.
In '13 you'll see even lower NGL margins than we had previously in our guidance there and I'll speak to that in just a moment.
But those were -- are offset in '13 by higher ethylene margins in our MC&amp;O areas so a nice raise there for '13.
And I think it really shows the strength of our portfolio and a big part of that strength is the growth in fee-based revenues that we continue to see in '11 we're going to see in '12 and we certainly are going to start to see present itself in '13.
Speaking of commodity prices and our changes there what you'll note there is very high crude-to-gas ratios reflecting kind of what we're seeing in the current market out there.
We've got gas now at $3 for '12 and $3.75 for '13 and we've got crude holding steady at $100.
However despite that very high crude-to-gas ratio much as we usually see when we see that ratio blow way out we do not see the NGL components keeping pace with that big separation.
And so you'll see a very low NGL-to-crude ratio in our forecast of about 45%.
And that has us have our NGL margin declining from '11 through '13 of just a little over 15%.
But as I said earlier we are projecting our ethylene business particularly in '13 starting to take advantage of those lower ethylene prices.
So -- but despite what I would say is a very conservative outlook in the NGL margin space we continue to show very strong cash flow growth and very bullish about the way our continued cash flows from both WPZ and our Midstream Canada and olefin segment is going.
And I would just remind you as you're looking out there amongst our peers making sure you're looking at it on an apples-to-apples basis we feel like we've got a pretty good insight into the commodity prices.
But I think what's impressive is we've got continued nice strength in our growing cash flow despite a 15% decline in our NGL margin and I think a lot of our peers would be hard-pressed to show that kind of resilience and strength in a lower price environment.
So with that we will turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go first to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions.
It looked like the Geismar olefin volumes were perhaps down a little sequentially in the fourth quarter.
And I was wondering if you could discuss if that's accurate what's driving that and prospects for the volume growth ahead of the expansion of the facility? And also where you see potential weakness geographically in terms of gas processing and Midstream as producers pull back in this environment? I'll take that.
This is Rory.
We had a 10-day shutdown at Geismar.
We had a problem with a missed pad there and that accounted for the lower volumes there in the fourth quarter.
So that's something obviously that we're not planning for in '12 so you shouldn't put too much stock in that.
Prospects for volume growth ahead of the expansion of the facility I expect -- or I suspect that you're talking about the major 600-pound expansion that we've announced.
We do have some furnace upgrades that are ongoing.
Those are being done one at a time.
And so we will see some very slow volume growth across the period as those furnaces are reconfigured and brought back up.
But the big jump will come in '13 when we bring up the major expansion.
Inc.</strong> Will we see some downtime ahead of that to prepare for that? Yes we have a turnaround planned and our intent is that we would coordinate the activity as much as possible to limit any additional downtime associated with the expansion.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And any slowdown geographically you could discuss in the Midstream area? Yes yes.
Good question there.
I think any of the slowdowns that we're seeing I think we already have priced into our guidance.
I'll just note that upfront.
Out West we're not seeing massive pullbacks of drilling but we are seeing some moderation in the drilling out there.
We've got one rig that we've just heard of.
It's being laid down in Wamsutter but everything else is still moving ahead.
Generally speaking say from quarter-to-quarter we're seeing a little softening in the drilling.
But I guess that -- one point I would make is if we do see fewer well connects for the year we'll also see less well connect costs.
So we think at least from a PZ standpoint any slowdowns near-term ought to be DCF-neutral to PZ and of course that impacts WMB directly as we get those distributions.
And we'll go next to Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could talk about maybe the cash flow contribution from the Laser acquisition and how you anticipate the cash flow to ramp-up over time.
Yes the Laser system acquisition which I'm sure you've heard has closed is being looked at as what I call an integrated system.
I think we're in fact we're going to be disallowed from using that name shortly.
But one of the big values from Laser is it's coming into our complex up there to be operated and run as part of an integrated holistic system.
And so we'll be referring to that area up there as the Susquehanna Supply Hub.
The project was I would say was -- the purchase price was more like what you would typically see on acquisitions in the Midstream space.
We're -- if you're looking at guidance just for PZ that's probably going to contribute about $25 million of segment operating profit in '12 and about $50 million in '13.
That's the net impact.
There's a little other noise in there but we see that as being a nice driver overall in terms of improving segment profit and a big help just in general to that overall complex in the area.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And I guess turning to the Constitution JV with Cabot if you can maybe talk about the potential investment in terms of dollar costs and the expected returns for that project? This is Randy Barnard.
I'll be happy to answer that question.
Sorry for my voice it got a little froggy this morning.
The stated investment for that project is around $700 million actually $701 million eight-eights if we build the 24-inch version.
We've got an open season on that project.
Now that may end up leading to upsizing on that project to 30-inch that would raise the capital by another $22 million or so.
The joint venture between us and Cabot us being Williams Partners would be 75% owners.
So that would be our share of the overall capital depending upon which version the 24 or 30 inches built.
Does that answer your questions? LLC Research Division</strong> And then maybe just the expected initial returns on that project? Well we haven't negotiated rates for the project.
But they would be -- I would just say consistent with regulated pipeline returns.
And we will go next to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the pace of the dividend raise here.
It sounds like with what you're going to hit for 2012 you're going to be above your -- the midpoint of your range the 12.5%.
I'm just wondering if you're thinking you can hit the high end of the range maybe now that you're adding more of the fee-based earnings from WPZ with Laser and some of the new pipeline projects or are you still thinking the midpoint is a reasonable way to think about the raise? Ted this is Don Chappel.
Again we'll stand with the range we've put out but certainly our bias is to target the high end of the range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the mix shift at -- I'm assuming PZ is going to be moving more fee-based here given that you are fairly call it conservative on your NGL margin.
Does that change your thinking at all? Right.
I think we look at the whole portfolio and clearly the fact that WPZ is building more and more fee-based business gives us more confidence in support for distribution increases.
So I think we're on the same page there in terms of -- we think the outlook is very strong.
I think as Alan said the business prospects have never been better.
So we're adding a lot of great assets.
I think Rory spoke to Laser and that's kind of the early innings for Laser.
We think that '14 and beyond are even brighter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just sticking with dividends and I realize it's a little early to think about it but we do have potential change in tax law here coming at the end of the year.
I mean how does that inform your thoughts about capital allocation whether it's dividends buybacks things like that? Well I think it's way too soon to think that the tax law is can be changed.
We certainly are mindful of the possibilities.
We certainly are educating those that make those decisions but I don't know that we want to speculate on what we might see or what we might do.
But again I think at this point we think it's pretty low probability that anything happens.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- you mentioned a little bit about expecting stronger ethylene margins.
Can you just talk about what you're expecting for '12 and '13 there? And then is it a function more of lower ethane prices or is it just increases in ethylene prices or maybe a combination? Well I would say a couple things here.
One most of the driver in '13 from our previous guidance is lower ethane prices.
And so that's a big chunk of that.
For '12 I would just say the current experience that we have out there is that because there are outages and that's driving these -- on the cracker side that is driving some of the lower ethane prices.
But it's also increasing ethylene prices because those crackers are out as well.
So we're on both sides of that coin.
And -- but I would say generally most of the driver that we're seeing in a longer-term despite this kind of current period that we're in with high ethylene is really driven by lower ethane prices.
And we will go next to Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think my question is really kind of a follow-up to Ted's.
It looked as though the NGL pricing that you have in the February slide deck has declined over 20% at the midpoint from the November NGL pricing.
And at the same time the bump up for segment margin in MC&amp;O in 2013 seems relatively conservative.
Is there any of the I guess ethane price decline that -- or anything about the contractual structures that you guys might have with ethane suppliers that would prevent you from realizing all of the favorable impact of a decline in spot ethane prices? I'll take that.
This is Rory.
If you look at '13 and focus on that we're down about $0.11 on our ethane assumption and up about $0.04 on our ethylene which is driving about a $50 million increase in segment profit there.
That's kind of the long and short of it.
I don't know if that's helpful but we...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then there's nothing in terms of contractual structures.
It's reasonable to think about segment margin in the olefins business as really being determined by just -- by spot prices? Yes I think the good news there is if -- and I'm not going to get into a lot of contractual detail on our offtake agreements but right now we have a pretty high percentage of our agreements that do have collars on them and so we're not getting full exposure to that pure spot market margin which today is around EUR 40 -- maybe even a little more than GBP 0.40.
Most of those are rolling off and so we'll have contracting flexibility in '13.
And we'll -- we haven't made those decisions yet exactly how we're going to play that but at the end of the day you want exposure to that margin and you want certainty of takes.
So that's kind of the trade-off there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess just as far as why the 2012 MC&amp;O margin didn't move that's more associated with the collars that you referred to? That's definitely part of it.
We've got a much smaller percentage of our offtake that's purely exposed to that at spot margin without some kind of limiting collar.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and just one question on the Midstream side of things.
As you think about the current low ethane price environment when you think about some of your customers in the Piceance specifically but in let's say kind of a variety of Rockies plays in the Green River and the Piceance where maybe you see anywhere from 1 to 3 gallons per Mcf on average so not extremely liquids rich do you think of those rigs as being in danger of being laid down as you think of perhaps ethane prices on the Gulf Coast not being high enough to justify shipping ethane all the way from the Rockies down to the Gulf Coast and incurring those transportation costs versus just selling that the BTU locally as methane? Yes well it certainly doesn't help.
The Rockies barrel does have a fairly decent percentage of ethane in it.
But I think what I would say generally speaking the lack or the slowdown in drilling that we expect to see we've already got in our guidance.
I think that impact has already been accounted for.
I think the uptick or the strengthening that we're likely to see for ethane in the second half of '12 will help.
And -- but I think generally speaking we've got that impact and that effect already dialed into our guidance.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you don't think that will affect utilization on the new capacity on the Parachute Plant coming online in 2014 or kind of similar deep-cut processing facilities? I think that in the Piceance basin in general there will be some drilling slowdown there.
I think WPX in particular has already made some comments about that.
The good news I think there is we do have some Mancos acreage under contract out there and that's kind of where I see a lot of the backfill coming and some of the interest building out there.
There's some rich gas windows and possibly even some crude oil Windows in the Mancos and Piceance.
And if we do have any slowdown here in the front-end I think we've got a chance to backfill that eventually with Mancos rich gas production.
And we will go next to Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
A lot of my questions had been hit maybe just a few others if I could though.
And maybe Randy on the pipeline side going back to Constitution just noting that it's -- it looked like it was sort of an in-service date for early 2015 and we think a 120-mile pipe that could kind of be done in 1 season.
Is there a reason why that's taking that long or am I not perhaps thinking about it correctly? Well the timing generally speaking is the whole permitting process and FERC certification process.
This would be a interstate-regulated pipeline.
So we have to go through all the prefiling public meetings all the environmental studies all the FERC certification and that generally chews up 1.5 years to even sometimes 2.
So the actual in-service state that we're quoting on the project is fairly aggressive believe it or not from the perspective of the development cycle typical development cycle of regulated pipe.
Great.
So it's really all the regulatory issues not necessarily waiting for more contracts for instance? No sir.
No sir.
The Cabot commitment to that pipeline is sufficient to anchor the construction of that pipe.
No that's great.
And then just a question maybe on the further investment potential in Transco on the gas-fired power generation and I guess Alan even mentioned to a lesser extent the Gulfstream.
So as we think about that and you guys have your wedge pie charts over the next 5 years do you see that sort of developing as far as perhaps leading to announced projects something that might be nearer term of the first half of that 5-year outlook or is it more in the back half? Is there any sense of color on that? Maybe I would cop out by saying about the middle half.
Transco in particular is pursuing over 20 projects right now that are largely driven by power gen growth.
And it's up and down the Eastern Seaboard.
There is a slide in our packets that I'm trying to find so I can direct you to it.
Slide 57 in the data book we've just touted some future potential expansions on Transco largely -- either along the Leidy Line or in the Southeastern U.S.
and in Gulfstream as well.
All those is because of our view of potential power gen growth.
And there's something -- and some of it would be actual growth and some of it is driven by coal plant conversions.
There's over 30 gigawatts within -- of potential either conversion or new power build within 50 miles of Transco.
And we could see -- we are pursuing about the equivalent of 3 Bcf a day or about $2.5 billion of investment associated with -- or close to Transco right now.
Now I'm not saying we're going to get all that.
We're in competition for that but it's a pretty positive outlook for Transco.
That's great.
And then maybe one final question if I could either for Rory or maybe for Alan.
And this kind of turns up to Canada and just thinking about Williams 10 years ago.
You guys had a pretty large Midstream presence in Canada.
You obviously have a growing oil sands franchise right now.
There's been a lot of shifting landscape up in Canada claims to BP assets Pembina Provident et cetera.
And I guess my question is do you guys with all of the liquids-rich structures that they're finding out there do you guys see an opportunity beyond the oil sands franchise or is it more just to kind of develop that key area? Yes that is a great question.
I would tell you that first of all first and foremost we are going to make sure that we monetize -- we take full advantage of the great competitive advantage that we have in the oil sands area first.
And I would tell you there's a tremendous amount of opportunity to not only capture that existing business but to grow that business further and be able to optimize the value of those streams even better.
Our BB splitter that we did in August '10 is a great example of that where we're further optimizing the value of those streams.
I would tell you that from our vantage point that a lot of the oil sands operations are fairly immature in terms of optimizing the value of those resources.
And so things like hydrogen that is in big demand out there and will continue to be in big demand.
Helium transfer we think there's a lot of services up there that we have a lot of room to grow that business in.
And so I would tell you we're going to seek out those areas where we have the largest competitive advantages and provide us the highest return.
And I would say some of those more competitive areas are going to have a hard time competing with those opportunities.
Having said that we certainly keep our eyes open if we think that some of those projects could demand a return that's competing with our other opportunities that we have both in the U.S.
and in Canada.
[Operator Instructions] And we will go next to Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> For you one on the gathering side there's lots of moving pieces with the acquisition of Laser and the Springville lateral coming online and some declining volumes elsewhere.
Do you guys have guidance for us on percent change in volumes in that segment in 2012 and 2013? Hang on just a second.
Let me check on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then while you're looking do you want me to ask the next one or do you want me to wait? Yes you can go ahead and ask another question...
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other is on NGL market.
You guys lowered your NGLs as a percentage of crude.
What was -- we all know that prices are low right now.
So is it a function of what you're seeing today or is there something else that's changed in the market that causes you -- caused you to change your guidance? Yes I'll take that second question Becca while.
Rory's gathering his info for your first one.
I would say that certainly the current environment has got us a little bearish on that.
But I'll also tell you that if you just look historically if you look at the gas-to-crude ratio or crude-to-gas ratio and you realize how high that is relative to historical there is an inverse relationship generally that occurs between high crude-to-gas ratio and the NGL-to-crude number.
And so even though it seems unprecedented low number on that NGL to crude we also are unprecedented crude-to-gas ratios as well.
And so if you look at the overall margin I'm not sure that it's that far out of line.
And so -- but certainly the current environment the very warm winter that we're having certainly is impacting propane storage.
And propane is just as exposed to that as natural gas is.
And so that could be a hangover certainly in '12.
I think '13 it's a little early to call frankly and we may be a little bit conservative in '13.
But I think as we look for both ethane for the balance of this first half of '12 and propane for the balance of the year that we could see some pressure there just because of what we're seeing in storage volumes on propane right now.
Becca just getting back to your question and you stated it real accurately that there are a lot of moving parts up there on Laser and Springville and the way that they're priced.
It gets a little confusing too.
But I think that the thing that we have given some guidance on is kind of where our total capacity is going with Springville.
Right now we're in the 300 range.
We'll be going up to 625 650 over the course of the year on Springville.
Laser is going to be up around 1.3 billion a day of capacity.
And then Randy talked about the $500 million in a Constitution project.
And we also have about $500 million a day of inter-connectivity with Tennessee Gas Pipeline in that field.
So that kind of adds up to that 3 Bcf a day of takeaway capacity.
And maybe what you ought to keep in mind is that that is one of the limitations out there.
So producers are out scrambling to get takeaway capacity and then drilling to fill that evidenced by Cabot's willingness to take the full 500 on the Constitution project.
So it does take time to build.
I think we exited the year just say on our Springville assets for instance and '11 at around $600 million a day.
That will be going up by well over 50% by the end of '13.
And the Laser -- the whole Laser story is one that's unfolding.
It obviously just started up.
So volumes are building there.
The earning potentials in '12 and '13 are just a shadow of what they're going to be.
So we've got a real strong producer group right now behind those assets and they're going to be ramping up quickly.
Cabot I think has been pretty transparent about their plans.
This is one of WPX's key areas and they've been having good results out there.
And the Carrizo volumes are backed by a drilling carry from reliance.
So we're very excited about the opportunities up there and I think you'll see these producers working hard to take advantage of that takeaway capacity.
Research Division</strong> But no specific number for 2012 or 2013 on percent changes? No we haven't offered that up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more data point on the 1.3 Bcf a day capacity on Laser is -- where is it now? Just so we can get some kind of sense of how we can ramp it up.
Yes it's a little over 100 million a day now and that's a pretty dynamic number.
But we're obviously in the early days of starting that out.
Capacity of that.
Did you say the capacity of that? Research Division</strong> No no the current throughput.
I think you answered it what I was looking for.
And at this time there are no further questions.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well thank you very much.
As we said we think we continue to have rock solid growth and it's certainly not dependent on a rising commodity price environment.
And if we get some of that and we start to see that at the back half of '12 or '13 we certainly will improve beyond these numbers considerably that we've got it guided for.
We're very comfortable with what we have out there and we think this is great growth in both the cash flows and the dividend that we can continue to produce.
And so we're excited about what we have before us and it's going to be a matter of prioritizing all of these great opportunities to continue to make sure we're executing as well as we have to date.
So thank you again for joining us and we look forward to talking to you in the future.
And this concludes today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Companies First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Corina.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams.
As you know yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com.
These items include the press release of our results with related schedules and our analyst package a presentation on our results and growth opportunities with related audio commentary from our President and CEO Alan Armstrong and an update to our quarterly data book which contain the detailed information regarding various aspects of the business.
This morning Alan will make a few brief comments and then we will open the discussion up for Q&amp;A.
Rory Miller is here from our midstream business and Randy Barnard is here from our gas pipeline business.
Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in the quarterly data book you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that have been reconciled back to generally accepted accounting principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Great.
Thank you John and good morning to everybody.
Thanks for joining us.
I know it's a busy day for earnings releases.
Certainly you've have all seen the strong financial results for the quarter so this morning I hope to provide just some color around the business fundamentals that provide great transparency around the projects and the business growth that it supports our confidence in a sustainable high-growth dividend for WMB.
First of all our quarter came out to about 8% above consensus due to I believe a combination of mild weather and continued growth in revenues from our recent capital investments that continue to ramp up.
And then as well the high ethylene margins in the first quarter as well.
I think we're higher than most people expected.
So let me hit on just a few of these things real quickly.
First of all the mild weather how that impacted us -- drove lower natural gas prices which of course improved our NGL margins despite some lower NGL prices.
The very low natural gas prices actually helped prop up our key pulse margins.
Secondly and probably less obvious is the fact that we had great operating performance during the quarter.
Because normally in the first quarter we have a lot of freeze offs of production from our producers and so forth.
So in this period we did not experience very much of that at all.
So we've enjoyed the mild weather in those 2 ways.
Secondly as I mentioned the projects that we continue to bring online continue to grow our fee-based revenues and actually in the midstream the fee-based revenues were up 19%.
And really this was due to a combination of issues.
First of all as I mentioned projects that we've been investing in over the last couple of years continue to ramp up namely the Perdido Norte volumes continuing to come up the Echo Springs -- fourth train at Echo Springs continue to enjoy more and more volumes from the Piceance.
And the Northeast Pennsylvania assets were up and certainly the volumes there grew actually by a little over 160%.
As well at our Markham our new expansion at Markham that also experienced new fee-based volumes from the Eagle Ford as well.
So really across the board a lot of the investments we've been making for the last several years really starting to pan out in terms of driving our fee-based revenues particularly within midstream.
These 2 factors also drove strong operating statistics the mild weather and the new projects online.
Our NGL production was actually up 18%.
Our gathering volumes were up 19%.
Of course most of our capital expansion in our processing business has been fee-based so our equity gallons were only up 7% and I think probably the main driver for that is the fact that our again as I mentioned our plants were up and running more during the first quarter than we saw in the first quarter of '11.
Certainly the lower -- sorry the higher ethylene prices were driven by the lower ethane prices during the quarter.
And we continue to see strong demand for ethylene in that area particularly there was a lot of outages and it drove the ethylene demand even higher in the area.
So pretty excited about the way that business is helping support our overall combined MD revenue.
And then certainly our gas pipe growth continues on a steady pace as well we actually saw a 6% growth in our fee-based revenues in our gas pipes areas as well.
And so while we're certainly excited to see this continued strong growth in our fee-based revenues we are not surprised because our project development and project execution continues to be the underpinning for our confidence in dividend growth of 20% in 2013 and 2014 on the back of the WPZ distribution growth of 8 -- 10% and of course continued growth in our MC&amp;O area as well even though we are putting a very high coverage ratio as we explained to you on that.
Certainly the risk-reducing investment we intend to make in our ethylene-cracking capacity continues to support that dividend growth as well.
Looking ahead and even beyond the guidance period you can see many of our larger projects don't even start up until 2014.
And many of these investments are just reaching stride in 2015 like the recent Caiman acquisition our Canada expansion that's continuing and certainly Northeast Pennsylvania with acquisitions like Laser really continuing to grow very steadily beyond the guidance period.
And as we mentioned several times before we continue to be very encouraged by the amount of demand for services on Transco as the market continues to look -- to take advantage of low priced natural gas.
So the opportunities really do just keep coming at us and we are fortunate to have a great operating and project management talent on board.
And we certainly are mobilizing a lot of that talent from all over our system right now help deliver these great opportunities safety on-time and on budget and we're proud of the track record we continue to build in that regard.
So taking full advantage of North America's abundant natural gas and gas liquids resources it is certainly going to take a tremendous amount of infrastructure as demand for these great resources grows and continues to drive volumes on our infrastructure.
And we certainly think Williams is the best positioned company to deliver the critical infrastructure required to take advantage of these great resources.
And I'll also remind you our Analyst Day webcast is May 22 and we look forward to being able to describe in some more detail all of the great projects that continue to drive our confidence and our growth.
And with that I'll turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Alan I think when we last spoke in March I guess with the Caiman acquisition there was hopes may be that by this time we might have a little bit more color on the follow-on Utica joint venture.
Is there anything additional you can share at this point? No.
We still are under a confidentiality agreement there and so not ready to be able to disclose that in full detail.
We're certainly expecting for our May 22 Analyst Day to lay that out in some more detail.
So that would be our hope for this point.
I really don't see any reason that won't occur at this point.
It's just a matter of finalizing some things and dotting the Is and crossing the Ts on that.
Okay appreciate that.
And just a lot of different projects kind of moving on moving around.
One of the latest is the Atlantic Access project of course kind of getting reengineered as I understand it with respect to kind of what your customers came back to you on.
It looks like a lot more paths are being I guess viewed access.
But I wasn't sure with the Southern Pennsylvania sort of a new pipeline.
It looked like it was being downsized.
And I guess at the end I'm trying to kind of figure out is this a proposal that from a capital dollar standpoint? From investment standpoint is this something that has is getting larger is getting smaller? Im just trying to better understand the moving parts.
Yes.
I'll take that and Frank Ferazzi is on the line and if there's any detailed required data into that Frank you can do so.
I would just say that probably one of the biggest changes about the project is the fact that by doing some of it along the Leidy Line it allows us to do it in a scalable fashion.
And so growing into the increments that the market is requiring.
And so that's probably one of the big changes.
In terms of the southern-most route it is really a matter of delaying that.
But certainly what we are trying to do here is add flexibility.
Having said all that right now the project as laid out is larger both in terms of capital dollars and volumes than we originally expected.
And primarily that is driven by demand along the Leidy route that came in as a result of the open season.
As you recall we opened that leg up to the Northwest that leg up to butler to the Northwest and saw some very strong demand on that leg.
So we had to decide how we best serve that load in Northwest PA particularly volumes coming down from Northern PA as well.
Great that's perfect color.
And then just one final question if I could and this actually kind of goes to the equity volumes if you will at midstream PC [ph].
Notwithstanding sort of first quarter being -- over first quarter of last year wells freeze-offs and the like we were down slightly from the fourth quarter.
Between the fourth quarter and the first quarter is this sort of your kind of expected run rate for the equity volumes as pretty much everything else kind of comes in on the fee basis? This is Rory Miller I'll take that question.
I think the levels that we're at now are pretty indicative of where we're going to be as we contract for new business.
Most of it's going to be fee-based consistent with our strategy.
And frankly consistent with what most of the producers want.
They need to see those margins back at the wellhead in order to keep their drilling rigs moving in the richer areas.
So I think we'll be able to maintain that for the foreseeable future.
At some point it probably starts to fall off.
But I think that's -- that 300 million gallon per quarter range is a pretty good spot to be thinking about our equity launch.
And next we'll go with Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You and the Marcellus talked about gathering getting up to gathering about 5 bcf a day by 2015.
How much are you gathering now? And can you talk about just any what needs to happen to get to that 5? And sort of any concerns you have over the big gas environment over the next couple of years impeding that? Yes.
This is Rory again I'll take that.
Just doing some quick math there.
We'll probably turn volumes -- bcf 1.1 bcf a day of current volumes gathered.
And I'm including the Caiman asset in those numbers which actually is closed tomorrow.
So I maybe gun jumping just a little bit there but just so you have some context to that question.
The path to go from there to the 5 bcf a day number that we've shown in all of our materials it's really around construction and that is not a straight-line event.
I think we've been pretty candid about some of the challenges but I think we've got the right team in place.
We've got the broad resources across the organizations drawn and we continue to refine that construction effort up there.
But that's kind of the critical path.
The producers have a lot of the same challenges.
So a lot if it is just working through the process and refining the process that would get wells drilled and connected up in the Northeast and it gets better every month.
So I'm very optimistic about the progress that we're making.
But that's probably one of the bigger challenges.
And of course we're actively working with the regulators and the local governmental authorities that set the rules out there.
And I think there's a pretty good dialogue going now and it's getting better.
So it's moving in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys are moving much more towards fee revenues now.
Are you seeing at all pushback from producers in well or gas or ethane price environment to not be as fee-based and want you guys to take on more risk? Or is that just not the case right now? We have not seen that.
That's probably a short answer.
But I don't know that it requires much elaboration either.
The -- most of the producers when they do get a chance to recontract are interested in getting that exposure to their -- the NGLs and their gas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question you have a mandatory Transco rate case coming in March of '13.
Is there -- can you elaborate at all? Is there anything we should expect out of that materially? Frank you want to take that please? Yes we do have as part of the settlement of our last rate case we do have a filing requirement.
Filing will actually be made in September of this year and we will file an increase.
And so the commission will suspend it for 5 months until the rates will become effective March of 2013 and we're expecting a rate increase.
It's difficult at this point to quantify exactly how much it's going to be.
The next we'll go to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
Alan in your recorded remarks online you mentioned that the long-term growth was of course excluding any incremental M&amp;A.
And kind of it struck me with Laser having just closed in February and Caiman closing out tomorrow that for you to say that in your prepared remarks well it sounded like there is more appetite despite all this activity.
And I just thought you might want to flesh that out a little bit.
Well I certainly didn't intend to comment on anything other than the fact that our previous guidance hadn't included those acquisitions and certainly this hadn't.
So I would tell you for right now Id say we certainly feel like we have our plate full in terms of things that are back-end loaded cash flows much like Caiman and Laser are.
So I wouldn't read too much into that other than we'd be making it very clear that all that is in there is identified projects sort of few relatively small acquisitions that are just kind of bolt-on assets here and there and there.
But for the most part it's all just organic growth and that was really the purpose of my comment there.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
And as a follow up I don't know if Alan you want to respond or Don.
But with the Caiman acquisition announcement and the increase in distribution guidance it became clear that the growth in fee-based businesses is so transparent for a number of years and so great.
That for an interim period to have some of your distributions based in part of commodity-sensitive operations that are doing well isn't such a big deal since the fee-based stuff is going to catch up to it not too long anyhow.
Given the fact that you're taking out so strong results particularly on the olefins' side what's the appetite? Because like 6 months ago you all would have been shy about making distributions contingent on fee-based businesses.
But given the backdrop of all the growth in the fee-based stuff what's the appetite for juicing the distributions a little more if commodities continue to be favorable like that? Craig this is Don.
I think we've put out what we think is still industry-leading distribution growth at WPZ.
We don't think that there's a great incentive to do more than that.
And so again to the extent that we could put out something that we think is a sustainable higher rate of growth we'll do that.
But we're not inclined just to call -- jump the distributions on the back of high commodity prices.
But we think we're building a portfolio business that will enable us to have industry-leading growth in WPZ distributions over a number of years.
And as has been pointed out in the call we think we got great visibility to it.
I think another way to kind of come out the M&amp;A comment was really we don't need any additional acquisitions in order to drive this distribution growth or the dividend growth at Williams.
So this is now all within our control.
And I think we're delighted by that.
And we're just taking excess cash flow and plowing it right back into building this fee-based business out.
Moving on to Brad Olsen with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions about the MC&amp;O business.
The olefins that are -- the MC&amp;O business as a whole posted a really strong kind of margin expansion quarter-over-quarter as you alluded to a result of the ethylene and ethane spread.
I think last quarter you mentioned that there are some legacy contracts that might limit for the next 12 months or at least for the remainder of the year your ability to capture the full ethane ethylene spread.
And do you have any comments on what that margin expansion or the quarter-over-quarter growth might have looked like if you didn't have those contracts in place? This is Rory.
I don't have that assessment that you just asked for.
But I can give you a little color on the contracting situation just so you maybe have a flavor of what's coming.
If you look at say where we're at in February about 30% of our offtake portfolio had kind of unfettered exposure to the spot market.
The majority of the rest was under collared deals.
So meaning it had some exposure but the exposure was limited.
We page ahead to the end of the year in December that exposure to the -- just the pure spot market is around 55%.
And then by February of 2013 that exposure goes up to 84%.
So if we had a -- let's just say a steady-state situation around the crack spread we'd expect to see that open up significantly over that period.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And now moving to Midstream Canada you guys are working on that the ethane extraction project to deliver up to 10 000 barrels a day to NOVA in Alberta.
And I was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit about how -- I know there's not really a direct linkage between the Canadian ethane environment and the U.S.
ethane environment.
But does the drop in ethane prices in the U.S.
affect the economics of that project at all? No I don't think so.
That project made a lot of sense but the Canadian government also provided some subsidies that helped on that project significantly.
The Boreal pipeline is I think set to start being filled in May 28 and then the ethane project I think is set to be online second quarter of 2013.
And there is a floor in that contract that we think gives us the kind of earnings and performance that we're looking for in spite of where the commodities go.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last question we've seen some kind of dry gas Marcellus rig count declines recently.
Do you guys have any comments on that? And also as we've seen kind of weak propane demand up in the Northeast this quarter do you see any change just kind of preliminary change in producer attitudes as propane is a large share of kind of the liquid yield up in the Marcellus on how they think about operating rigs in that area? Let me take that first question.
First about the -- what we're seeing in the dry gas and maybe some falling rig counts in the Marcellus.
I just would say our approach has been start with the geology first.
And we've tried to target the places that we think are the sweet spots in the Marcellus.
It's not all created equal.
But during the best parts of the Marcellus in the dry gas windows you're probably in the best place to drill United States of America for dry gas.
So Susquehanna County probably being the #1 dry gas location.
We have seen a rig or 2 come out of that area that we have access to with our system.
But what the producers have been doing has been replacing less efficient rigs with more efficient rigs.
And so it hasn't had any impact at all on our volume forecast.
So the situation is very robust up there for us and we're very confident that that system is going to perform.
In fact we've got the majority of that 3 bcf a day of capacity takeaway capacity that we highlighted in the slides.
We got the majority that's contracted for.
There's a little bit of available capacity hydraulically available and we're in the process of sorting through the demand for that right now.
We have more demand for it than we have space.
So situation is still very robust very very positive.
There are places in the Marcellus where it's fringier and those are not areas that we're in right now.
But those fills will probably see less activity than the better areas.
In terms of the propane demand propane is a tougher commodity to predict probably right now just with the increases in supply and maybe a changing demand profile and exports and probably going to be a big part of that story going forward.
We have not seen any changes in drilling in the rich gas areas particularly in the Northeast.
All we've seen is more and more interest.
So certainly if propane is down that is going to hurt a bit.
But I still think it's not going to fall to the point where it greatly diminishes the drilling economics in those rich gas areas.
They're some of the best in the nation right now.
And we'll now go to Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You have I guess in one of the slides a budgeted amount or percentage of projects potentially for the Utica.
In terms of those types of investments are you looking at gathering projects? Processing projects? And maybe if you could give a sense in terms of the potential timing of those investments? Yes.
Sharon we can't really give you much in terms of timing on that.
I would just tell you that the assets that we acquired or will be acquiring when we close from Caiman those are well positioned to kind of be a first mover to attract volumes in from that.
So initially probably that infrastructure would likely be more gathering that would be bringing some of those volumes over.
But certainly we'd be looking to take advantage of that first mover position we have and ultimately build the kind of infrastructure that would serve that area long term because the infrastructure that we're building for Caiman really is to the large very large community we already spoken for from volumes just from that area.
So we would have to be building further processing capacity for the Utica in the long term.
But initially it would just be a matter of being able to gather that into that -- those plants just as a temporary solution.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just following up on Carl's question about Atlantic Access.
Do you have updated number for the potential CapEx? I think last time we spoke it might have been about $1.5 billion.
Sharon this is Don.
At this -- with this current proposal a top tier [ph] it's quite a bit bigger than that.
We've not put a number out.
I think we'll try to give you a better range at our May 22 Analyst Day.
But again it's quite a bit larger if it went off exactly as it's currently proposed.
But obviously we have to get feedback from customers as [indiscernible] begins.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess for the Constitution Pipeline is the CapEx around $725 million? I think we're just saying it's between $700 million and $800 million at this point Sharon.
It certainly expanded as a result of the Southwestern Energy volume.
But that's about as close to target as we're going to draw on that at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I noticed for 2014 the guidance for the MC&amp;O business actually increased a bit.
Maybe if you can just touch on the reason for the increase in guidance? Sharon this is Don.
I'd just say that we have risked that.
But I think upon further study we decided that some of the call it probability had improved somewhat in terms of timing just timing of cash flows.
And that really caused us to increase the 2014 guidance.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now go to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> We have heard a lot about the Marcellus here.
But I'm just wondering if you can go back into your legacy areas in the Rockies.
Are you seeing with the low gas price seeing the rigs call back? Surely given that there's a lot of key pulse that the producers aren't really getting as much of the liquids uplift out there? This is Rory I'll take that call -- or that question.
Yes maybe just starting out in Southwest Wyoming.
We have seen a little bit of fall off there probably down about $100 million a day from the first of the year.
And I will tell you that we've got a lot of wells tied into those gathering systems.
Most of it's coming out of tight-sands production and so it's a hyperbolic decline.
The builder wells are on the very flat part of the decline.
And so up in Wyoming we've seen both shale and ultra have gone down to 2 rigs each so that's a drop of about 4 rigs in total.
That $100 million a day is probably indicative of the flat production that we were seeing.
And we think it'll be pretty stable because we are on those flat parts of the decline.
Over in Wamsutter we've had 4 rigs drilling over there and we've had 1 pull out.
And the other 3 are from producers that are getting the benefit to those NGLs and we don't anticipate those coming out of the equation.
Piceance has been down to about 5 rigs and that had been running at about 8.
So there's a little bit of slowdown there.
Again the producers are seeing the benefits of the NGLs there and we're not expecting any further decline there in the Piceance.
Down in Four Corners there are lots of wells tied into that.
It's pretty resilient to any kind of drastic falloff.
But we are down about 40 wells per year there in the Four Corners.
So it's pretty modest and I think the fall offs that we've seen they've been minor but I think those are indicative of what we'll see going forward until we get a little bit of increase in gas price.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's really helpful.
And then maybe a question for Don.
In terms of the equity that you did at WMB it looks like you entered [ph] a little more equity than you kind of have indicated for the Caiman Dow [ph].
I think you were -- you said you're going to give out 50-50 debt and equity for the $1 billion WPZ transaction.
Can you just talk about that? Is that -- or is it more sort of a defensive move or maybe is it more offensive? Are you thinking about acquisitions or whatnot down the road? I would say that on average our debt and equity mix will be about 50-50.
But in this case these assets were not really cash flowing and therefore didn't really support much debt.
So as we looked at our credit metrics to really do much in the way of debt would have really either caused a ratings -- a negative ratings reaction or really put us up against being really tight for additional growth.
So we felt that was the right thing to do to provide ability to continue to execute on some of the additional projects that we're currently contemplating.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just talking about the WMB equity again.
Would you use that -- similar to this for a transaction kind of related to that.
Or would you consider even just using it as an investment in WPZ? Do you have a lot of growth capital you're willing to do? And a lot of financing at the PZ level.
I'm just wondering what's the best use of the cash flow? Is it WMB relative to the dividend increases? I think to the extent that we have sustainable cash flows at Williams and kind of we laid that out in our dividend slide there in terms of the distribution from WPZ plus very strong distribution growth that MC&amp;O after substantial coverage of both PZ and MC&amp;O yes we think it's appropriate to pay dividend with the bulk of that.
We see Williams currency as being kind of a backup currency.
I think WPZ will be the primary financing vehicle for obviously for Williams Partners.
But certainly in situations like the Caiman we're trying to do more with WPZ may have put some stress on WPZ.
We felt that having Williams step up because it was good for Williams as well as good for WPZ.
So we'll use I think Williams very sparingly.
That's the only acquiescence we've had in the last decade.
But again if we see a situation that really is compelling it's a tool in the toolkit and I think a real advantage that we have relative to a lot of our competitors.
Next we'll go to Tim Schneider with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
Could you -- I just wanted to clarify on your Utica position how much dedicated acreage do you guys have? I see your Marcellus acreage at 1.2 million but what's the acreage I should look out in terms of what's dedicated for the Utica? There's not -- we have some what I would say kind of historic acreage dedication that has Utica rights underneath it but we don't have any acreage that we've specifically done after for Utica drilling at this point.
So there is some locations back from the particularly from the Atlas dedication that had that -- had Utica acreage underlying it.
But in terms of things that we specifically gone after for the Utica we do not have any Utica at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then this goes in the Rockies I guess it's been kind of a little bit of a discovery in the Paradox basin for liquids and oil.
Can you guys just remind us how you guys are positioned in that basin? Yes I'll take that.
This is Rory.
Paradox is something that I think was drawing some interest several years ago.
And in fact we built some early production systems out there.
The resource is definitely in place there.
Producers were working hard including our affiliate at the time to kind of crack the code on how to commercially produce that.
I think they're still working on that.
So I would look at the Paradox as still a work in progress.
We do have some minor facilities there in case things do take off.
But I don't see that as something that we're real excited about right now.
I think if I was to point to some of the exciting things that are coming out West I'd point to the Mancos shale play down in the San Juan basin.
It's like a lot of these shale plays.
It's got 3 different windows a dry gas a condensate wet gas window and an oil window and that's starting to attract a lot of attention.
There's a very similar play in the Mancos -- in the Piceance with the same 3 types of windows and there's activity in that area as well.
And although this is probably something I can't say nearly as much about there is up in the Wamsutter area a shale play that's being tried up in that area as well.
So as we're seeing these shale plays particularly wet gas shale plays that are developing around the country they tend to be in places where there's already production.
And what we're finding is that's the case out West as well and there's activity in 3 of our 4 basis today pursuing that kind of a play.
So I think we'll have some more exciting things to talk about in the next 6 to 12 months as those place get a little better understood.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Alan in your prepared remarks on the podcast I think you talked about some opportunities in your Marcellus part of the pie to take advantage of power conversions I think.
I was wondering if you can elaborate a little bit about that? Was that coal-to-gas switching? Was there something that -- something else I'm talking about new buildup of gas plants? And what was it that was opportunity out of your under negotiation of your potential part of the pie? Yes probably I was talking so fast I mixed 2 things there.
Certainly coming for Transco really the 2 primary drivers for Transco right now is serving the producers' needs getting out in the Marcellus.
But as well we've seen a lot of interest from the market and wanting access to the Marcellus as well for long-term things like power plant conversions.
And so I think there's a real concern on the part of the power generation industry about making sure they've got plenty of reliable access to supply us long term.
And so I think Transco is perfectly positioned to do that because it can provide access from supplies in the South and even areas obviously like the midcontinent supplies and Barnett Shale and Haynesville and so forth.
They come into Transco at station 85 and as well as of course the Gulf Coast supplies.
But as well now they would have access with supplies from the North.
And so the power generation -- Transco is extremely well positioned if somebody is concerned about reliability be it its multiple loop lines right through these populated areas and access multiple access to supply points.
And so that is driving a lot of interest and demand for Transco being kind of the pipe of choice out there for the power generation conversions.
Yes.
This is Randy Barnard.
I was just a blurb to add in the quarterly data book you'll see a couple of slides in there that attempt to quantify with little more exactitude the opportunities for conversions surrounding Transco slide 53 in particular.
There goes another one in there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question from me.
Also in your prepared remarks you talked about in the under negotiation of potential category 2 more FPSs.
What's the -- I mean how do we look at converting that potential into a firm sort of project? What are the things that could happen or could go against you in order to turn that into a fixed firm project? I'll take that.
This is Rory.
I guess what I would say is that the main competition out there for that kind of a product is the producers themselves.
There aren't a lot of people out there right now with that kind of product.
And the big advantage is really time to first oil [ph] so it's really around the producers wanting to accelerate their cash flows.
We're standing ready with the product that can do that.
The producer's option is to self-develop but they're starting from a standing soft and has a fairly significant impact on the present value of the projects.
So we think the financials on the product are very compelling.
We've got probably 5 or 6 of those that are in various states of discussion.
And one of the nice things about these opportunities is that the producers will make a decision.
When they find and make a discovery and they're probably in the 100 million barrels plus range with the price of oil where it is and the prospects going forward being pretty bright for crude oil.
These producers are going to make a decision and they are going to move forward.
And so we're really counting on a couple of more of them deciding they'd like to accelerate that cash flow and they'd like to outsource that business.
And there are a number of producers that are getting interested in that even more so.
They don't really get any credit on their balance sheet for adding steel.
They get credit for adding proven reserves.
And so it works well for both parties.
And I think the confidence that Hess and Chevron has shown us in our first sale of a GulfStar augurs well for the additional opportunities for us out there.
So just in terms of timing I think over the next 12 months I think there's a great chance that we can add another one.
There's no guarantees on that but the deal churn that we've got I think that's a possibility.
We'll now go to Jeremy Tonet with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Well Williams seems to have a very full plate of organic growth projects to drive growth going forward.
I was just wondering if you guys could comment on any appetite for expanding or acquiring assets further down the NGL value chain.
Well I would say that we do see a lot of opportunity.
And as Rory mentioned earlier in the Marcellus we certainly are very aware that in fact even though it wasn't embedded in our economics for the Caiman acquisition we think that puts us in a great position to be a solution provider for NGL infrastructure in that area where it's so desperately needed.
But certainly the Mont-Bellevue area is pretty crowded in terms of service providers in that area.
But we're getting a lot of interest from the petchem side in terms of providing more customized infrastructure and helping to move product around.
You can't really go expanding the ethylene cracking capacity in the way the ethylene volumes are growing without quite a bit of infrastructure in and around the petchem space there.
And so we are very focused on that area.
So I think we see a lot of opportunity at the far upstream end of the midstream infrastructure and the far downstream end of the midstream infrastructure and are looking at some very interesting projects there that take advantage of our liquids and our production but help petchems look out for the future where their supplies are going to be coming from.
So to answer your question it's yes.
But I wouldn't translate that into thinking that we're going to be into the fray where there's plenty of players right now in particularly -- in the Bellevue area proper as the merchant during that space.
So we think there's quite a crowd there already.
And we wouldn't want to butt in to that space just because we don't think we'd provide the kind of margin and return that we expect from our other opportunities.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
I was just wondering also if there were any updated thoughts on where the Confluence project stands? Confluence is moving ahead.
We of course we announced there that Southwestern Energy had also -- oh sorry Confluence sorry I had that confused -- we have too many projects starting with C.
Confluence is a lot of interest from producers in that area.
But that area is very underserved with infrastructure in Northwestern PA both on the gathering side and particularly on the NGL extraction.
And that area is very rich with gas.
So we like that area.
We think it's going to need some infrastructure.
And while we don't have anything new to announce there we're having a lot of discussions going on with a lot of different large players in the area that understand the need for the infrastructure and see us as well positioned to providing that.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay well great.
Well thank you.
Appreciate all the great questions this morning.
And we certainly are continuing to drive forward and execute.
Very proud of the way our organization continues to execute in a very -- in an area that we got so much growth going on but very proud of the way we're executing on projects and continuing to run the businesses very well as we demonstrated this quarter.
And so we look forward to continuing to talk to you about some more detail on these projects at our May 22 webcast.
Thanks for joining us this morning.
Once again this does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you all for joining us.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams.
As you know yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com.
These items include the press release of our results with related schedules and our analyst package; a presentation on our results and growth opportunities with related audio commentary from our President and CEO Alan Armstrong; and an update to our quarterly data book which contains detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
This morning Alan will make a few brief comments and then we will open the discussion for Q&amp;A.
Rory Miller is here from our Midstream business; Randy Barnard is here from our Gas Pipeline business; and our CFO Don Chappel is also available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in the quarterly data book you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that have been reconciled back to generally excepted accounting principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Great.
Thanks John and good morning.
Thanks for joining us and it's a busy time right now and so we appreciate you being able to take the time out for us.
Well certainly despite a very disappointing financial performance in the second quarter and significantly lower margin forecast for the balance of '12 and '13 we're very pleased that despite that we're able to continue to remain confident in our very well-supported dividend growth which is still at 55% here in 2012 and 20% both in '13 and '14.
So a lot of our confidence on that continues to come from the degree of coverage that we've had built into our model as well as the extraordinary maintenance costs or maintenance capital we have built into PZ right now and as well a lot of continued strong growth coming from our fee-based business.
Our second quarter performance was certainly impacted by a rapid decline in NGL prices but a few things as well.
Theres one thing I think that isn't always obvious in the way we report is that we also have a pretty significant amount of product that's in transit that is held in pipelines.
And of course that gets remarked each quarter based on the pricing decline.
So in fact in this period we had about $22 million impact on that over and above what you would see in your typical pricing model.
So whenever we see prices move down that gets somewhat accelerated.
And when we see it move back the other way it comes back to us.
But there were certainly were other factors as well beyond pricing.
Some growing pains the Boreal Pipeline line fill.
The high start-up O&amp;M cost associated with the Caiman pipeline -- or sorry the Caiman acquisition that we now refer to as Ohio Valley and as well quite a bit of depreciation expense going on with that as well.
But we also had higher maintenance costs which we accelerated some of our work on a lot of our Western plants as we had a third-party fractionator being out during the second quarter that required us to take some of our plants down so we took advantage of that and accelerated things like a lot of turbine overhauls embezzled maintenance during the period.
The good news for the quarter a 19% increase in our fee-based businesses within our midstream portion of WPZ.
And we certainly had great progress on our major project execution going on during the quarter as well.
So we remain very confident in the way our model is growing particularly on the fee-based business side.
Just commenting quickly on prices.
Certainly the second quarter drop that we had from the first and second quarter was over 20% on our NGL margins and the balance of the year is forecasted to be approximately 30% lower than what we recognized in the first quarter of '12.
So we certainly have in this model we have taken it down to what we're seeing and certainly we expect for prices particularly on the light-end products ethane and propane to be very choppy as we see a lot of new infrastructure and supply coming on of the NGL side but a bit ahead of a lot of the Petrochemical build out and some of the export build out on the propane side.
The NGL crude ratios are really what drove us.
A lot of folks have thought about this from a crude standpoint but really the crude price had very little to do with this.
And we've got in our forecast we've got NGL to crude ratio is running at about 40% here through the balance of the year versus historical average of 60% and the almost 57% that we realized in 2011.
So certainly that disconnect that we saw on the ethane and propane side is what really damaged the second quarter from a pricing standpoint and we expect that to continue as the market needs to be balanced on the supply side on both ethane and propane.
The good news of course for Williams is with the Geismar facility.
As we're expanding that we moved away from a lot of the risk on the ethane choppiness.
We're not all buried long term on NGLs as much as we are realizing that there's going to be a lot of infrastructure changes going on as this market tries to build out and we think there will be quite a bit of volatility associated with that.
On the project news a lot of great efforts going on around the company right now in terms of building out our $9 billion that's in our guidance for CapEx through 2014.
The Boreal Pipeline we brought on this certainly in the second quarter and that was brought on below budget -- below our planned budget excuse me.
And as well brought in a little ahead of schedule.
Our ethane extraction project in Canada is also going very well and that project has been very well executed.
So this will really be the third project the ethane extraction project that we've managed up there the first being the BB splitter the Boreal Pipeline and now the ethane extraction project.
And our Canadian team continues to do a great job of executing on those projects.
Likewise in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico our GulfStar project is going ahead very nicely the Keathley Canyon project is doing very well.
And I'll tell you we remain very bullish on the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico as an oil province and we really think that we're very well positioned to provide a lot of the service as the Deepwater comes back.
The Caiman or Ohio Valley efforts a lot of effort going on in the build out people from really all over our systems up there trying to assist with getting that business built out and the tremendous amount of activity going on a lot of promise.
And we're very excited about the way things are going so far on that acquisition.
The Laurel Mountain Midstream build out we're getting to the point where we're almost I can say that we're not constraining production there with the infrastructure.
We have for sometime a lot of that volumes been limited by our infrastructure up there as Chevron continues to drill out that acreage.
And we're about to get to the point where we'll be out in front of them a little bit with the expansion so we're excited about that.
And then of course the Geismar expansion continues to go very well and it's well contracted at this point.
And the gas pipeline space the Northeast Supply Link project continues ahead and as well our Rockway lateral.
We are hopeful that we can get a positive response.
That is waiting on a bill in front of Congress and so we're looking forward to that.
In addition we also have a lot of new projects that have been recently announced the Canadian propane dehydrogenation project which would be there at our Redwater facility.
We think we're extremely well positioned for that project and it's a very nice compliment to our propylene production that we have there today in Canada already.
And then the Utica JV that we announced we're excited about the promise of that a little early to comment too much on that today but that JV is completed and we're excited about the promises there.
And you'll see in our capital guidance you'll see that we've added in capital for that JV in terms of our expectation for that.
We just announced Leidy expansion and really excited about the way that's gone.
That project winds up being a very nice project for us in terms of being able to expand along our Leidy system and we think thatll be both a lower-risk project for us in the immediate term but also provides we think a great value to producers and to our markets in giving them great access to the supplies up there.
So we're very excited about that.
And we certainly haven't shut the door in any way shape or form on the Atlantic access but we're not about to go ahead with a very risky build like that without very strong support from the producer community and in terms of contracts that make sense for the kind of return that's allowed in the pipeline basis.
Finally the Dalton lateral Mobile Bay South are also projects that are gaining steam here in the second quarter and into the third quarter.
And so our backlog continues to mount as does our confidence in our strategy in our growth in our dividend.
And so with that I'll turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Kevin Smith with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you speak on the Boreal Pipeline how much that lowered your NGL volumes by this quarter when you started up and to fill it? Yes.
That was about a $9 million hit to us with the fill.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
No reason that any of that should impact 3Q right? It's all behind? I'm sorry I didn't catch that.
Could you repeat that question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> He ask if it would effect third quarter at all.
I don't think so.
The line is full now and so we'll be gearing that but there shouldn't be any additional hit after that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question on the Geismar plant can you kind of talk a little bit about how much EBITDA and cash flow thats generating right now? And I guess where you are in your CapEx plans for it? We typically haven't released individual numbers for Geismar.
The second part of your question on the CapEx plans.
We've got a couple of capital projects going on there right now.
We're upgrading some of our furnaces.
I think we've got -- that project is partially completed but is ongoing.
And then of course we've got our major expansion the plant being serviced in the third quarter of '13.
Those are the main CapEx plans for Geismar at this point.
And Bradley Olson with Tudor Pickering has our next question.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions on the Atlantic Access and Leidy announcements.
I assume it's safe to say that given that Leidy is kind of running along the existing lateral that's going to be a higher return project than building out the new laterals to Butler and Natrium would have been.
Alan is that something youd like me to take? Yes Frank please.
Yes.
I think as Alan said the fact that we have existing Leidy Line already there that the execution risk associated with the new build would be less than a greenfield project.
The economics of each of the pieces are going to be a function of the kind of shipper commitments that you get.
And so as Alan also said we're going to continue to monitor the interest along that new greenfield build and we will proceed with that when we get enough interest from producers to support an economic project.
We're just not there for in-service day of 2015 but based on the projections that we've seen on the production in the area we think at sometime that will make economic sense.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And as far as the Natrium lateral that was canceled so that moves -- that was kind of designed to move gas out of Southwest PA and Northern West Virginia.
Should we view the cancellation or at least the delay of Natrium as having any read throughs for your production forecasts in the part of the Marcellus where the Ohio Valley assets are also operating? Yes I'll take that.
No that is not in any way shape or form the case.
We're very confident in the volumes there and the drilling activity that continues there.
I think the producers are fairly confident in the area and are happy to take the prices that they can get on some of the systems that are further to the east over there.
And so time will tell if that will hold up in terms of those net backs.
But today I think they are confident that there's adequate takeaway there today.
And again that becomes crowded.
Once it becomes crowded the price will decline.
But I think today as evidenced by the interest they're pretty comfortable with the current gas markets coming out of that space today.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
Another one on Transco operations.
Looking at -- and I understand that most Transco revenue is firm but there is a variable component that can move around quarter-to-quarter.
And I know that this is a seasonally weaker quarter historically for Transco but it looks as though there's -- that revenue or EBITDA per Mcf on Transco this quarter was kind of lower than it had been on a year-over-year and a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Is that just because the nature of the volumes are just increasingly short haul? And so on a kind of per unit basis you're seeing revenues decline or was there something operationally with Transco this quarter that made the results a little bit softer there? This is Frank Ferrazi.
As you indicated we do have some costs allocated interruptible transportation and we tend to -- if that can be impacted by changes in seasons.
Obviously we're going to do better in the winter there than we're going to do in the summer.
There really were no operational issues that occurred in the second quarter that would have resulted in lower earnings.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one.
I guess from an accounting perspective why was it that the accelerated maintenance that you talked about in the Rockies why did that show up in higher midstream OpEx as opposed to capital? And as a result of that accelerated maintenance would it be reasonable to expect that maybe the run rate OpEx for the remainder of 2012 would be lower in the midstream segment? Yes.
That wasn't maintenance capital it was just O&amp;M that was accelerated.
And mainly we were moving forward from what would otherwise be spent in the third and fourth quarter.
So we should see some moderation forward-looking for the rest of the year based on that work that we did.
Moving next to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions here.
First a follow-on to Kevin's Boreal question.
Was that $9 million hit all expected just for packing the new line or was that inclusive of some impact from the Suncor plant being done? No.
That was just from the line pack.
Inc.</strong> And what was the impact from the Suncor plant? Hang on just a second let me pull that up.
Inc.</strong> While that's being looked for on the prepared comments or the recorded comments I was a little unclear on what the time frame was the duration for the underwater ethylene supply contracts that kind of have margins at Geismar versus what the market opportunities really were in the first half? Those basically timeout pretty well at the end of this year a little bit of run into '13.
But by the end of '13 there's not any residual impact from that.
So mostly by the end of '12 most of those contracts runout.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then if you're still looking up that Boreal question from Suncor I had one last follow up here.
Craig I do have that if you want me to interject that there.
Inc.</strong> Sure go ahead.
Yes.
It looks like it's a little over $4 million for Q2 that was related that Suncor outage.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So the $9 million was naturally expected because you knew you had to finish the pipeline to fill it.
The $4 million is the unexpected is that a fair statement? Yes that is.
And a part of that lapped into Q1 and then part into Q2.
Inc.</strong> Are now you're talking about the line packing? I'm talking about the Suncor outage.
They had 1 unit for about 15 days and another unit was operating about 75% load.
So the $4 million is related just strictly to the Q2 outage and then the $9 million is isolated to just the impact the Boreal Pipeline.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And the last question Alan how do you avoid the issues regarding nonqualified income at PZ with a potential drop-down of Geismar.
Because that seemed to be the logical thing all along somehow that a contractor dropped down to make a true internal operating hedge rather than just a consolidated accounting hedge.
But there's always this question of nonqualified income at the MLP.
Did you find a way around that? Well I would just say that -- I would say we took it head-on and I would say that we're very confident in how we're handling that and time will tell in terms of what gets exposed there about what supports that confidence.
Inc.</strong> As far as details on any drop-down I mean how eminent do you think that could be? Craig this is Don.
I think we'd be working through the process with the WPZ complex committee and their advisers probably expect the closing in the fourth quarter.
Moving on to Carl Kirst with BMO.
This is actually just a follow-on to Craig's about the qualifying income and recognizing was only limited maybe you can say.
But I guess regardless of how this is approached just since this is somewhat of a precedent.
Will there be some type of private letter ruling or some clarification from the IRS that kind of sets it in stone? Again I would just say that we are very confident in how that's going to be treated and that's really all we want to say about it at this point.
This is Don.
I'd just add that again we think that it's some information that provides a competitive advantage for us so that's the reason that we're not more clear in terms of the basis for our confidence.
Okay.
That latter statement is very helpful so I appreciate that.
And maybe just a couple of follow-ups one going back to the accelerated maintenance that was done on the midstream side.
Did that actually in the third-party fractionator outage did that have an impact on the equity sales volumes for the quarter? And if so by how much? Yes.
It did.
We had a total production related kind of directly to the bush and frac outage was about 25 million gallons.
And of that about 15 million was related to our own equity account.
Okay.
Then one other question just on Geismar this just goes to the utilization the 74% utilization kind of on par with second quarter last year but down sequentially.
Was that just normal maintenance for this time of year or was something else going on there? Yes.
We did in Q2 have a determined issue there that had us down I believe it was 7 days.
One of those days was actually in Q1 and then the remaining 6 days was in Q2.
And we were I think that was related to about 28 million pounds total being down about $24 a day.
Okay.
Yes that would explain the difference.
Great.
And then last question and this really is just Caiman Ohio Valley I guess just trying to set the baseline for where we are today.
Is it possible to break out what the volumes were for the second quarter? Let me see I've got the right-hand man looking that up right now.
But I will say in general Alan mentioned a little bit about what's going on there from a producer input standpoint.
In general I would say the volume situation has been very positive and we've got producers waiting on pipeline waiting on infrastructure results are looking very favorable.
I think all of the movement that we've heard on volumes from producers has been to the upside if anything.
So the area and the quality of the reserves was fantastic it.
Let's see yes for second quarter we're right around 182 Bbtu and about 20 million gallons of NGL production.
I apologize can you repeat those numbers.
182 Bbtu per day.
And you said 20 million gallons? 20 million gallons yes.
And that's just 2 months of production.
Moving on to Steve Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just some follow-ups on the Geismar proposed drop-down you mentioned in the release of taking units back.
Is the idea that this would potentially be solely WPZ units going up the WMB to fund this? Steve this is Don.
Yes and that's really tax-driven.
If we take cash we'll pay taxes.
And tax basis is fairly modest so we're inclined to take the units to be tax efficient and have as little value loss to taxes as possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that you haven't released individual numbers on Geismar's cash generating ability but did you put a chart in there that shows ethylene produced and the margin.
Is there something else to it other than that arithmetic for us to figure out? Well I would say that's the bulk of it.
You also have propylene production and butadiene production as well.
And so that and the operating costs are the other elements you'd have to get to to see an [indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final thing on the Geismar.
Is there a thought as to what -- right now you're forecasting 1.03 coverage next year at WPZ.
Is there an idea of what this would take PZs coverage to where you'd like to see it after this? Steve I don't think we want to put any numbers out.
We're in discussions with the complex committee at this point.
So I think as we reach that agreement with the complex committee we'll announce the transaction and provide updated guidance for both WPZ and Williams at that time.
I would say obviously we recognize that business is not a fee-based business.
And so our coverage needs to be higher than certainly higher than normal in terms of how that would impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about I think an ethylene margin rebound is part of the '14 earnings going up.
Can you talk just a little bit about what the thoughts are behind the drivers for that? Sure.
We certainly feel like that the U.S.
continues to be the advantage in North America.
In general I would say it continues to be the advantaged place to produce ethylene.
And we see that demand continuing to come up on a global basis through the period.
And so pretty confident in the general fundamentals around ethylene.
And if you think about somebody trying to build ethylene capacity somewhere else in the face of this very low-cost natural gas I think that drives our confidence and certainty we have a pretty good picture of what's going on in the ethylene capacity here in the U.S.
Very fortunate to have Geismar on the front end of any these capacity expansions but there's really not very much other coming on in the near term -- or sorry in the near term to 2014.
So we see a great promise coming on a lot of NGL supplies coming on but it just takes a while to build that cracking capacity to meet that increased demand that's coming on.
And so that builds our confidence there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Finally on the proposed PDH facility.
A couple of things you talked about I guess transporting I think the propylene to the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
How would that happen? And then is that going to be funded with -- is there enough cash on hand to fund all that? Yes.
That will be railed is the plan.
And I think our belief is that with our current international funds offshore accounts and the cash flow from the existing business that is growing along with our ethylene project that that should be fairly well self-contained.
We do rail today a tremendous amount of propylene out of Redwater already today.
And so this would be just additive which is again a nice feature that a lot of the infrastructure in terms the storage of propylene and railing and loading of propylene we already got all that in place.
So this is just additive and I think that's why we feel very confident about us being the right builder of that PDH facility in Canada.
We've also got the BB splitter up there which is going to help us with the products.
We've also got a very unique situation with our sale to NOVA of the ethane/ethylene mix.
And so those are advantages that we think we uniquely hold.
And so it appears to be kind of an advantaged opportunity for us.
Moving on to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sticking with the PDH unit here.
Have you given any thought to actually contracting up the propylene volumes or do you want to kind of keep that price risk on the propylene side as well? We're looking at kind of all of our options right now.
I would say right now our main focus is on scoping getting some of the initial engineering work done and we're looking at all the options and certainly this decision of the propylene is one of the big decisions that we'll be making before we sanction the project.
But that's an ongoing exercise.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I appreciate the slides on ethylene crack.
It looks like you're forecasting in 2014 that you won't quite get to the industry benchmark.
I'm just wondering what would cause you to be short of that plus or minus to hit it or try to be short of it? When you say industry benchmark are you talking about the spot with the crack spread? Research Division</strong> Yes.
That ethylene spread that you show in 2014 it looks like you realized margin might be short of that.
I'm just wondering is there something with Geismar that you wouldn't hit the industry margin or is there just a difference in the definition there? There are couple of things that work there.
And one is that even though I think we flagged earlier that in early '13 we'll have an opportunity to re-contract almost our entire portfolio we still have a legacy contract out there that won't be fully exposed to the spot market.
So that's one piece of the story.
I think the other piece of the story is just a little bit of conservatism that's built into how we're able to execute in terms of putting those spot contracts into place.
And at times there is some give-and-take between a true spot market deal and a term deal that's tied in the spot market.
Research Division</strong> But your intention is to pretty much be spot in other words to not do term deals with Geismar? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then just coming back a little bit to the questions on the ethylene margin.
Do you care to share what your actual ethane price forecasts are that gets to that ethylene margin in 2014? Yes.
$0.55 a gallon.
Moving on to Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Lots of questions on Geismar this morning so just maybe trying to tie the bow there.
In the slides you point out the shift in mix to spot pricing.
Previously we had talked about kind of a half based on fee half based on exposure to the spread.
I'm assuming kind of addressing Craig's question earlier by the end of 2012 we'll be all based on the spread.
Is that how to think about? Yes.
I think that's accurate.
Of course a lot can happen between now and then.
But certainly our goal there will be balanced against our ethane exposure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you kind of give the chart here.
Can you just tell us what your margin was that you realized on the spread in 2Q? Stand by Holly.
That's $0.20.
Research Division</strong> Say that again I'm sorry.
$0.20 balance.
Research Division</strong> $0.20 okay.
And that was down from $0.40 in the first quarter of '12.
Research Division</strong> $0.40 in 1Q that's perfect.
And then lastly...
Thinking about the portfolio mix like Alan's referencing the crack spread out there as opposed to our realized margins.
So Q1 was $0.18 and 2Q was $0.20.
That $0.40 which was first half '12 that's really what the broad market crack spread was.
And so that's basically what we got built into our 2014 pricing is at that $0.40 level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then last quarter you gave some nice commentary on kind of the different rig counts that you were seeing across each of your areas.
Is anything on the rig count side changed since last call that might impact things here moving throughout the year? This is Rory.
I think in general that kind of step down in activity out West that we flag for you is still pretty consistent.
I don't think there are any material changes to that level of activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then finally just one kind of follow-up on the macro side of things.
You're hearing commentary that most of those ethylene plants that were down for maintenance in the first half of the year are back up and running.
Is there anything else that's kind of still weighing on that? Yes.
Right now if you think about ethane supply and that's always a challenge to measure that accurately but about 1 million barrels a day right now on the supply side this is where we think it's at.
All of the crackers are up and running now.
Thank goodness.
And that's about 1 million barrels a day of demand.
So we see supply and demand very much in balance.
I think in Q4 there are 2 crackers that are scheduled to go down temporarily.
So that's all we see for the remainder of the year.
So the situation should be a little more stable than what we saw in the first half.
Moving on to Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks like for your MC&amp;O business the guidance refers to a coverage of 1.3x.
I guess Geismar is dropped down to WPZ level.
Do you think that type of coverage on the cash flow is appropriate or are you comfortable with something a bit lower given the natural hedge? Sharon I think you have to stay tuned for that but clearly yes it does sharply reduce ethane exposure or eliminates the long ethane position after the expansion of WPZ.
So we certainly reduce that but we'll have ethylene exposure and we'll need to make sure that coverage is sufficient to account for that.
Again if ethylene prices are very high it is expected to have relatively high coverage on that part of the business.
And that if ethylene prices are lower we would expect less coverage just like our NGLs today.
If you look at Slide #83 I think we tried to indicate that somewhat but we'll be tuning that up as we go through discussions with the complex committee as well as continue to look at our view of the forward market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess also related to the Geismar drop-down should we just assume that it would be structured so that WPZ would not be paying I guess taxes on that cash flow? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess on the PDH potential project do you have like a potential in-service timing of that facility the 2015 project? Yes.
I don't think we've released anything on that yet.
And it is as we noted kind of in the scoping phase right now.
So that's probably something we'll be able to give a little more color on in the coming quarters.
But I think right now it's a little preliminary to drive a stake in the ground.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess in terms of feeling comfortable to proceed with that comp -- with that project would you be looking to secure minimum volume commitments or like a fixed propylene margin? Yes.
I think that kind of gets back to the earlier answer that I gave around disposition of propylene and we're looking at all the options.
Of course if you do lock something in fixed you're probably giving away some upside.
And those are decisions that we'll be making as the projects get fully bedded and pulled together.
So we should have a good line of sight on that by the time that project is sanctioned.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then I guess the last question in terms of the Leidy announcement has that CapEx been included in your budget yet? Sharon it has not.
So when we come forward again with guidance we'll update to include that assuming that the open season is concluded.
And we've got all the contracts tied down so we know the size of that.
And moving on to the Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisers.
Research Division</strong> Sorry still one more question on Geismar.
I respect your desire for the competitive advantage but when you do the drop since it is very significant will you provide investors the basis for why you think that you will not pay taxes on the income.
Becca I think you have to stay tuned for that.
I think we'll have to see if that's something that is required or we feel is something that we need to author.
Again I think we believe that we have something that is unique at this point and we want to make sure we take full advantage of it without necessarily offering the roadmap for others.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the PDH facility as I understand that you'll need about 20 000 barrels a day or 20 million barrels a day of propane is that correct? And you would have 7 000.
So where will the incremental come from to source that PDH facility? Well as you're probably aware from previous calls we do have other projects were working on out there.
So over time we do expect our equity propane to increase.
But there are plenty of places between now and then to buy propane in Canada.
So we don't see the supply side as any particular challenge for us right now and we're very comfortable with that.
Whether we're going out on the open market and buying it or whether were just building it over time with our internal equity barrels.
Research Division</strong> And then the rail cost to get it down to the Gulf Coast what kind of delta in propane prices do you need relative to the Gulf Coast in order to make up for that $0.05 a pound rail cost.
I dont think we want to get into probably that level of detail yet.
We've got ongoing analysis on that.
And I would say let's leave that for future call but we do think the situation is very favorable and are supportive of that project.
But we have some continued analysis that is ongoing on that.
Research Division</strong> And then finally on Marcellus.
If my memory serves me well you guys were expecting gathered volumes from the Susquehanna Hub of about 1 Bcf a day this year and Laurel Mountain about 250 million a day.
Is that still the case? Those are generally in the neighborhood.
I think on Laurel Mountain we're probably already over that.
I think we're over at 280 if I'm not mistaken on Laurel Mountain.
And I think our target on Susquehanna Hub is just shy of 1 Bcf a day by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> And where are you guys now on Susquehanna? Let's see.
Hang on just a second Becca let me just track that down.
I can get it offline if you want.
I'll just follow-up offline to get that one.
All right.
And next we'll hear from Nathan Copicar [ph] from Viking Global Investors.
Actually Igan [ph].
I had a similar question about the Geismar cracker so we can move on.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn things back over to Mr.
Armstrong for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you again for joining us.
And we look forward to continuing to share our growth with you in the future.
Thanks for your interest.
And this does conclude our conference call for today.
We'd like to thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Companies' Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams.
As you know yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com.
These items include the press release of our results with related schedules and our analyst package; a presentation on our results and growth opportunities with related audio commentary from our President and CEO Alan Armstrong; and an update to our quarterly data book which contains detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
This morning Alan will make a few brief comments and then we will open the discussion up for Q&amp;A.
Rory Miller is here from our Midstream business; Frank Ferazzi is here from our Gas Pipeline business; and our CFO Don Chappel is also available to respond to any of your questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in the quarterly data book you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that have been reconciled back to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan.
Thanks John and good morning everyone.
First let me wish everyone who has been affected by Hurricane Sandy the best of luck in the recovery.
As you know given the significant disruption that occurred to the normal market activity we decided to delay our earnings release webcast by a day.
We also know this concentrated a number of earnings calls today so thanks a bunch for joining us this morning for this webcast amongst a very busy morning.
Hopefully you had a chance to listen to my prerecorded comments released yesterday afternoon.
But just in case you didn't I'll quickly hit on some key themes and then we'll move on to our Q&amp;A session.
We have several really important items to communicate to you this week starting with of course a review of our third quarter performance.
So I'll quickly touch on the key themes from that discussion.
For the third quarter WMB's adjusted income was up about 17% over second quarter in spite of NGL fracs that for -- sorry frac spreads that were about 18% lower on average than the already-low 2 -- second quarter amounts and the impact of Hurricane Isaac and I'll talk about that just a little bit.
With regard to the NGL frac spread we saw about a 9% lower average NGL composite price but an even higher impact from natural gas Street [ph] prices that were up about 26% on average.
So certainly the frac spread environment that we saw in the third quarter continued to decline from what was a heavy decline from first quarter to second quarter and so we were not expecting that degree of decline into the third quarter.
And again a lot of that was impacted by gas prices moving up.
Turning to fee-based revenues now for third quarter.
This measure grew about 5% per -- year-over-year for the third quarter.
And importantly at the Midstream segment for WPZ this grew at about a 12% rate so continued great volume growth there in our fee-based revenues.
And just to a highlight a few of the areas that affected that our gathering volumes in the business so that's as our natural gas gathering volumes in the Midstream business were up 17% higher from 3Q '11 to 3Q of '12.
And in the eastern onshore which is basically at our Marcellus area and the Perdido Norte which is in the western Gulf of Mexico we saw both of those areas gathering volumes actually double from year-to-year.
The main driver of the 12% growth rate for -- overall for our business was the eastern G&amp;P business as I mentioned.
And of course one of the drivers there was the acquisition from the Caiman which we now refer to as the Ohio Valley Midstream in our business and that was up about $30 million between years.
Also there was a couple of factors that brought that 12% growth rate down and tended to lessen it.
The Hurricane Isaac reduced some of our Gulf Coast fee-based revenues and in third quarter of '11 we actually had a pretty significant contract settlement related to some of our Perdido Norte business.
So on a normalized basis we see these fee-based revenues actually growing even stronger than the 12% for WPZ Midstream.
Most of the Hurricane Isaac impacts were caused by interruptions in third-party operations.
So while we did have some immediate interruption in our offshore assets in particular in terms of getting things back up and running it really was due to some downstream oil terminals and some downstream NGL pipelines that held us up a little bit longer.
So we really did fare pretty well against our assets but there were some assets that we're integrated with that were a little more challenged.
Hurricane Isaac also significantly impacted our results in the Midstream Canadian and olefins business as Geismar had downtime that affected its production volumes as well as some damage to a furnace as we tried to restart the plant after the hurricane.
So all-in this affected our segment profit from about $9 million to $13 million and about $4 million of this was treated as an assessment for adjusted segment profit.
So that's a quick look at our third quarter drivers.
But again given the continued lower NGL commodity price environment and the Hurricane Isaac impact we actually had a pretty good operational period here for the third quarter.
So next up we have some important updates to our guidance for '13 and '14 from both WMB and WPZ.
Included in these updates are the effect of the Geismar drop-down which we've announced we will be closing very soon.
But we've also got some other adjustments including somewhat lower revenue growth rate assumptions for WPZ.
And these are really being driven by a prolonged natural gas price assumption and some of the producers' reactions that we're seeing to that as we went through our September planning process where we take in a lot of the input from a lot of our producers around our systems.
And I certainly want to let you know this really is across-the-board that we're seeing this in areas that where the -- where we may -- where the producer themselves is heavily impacted by the gas prices.
So some examples of that would be areas where we hold the keep-hole [ph] rights for natural gas drilling operations.
And so the producers are not enjoying any of the uplift from the NGLs and so of course they're responding to lower natural gas prices.
Those of course would be mostly out west where that would occur.
We also had some response in the Gulf Coast and then to some degree in the northeast.
But we'll get into a little bit the northeast.
The good news I would say in the northeast is that the activities continue there.
And for the most part the activities particularly in the Ohio Valley Midstream area really have nothing to do with either prices or with the drilling results from the resources.
Actually those are coming in a little better than we thought.
It's really just a delay in terms of the activity and our ability to get infrastructure into place there quickly.
So all in all I would say the environment's pretty good.
But I do think with our gas price assumption at $3.25 that's in our assumptions and planning around that we do expect continued reduction in areas that are totally dependent on just the natural gas price.
So I do want to reaffirm our plans for a strong cash dividend growth where we're expecting a 50% -- 55% higher dividend in 2012 at WMB and as well the 20% growth in each 2013 and 2014 which would move our dividend to $1.20 $1.44 and $1.75 respectively.
Our stated policy of paying out WMB dividends for all of the distributions WMB receives from WPZ less taxes corporate interests and corporate CapEx.
However we also want investors to appreciate how committed we are at sustaining the great strength of WPZ for the long run and of course that's what the Geismar drop-down is all about and it clearly shows the evidence of WMB's commitment to keeping WPZ healthy and making sure that the commodity hedge the natural commodity hedge there is shared with WPZ and not just held with the WMB level.
So in that transaction WMB is receiving nearly 43 million new WPZ LP units related to the Geismar drop-down.
Assuming the strong WPZ cash distribution growth rate included in our guidance WMB will see a significant increase in cash distributions from WPZ.
This could result of course in an ultimately higher dividend growth rate from what we have forecasted right now for WMB.
And certainly if the forecasted pricing environment that we have out there particularly around ethylene prices occurs then we would certainly be in a position to further increase the dividend at WMB.
So a lot of questions around that as a lot of people have snapped to the fact that our cash distributions will go up significantly from that.
And we've certainly been clear that we intend to maintain the policy.
And I think our response to that is we certainly agree with that calculation but we do have quite a bit of risk embedded in that pricing at WPZ.
And so we don't really want to go out any further on that distribution being 2 years ahead of time in terms of the dividend at WMB.
I do think we intend to be very sure and really work hard to maintain the distribution growth rate at WPZ however and some of the things that we might respond to if we did see a commodity collapse it would pull us down -- pull that coverage down of course would be our ability to impact the GP IDRs that we receive.
So we remain very committed to WPZ and the health of WPZ and we think we've got a great model.
And certainly if the pricing environment occurs we're going to be in great shape to continue to increase that dividend at WMB even further.
Of course at the same time WMB will no longer enjoy 100% of the cash flow and earnings it enjoys today.
And as a result you've seen a lowering of WMB's income guidance related to the non-controlling interest that arises in Geismar once it's dropped into WPZ.
So even though the cash flow piece of that looks stronger the -- particularly with the capital burden being shifted over to WPZ the earnings piece of that gets diluted by the issuance of -- to the WPZ LP unit holders.
Additionally as I previously mentioned we have some other updates to our guidance for '13 and '14 including lower revenue growth rates across most of our operating areas that are exposed to natural gas prices as I mentioned.
And although we have some fairly low natural gas price assumptions in place for '13 and '14 you really should not misconstrue that that we have a lack of confidence in the natural gas market.
And in fact I would tell you we're fairly bullish about the long-term demand that we continue to see build for natural gas.
But we also have been impressed with the capabilities of natural gas producers here in the U.S.
to continue to lower their cost of production and so we're balancing that.
We do think it'll take some time for a lot of the big capital that's coming on to build that demand.
But long term I would tell you we're very bullish on seeing this natural gas market continue to expand.
Finally in the prerecorded podcast we provided additional information about exciting new develops in our Canadian and Petchem Services businesses and updates on all of our end-guidance projects most of which are fee based that really continue to demonstrate how Williams is perfectly positioned to take advantage of this long-term super cycle as a trusted name in the development construction and operation of exactly the types of infrastructures needed to realize the full potential for producers and end users of natural gas NGLs and olefins.
So with that I'll open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I think I understand your -- the lower guidance in '14.
I just want to understand a little bit more if you could and I have a follow-up question.
But on the guidance it seems like your commodity price assumptions are roughly the same from the last time you issued guidance.
And so the decrease in earnings seems like a meaningful decrease in volumes.
Can you elaborate a little bit more on what the volume decrease you expect in '14 versus your previous guidance? And I understand it's because of low natural gas prices.
Right.
And I would just say this Faisel that really what we saw -- again how our planning process works is that we start to pull that together in September and we take in input from all across our systems from producers' planned capital for the following year.
Of course it's in their best interests to have us educated on their plans as well because we've got to go build a lot of the infrastructure for those volumes.
And so we've been going through that process in September and I would just tell you that it's really across the board.
And I would tell you if we thought gas prices were going to be $4.50 or $5 in '13 and -- and then we probably would have had a different perspective on that.
But with our assumption of gas prices being at $3.25 for '13 with that assumption embedded we'd have a hard time being more bullish than the producers in terms of their capital plans.
And so we really basically took the capital plans from producers.
Now remember this was -- a lot of their ideas of course were formed over the summer when gas prices were even softer.
So if we do see gas prices rebound we probably would see some more activity and more rigs picked up.
But of course then we would have to raise our gas -- natural gas price if we believed that.
And that would -- of course would come out of the margin for both the NGLs and the olefins margin.
So I think there's a pretty good balance there.
But in general I would tell you that we gather a lot of gas.
And there's just a lot of areas that are exposed to the natural gas price and we're seeing drops in really all of our regions from what we had forecasted earlier in the year based on producers' forecasts that we would have picked up in the first part of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then on the olefins business and the chemicals business.
How are you guys thinking about the distributions at WPZ once you drop these assets in? I mean will some of the distributions be a little bit more of a variable rate? Or were they -- will you have some base level of free cash flows that'll be distributed to unit holders and then the rest will be kind of discretionary sort of use of capital? How are you guys thinking about this cyclical business within WPZ? Yes great question.
And I would say that we do feel like we will need to maintain a coverage ratio there.
Of course one of the things that's heavily impacting our coverage ratio at PZ right now is the amount of growth and amount of equity that we've issued here in 2012.
And so I would say that in a more normal environment with not quite so much leverage to growth in that balance sheet that we would expect to be seeing higher coverage ratios despite even with these lower NGL prices that we're -- that we saw here in the third quarter.
So bottom line is we intend to maintain a coverage ratio there at WPZ and try to let the swings.
Good news is is that there's a lot of cash flow in WPZ and we would expect to let that coverage absorb a lot of those swings.
If that wasn't enough to absorb that then our next move in a more dire environment would be to waive some of the GP IDR if necessary to maintain WPZ's health.
And we'll take our next question from Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on Faisel's question about the volume growth assumptions that go into your guidance.
How -- you mentioned kind of broadly lower gas volumes across geographies.
Would you say that this volume change is enough to impact your longer-term 5 Bcf a day estimate in terms of gas that you handle in the Marcellus? It certainly could in some areas.
I would tell you the areas that are the drier gas are most likely to be the larger part of that impact.
On OBM I would say there might be some delays there.
But currently we're actually increasing that a little bit above in the near term here from what we had in our September -- sorry in our June forecast for that.
So it's really those areas that are just dependent on dry gas volumes and OBM I would say to the degree that is lowered a little bit.
That's going to be from just delays in getting the infrastructure and the drilling activity occurring there.
But we certainly are very excited about what we continue to see in the OBM area in terms of the producers' economics and their activities and the resource there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And as far -- in the Midstream side of the business at WPZ it looked like the OpEx which had ticked up in the second quarter was kind of flat sequentially.
And I was wondering if there are items in there which are transitory in nature or whether we're looking at maybe a kind of higher go-forward operating cost in that business.
This is Rory.
I'd say for the near term across Midstream on operating expenses we're probably pretty flat with '12.
And so in terms of thinking about a run rate -- now that's probably a comment that I'm making for '13.
But we're expecting to be fairly flat with '12 for '13 and then after that there may be some growth.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question.
Could you -- I realize that some of the petrochemical pipelines are making their way down to PZ in conjunction with the Geismar drop-down.
But there -- are there additional assets as part of this Exxon asset package that you've acquired which will remain at WMB for the time being? And maybe if you could just give a breakdown of what percentage of those assets sit at PZ versus MB that would be great.
This is Don.
I could just mention that the assets that we announced the petrochemical assets that we acquired from Exxon will be owned at the Williams level for the time being.
We felt that Williams had more financial capacity to hold those assets while they're being developed than PZ did given the already large array of growth opportunities that PZ was holding.
So that was the primary reason we moved that to Williams rather than WPZ.
But that remains a drop-down opportunity that PZ will likely enjoy at a future date.
And we'll take our next question from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just thinking about the commodity exposure here at the WMB level and the increased investments in Canada.
I'm just wondering how you're thinking about the mix of maybe adding more commodity sensitivity with those additional investments rather than -- and then kind of how you're thinking about what the cash otherwise you could do if there's tax issues with bringing it back and maybe that's part of the reason why you're -- that you're driving more investments in Canada.
Just -- this is Don again.
I would say that again for us to bring back $500 million our cash tax rate would be about 50% so about $250 million of that would be paid to the IRS.
So that's a pretty -- a lot of value leakage.
And the good news is we have some opportunities in Canada that we think are very strong with very high rates of returns.
So if we look at that versus the opportunities here in the U.S.
we just see -- despite the fact there's some commodity volatility we just have higher hurdle rate on those projects such that even in a low-commodity price environment they're still very attractive investments.
And in a more of an expected case it's very strong.
And when you compare that to paying all that cash tax and bringing it back and investing it in an opportunity here in the U.S.
that the Canadian investment despite the fact it's in commodity-sensitive businesses tends to be something that we're interested in.
I think the one area that we're exploring is PDH.
And again we think that propane in Canada is likely to be under tremendous pressure and the margins on that business will likely be very strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I would add to that on the -- this is Alan.
I would add to that as well that the -- for instance the CNRL business the ethane contract that supports that does have a floor for the ethane that's at a cost of service pricing for the ethane.
So there is some contractual support for that risk that we're taking in that expansion up there for both the new ethane capital that we're investing as well as the CNRL expansion.
Research Division</strong> Great got it.
That's great.
And can you talk a little bit on the price that you came to for Geismar? It's -- you could argue it's something of a low multiple for WPZ to pay.
Just kind of how you're thinking was coming to that price.
Sure.
I think the multiple is always dependent on the amount of pricing risk and where you are at a peak or a trough and certainly that is a build-out of a business.
And so today's pricing of course if it was a steady already-existing asset that didn't have a lot of growth in it would deserve a higher multiple for those more sure cash flows.
But I think with the pricing assumption we -- that is our best guess at the pricing assumption that's out there.
But nevertheless that is a peak relative to the market and so we don't think it would deserve such a high multiple.
So a lot of -- as you can imagine a lot of interesting debate amongst the conflicts committee to WPZ and it's -- the folks that support that as well as internally here.
But we think we really hit the right spot for both WMB and WPZ in that transaction.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then you touched on it a little bit.
But maybe talk through a little bit more of your assumptions on the price forecast.
I'm particularly interested in natural gas at $3.25.
It looks like the forward curve is closer to $4 for '13.
And then on ethylene you've got this big jump in '14 going from $0.50 a pound to $0.63.
Kind of what's driving both of those forecasts in your guidance? Sure.
On the gas price I'll hit that first.
I think the gas price yesterday is coming off for year about $3.90 or so up for '13.
And of course that's been moving around quite a bit.
I would just tell you we certainly hope that.
I think for the health of the industry that's a good thing.
But we continue to see supplies grow.
And in fact our forecast of lower volume rates is not showing up currently in our growth rates.
It's continuing to grow.
And so we think that a lot of the demand that we picked up over the summer obviously was very price-dependent growth and you can argue whether that price is $3.50 or $3.75 or $3.25.
You can argue as to where that price that kicks coal out and brings gas in but it's certainly not $4 from our vantage point.
And so I think -- we think that that low that we saw in the natural gas price is pretty temporary and is very price driven.
So we continue to be impressed with the kind of drilling and growth around our systems as we sit here today.
But we think eventually that's got to moderate and obviously that's the -- our reaction to it.
On the ethylene price I would just tell you that the -- what we saw in the -- what we continue to see is really a response between crude oil and ethane.
As you get into '14 we're actually completely -- or almost completely neutral to ethane prices and in fact a little bit short ethane.
So if our ethane price is wrong that'll just show up in ethylene price but we're really just driving that ethylene price off of CMAI forecast and oil prices then.
So that's the best intelligence that we have based on the markets that we're seeing out there.
We'll take our next question from Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
First I apologize I -- there were some competing calls today.
But I just want to clarify the $600 million segment profit plus DD&amp;A for the drop-down is a proportional number? Yes.
Inc.</strong> That's great.
And Don can I stay with you for a minute? Speaking of taxes that have been discussed can you speak to what the tax rate might be on the LP distributions from PZ? Would that be changing at all with the olefins drop-down? And also would there be any potential over time as you invest more CapEx and get more depreciation in Canada for that 50% tax you alluded to to come down? I would say that our cash tax rate moves around a bit depending on when assets were placed in service minimum tax a lot of variables there.
It moves around a bit.
I think from a planning standpoint on this slide we have it here in our dividend illustration.
We've kind of normalized it at about a 25% rate on the distributions from WPZ.
Some years would be higher some are lower.
We've normalized it therefore to take some of the volatility out of it.
I would note that when we issue equity including in the Geismar transaction our effective tax rate goes up.
Because in effect to the extent that we issue units to the public there's an embedded gain there from a tax standpoint.
So it's pretty complex subject.
But I think the way we've modeled it here I think is generally representative with some volatility.
I think you'll some years it could come in sub-20 and some could approach 30%.
As to Canada we've got a negative basis in our foreign assets.
And so the issue there is that to bring cash across the border would trigger a gain and that's a pretty substantial gain at this time.
Inc.</strong> Since they've never been taxed with U.S.
authorities when you reinvest money in the new projects in Canada do you get credit for that when you bring it back? No.
I mean it's -- it comes down to tax basis in all of our international assets.
And again we've got some legacy European and Venezuelan tax positions so it's a big ball that includes a lot of legacy stuff.
So it's going to take some time to unwind that.
There is a -- we do have an embedded 25% tax rate in Canada.
So we are providing taxes and paying Canadian taxes at about a 25% rate on Canadian income.
But it's really that cash balance that we have sitting in Canada or the cash that we might generate is still working against a negative tax basis.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And my last question Alan there were some questions around the changes in expected gathering with natural gas volumes.
You alluded to trying to be a little conservative especially as maybe CPG fuel switching eases off a bit and suggested that some of the numbers may change.
If you're rolling [ph] to a high side maybe the volumes will be greater.
My question is many producers that have alternatives are saying even at $4 gas they're not going back and turning on the spigot.
Because they make just so much more money on the liquids part of the plays that they have that there's a limited amount of capital and they just can't see putting it towards dry gas.
And you all have mentioned him even the Marcellus that some of the prolific dry gas areas are easing off even though there's probably very respectable returns at some of those very good wells today.
Can you speak to whether you really think the volumes will necessarily follow price? Well that's a great question and one that we obviously wrestle with around here on a regular basis and I honestly think it is very dependent on producers' capability.
Certainly not all these basins are created equal.
There's quite a bit differentiation from one -- even in Susquehanna County I will tell you there's a pretty big spread in one part of the county versus others.
And as well I would tell you that some producers are better than others at getting their costs down and as well there's a major variability in terms of what their other options might be and what they're invested in.
And so I would just say it's not as -- the market's not perfectly efficient in that regard.
It is remarkably to -- from my vantage point sometimes I always marvel at how efficient it is particularly this summer the kind of a pickup we saw with low natural gas price on the demand side.
But in the producer side it's not -- not everybody has the same number of options about where they might take the rigs and some are more invested in others in getting their cost structure down in an area.
And so we certainly saw that with our previous ownership of WPX in the Piceance where they had a very low-cost structure in the Piceance.
And we certainly see that in the Marcellus with some players having a much lower cost structure and a -- and lower cash cost than others.
So I would just tell you it's pretty variable out there and I think it's hard to draw it with a broad brush.
And so that's not the way we do it.
We do it kind of from a building it from a ground-up perspective based on all the different input we get from producers in each of our areas and so that's really the -- how we come up with that.
Your next question will come from Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get your thoughts on what's an appropriate coverage ratio for WMB and WPZ longer term? Are you thinking about I guess the figures you outlined in 2014 meaning 1.2x for WMB and 1.1x for WPZ? Sharon it's Don.
I would say it's a complete function of business mix and commodity prices and the growth rate.
Because again as Alan mentioned earlier in the near term we're burdened with an extraordinary growth rate.
We're financing a lot of growth and that means more units out more interest expense with little cash flow.
But if you look at '14 and you look at the ethylene price you can bury that ethylene price and you're going to get a of lot different coverage.
You can move gas price and you're going to get much different coverage.
So I think it's really a function of what you assume on prices.
So the 1.23 is built off the price assumptions we have here price and margin and all the other assumptions.
So if you have lower margin assumptions you'll get lower coverage.
If you have higher you'll get higher.
But again I think it's going to be variable.
Coverage would be variable based on where we are in a commodity cycle and a number of other factors.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess looking at your 2013 guidance for the low end are you comfortable at this point in terms of continue to deliver growth at WPZ and distributions and have a negative coverage given the cash flow visibility in 2014? Can you maybe just talk about that? I'd say we still have positive coverage in 2013 based on our guidance though.
Yes we are comfortable.
Obviously there's business risks including commodities that we'll face and there's upside opportunities.
But at this point we're comfortable with our guidance as being what we're certainly targeting and we think that it's realistic.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the last question's just any operational impact of Sandy on your northeast operations at this point in time? Frank do you want to take that? Yes I'll -- this is Frank Ferazzi.
I'll take that question.
We did lose purchased power in many of our compressor stations in New York and New Jersey and parts of Pennsylvania.
But at those stations we have backup generation capability that's powered by natural gas.
So there's no disruption to flows.
We do have our LNG facility that's located close to the water.
And so we anticipated that we may get some minor flooding and that did in fact happen.
So in anticipation of that we took the facility down on Sunday.
We did in fact get some water.
But once the facility dried down and we pumped a couple of feet of water away we're not expecting any permanent damage there.
No leaks on the system no other disruptions in flow.
And so I think on balance we fared remarkably well.
We're going to have to remove some trees from the right of way some fences were blown down.
But again no permanent damage to the facilities and no disruption in flow.
And we'll take our next question from Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> On the gas pipelines it just looks like the EBITDA's a little bit -- or the EBIT's just coming in a little bit lower than at least we were expecting despite some double-digit increases in throughput.
Can you talk about what you see going on in that business? And then just given where you are year-to-date do you still think you're going to meet the low end of your guidance? Yes.
Becca this is Rick Rodekohr.
In the third quarter we did see some higher expenses at our gas pipelines.
Those were driven principally by the Pipeline Safety Act.
As you know we have to complete testing on our system by the end of 2012.
So we're certainly on track to do that.
But as we get near the end of that period we did have some higher integrity and testing costs that we did see in the third quarter.
And then we also saw some higher benefit costs related to our pensions and our post-retiree medical expenses.
So those were the primary drivers I think of the lower results in the third quarter.
We are on track to hit the guidance that we have given for 2012.
Research Division</strong> That would -- I mean that would imply a really big fourth quarter of close to $200 million versus $178 million a year ago.
So what's really driving that? Well we have some additional revenues from expansion projects that we put in service earlier in 2012.
So we'll get revenues from there.
And then we do have some projects that we look at expensing those dollars until they reach a level of probability.
And so to the extent that we have some projects that move down the development path we'd have some opportunities to reverse some expenses there as well.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then on the Caiman Utica JV any status updates on that? This is Alan.
I would just say there's a lot going on there.
We're not in a position to announce anything new on there but very pleased with the opportunities that are coming forward on that.
So stay tuned on there.
Research Division</strong> And then on shared services you guys talked about a new shared services undertaking in your second quarter 10-Q and then had a charge for reorganization in the third quarter.
Is there more to come on that? And what kind of benefit do you see to Williams as a result of this? Yes great question Becca.
There has been a lot of efforts around the organization on that.
And frankly we were responding to overhead costs as one item that came at us from the spin-off of WPX and so trying to make sure that our overhead costs are in line with the size of the company and the complexity of the company today.
And so we are going through a process of taking out some layers of management across the organization.
But as well I would tell you very much on the positive side we are bringing a lot of alignment and a lot of focus around our engineering and construction capabilities as well as getting the customer voice from all of these various areas right up to the leadership table and getting that as close to our actions as possible.
So a lot of very positive things coming out of this where we're really trying to get more of our resources focused on our areas of opportunity.
And when I say that I'm talking about people resources that are really focused on where our frontline opportunities whether it's growing out our business on the E&amp;C side or being able to be very responsive to customers' needs as this infrastructure build-out continues to really amaze us; in fact in terms the amount of demands and opportunities that are in front of us.
So we're really trying to position the organization to be more responsive to the kind of build-out that's ahead of us and we continue to enjoy.
Research Division</strong> Do you have a financial impact in terms of incremental savings or incremental costs? We have not.
We don't have a final number to put forward on that yet Becca.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on EBITDA guidance.
It looks for the base business it's coming down and you talked about the gathering volumes.
But we're also seeing CapEx for the base business come up once we net out the numbers for Geismar.
So what is that higher CapEx related to on the base business? Is this on WPZ Becca? I didn't follow that.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
If you want I can wait announce that on the PC call.
We'll get back to you on that sorry.
One item there Becca that I can think of that's in there is the gumbo [ph] acquisition and the capital that's driving that is a piece of that at Williams.
And so...
Some of it is timing that we've shifted some capital from '12 to '13 and the timing of some other projects have moved around as well.
So we'll dig out the detail here and advise you if not on the call after the call.
And we'll take our final question from Carl Kirst of BMO Capital Markets.
Just a quick question on the Petchem pipeline initiative.
And I guess my question is is since you guys have some of a first-mover advantage here as we look at the return profile of that capital being deployed should we be looking there in the sort of the return profile of a normal kind of fee-based contracted pipeline asset? Or is there the opportunity to earn perhaps significantly higher returns for that capital? Yes.
Carl good question.
And I would -- we didn't get it -- given all the other moving parts we've had in this earnings call we haven't had a chance to focus very much on that.
But I think we've forecasted that in the past in terms of our bullishness around the need for infrastructure as the Petchem business grows out from all the new NGLs coming into the market there.
And we are more convinced than ever that that is the case and there's going to be a lot of infrastructure.
We've made 3 acquisitions from pipelines that we are converting the service on here in the last 10 months or so and have been doing that fairly quietly as we want to make sure we've got the business contracted for that business.
But in terms of return expectations I can tell you that it does vary according to risk.
But I would say probably on average it's between about 14% and 20% pretax returns on those capital investments.
And we have no further questions at this time.
Okay great.
I will close it up here.
Thank you all very much for joining us.
Very excited about our future.
A lot of moving parts happening in this quarter.
And I want to reiterate that we are very committed to maintaining the health of WPZ as you -- as I think we've demonstrated with the Geismar drop-down.
And frankly we -- as we've been forecasting for quite some time we were concerned and had been concerned about the ethane supply getting out and ahead of the cracker capacity.
We certainly think our Geismar expansion is very timely and is going to be able to take great advantage of new ethane supplies ahead of -- in the other cracker expansions.
And so -- but we think eventually the petchem market is going to respond to the huge amount of NGLs that producers are going after today.
So we're excited to be in this space and excited about the growth opportunities that are out for us really across-the-board in our business today.
So really feel very good about the growth prospects that lie before us in the company.
And we've got a lot of to execute on but very confident in our team's ability to do that.
So with that we'll close it up.
And once again thank you very much and good luck in your recovery if you've been impacted by Hurricane Sandy.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
Thank you and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Glynne.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our websites williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases with related schedules and the accompanying Analyst Packages; a presentation discussing these results guidance updates and growth opportunities with related audio commentary from our President and CEO Alan Armstrong; and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
This morning Alan will make a few comments and then we will open the discussion up for Q&amp;A.
Rory Miller is here from our Midstream business; Frank Ferazzi is here from our Gas Pipeline business; and our CFO Don Chappel is also available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that's been reconciled back to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Thank you John and thanks to all of you on the phone and webcast who have joined us this morning.
I'm certainly looking forward to your questions.
Before we open up the phone lines I want to take the opportunity to briefly touch on a few key themes for the Williams and Williams Partners investment story.
In short we are rewarding investors now with strong dividend and cash distribution growth through the guidance period and we are expanding our business to create continuing value growth in a very resilient future dividend and distribution growth.
First let's take a look at our fourth quarter performance.
We turned in solid results in line with our third quarter guidance despite a natural gas liquids margin environment that dropped even faster than we expected.
To give some scale to that drop and to the headwinds we were facing it's important to understand that our fourth quarter NGL margins were down 46% from the prior year margins took another 8% hit from what we thought were low third quarter levels; and from a financial perspective our fourth quarter NGL margins were off about $75 million compared just to the midpoint of the forecast that we shared at the third quarter results.
Much of this didn't show up in the unit margin because we didn't produce ethane when it was in the negative margin territory.
So what you saw there is a little bit higher unit margin than you might have expected but lower volumes as a result of that ethane rejection.
We provide some detail in our slides regarding the positions that allowed us to overcome these very low NGL margins but here are some of the highlights there.
First we're successfully growing our fee-based revenues in this business for Williams Partners.
In the Midstream segment we generated fourth quarter fee-based revenues 18% higher than a year ago.
For both the Midstream and gas pipeline business we generated fee-based revenues that were up 5% from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.
And second we continue to benefit from the natural hedge against ethane exposure that our Olefins business creates.
Williams Partners benefited in the last 2 months of 2012 with the acquisition of the Olefins business and there is even greater benefit for WPZ ahead with the well-timed expansion of the Geismar facility expected in service later this year.
This combination supports our ability to reward investors with strong growth in cash dividends and cash distributions.
We are reaffirming our guidance at midpoint to grow Williams' cash dividend by some 20% with this year and -- for both this year and next year.
And for Williams Partners we are reaffirming our guidance at midpoint to increase the cash distributions we pay unitholders by approximately 9% in both '13 and '14.
When we add our large platform of growth capital projects and the rapid growth in cash distributions we're expecting from a recent investment in Access Midstream what you'll have is a value-creation engine that is powerful durable and resilient and will continue to grow for many years to come.
In our earnings announcements yesterday afternoon you also saw that we are lowering our 2013 and '14 earnings and cash flow guidance.
We expect the growth in our fee-based business will partially offset the effect of sharply lower ethane and propane prices and ethylene prices in '14.
And we will see Williams Partners benefiting from the late 2012 acquisition of Williams' Olefins business and a significant expansion of our Geismar facility in the fourth quarter.
And I also would remind you that we have quite a bit of collared contracts that are expiring here in the first quarter of '13 and of course those allow us to get even better exposed to the weak ethane price and continue our short position at Geismar there on ethane.
Our coverage at WPZ is certainly being impacted by the heavy load of investing about $12 billion in growth capital during the 3-year period from '12 through '14.
But we're deploying that capital towards a vast array of great growth projects across our operating areas from the Marcellus and Utica Shales in Canada to the Eastern Seaboard and the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
These are projects that we know and understand many are well into the construction phase and the essential ingredient in these value-creating projects is largely within our reach it's our execution.
If I can direct you for future reference to Slide 13 in the quarterly presentation materials that are posted on our websites you'll see here exactly where we are spending that $12 billion and when exactly it begins to contribute to our cash flows.
I think you'll agree that these projects are very strategic they are large scale and they move us even more significantly toward a business mix dominated by a revenue stream that can support strong continued growth in dividends and distributions and these growth investments largely start contributing in meaningful value in 2015 and beyond.
So there is much good yet to come with these major strategic investments that we continue to invest heavily into.
This natural gas infrastructure super cycle is creating tremendous opportunities for North America our industry and importantly for Williams and Williams Partners.
We are aggressively pursuing and executing on these opportunities to deliver shareholder value for years to come and we remain committed to the idea that there is a lot of value associated with this large-scale infrastructure.
Now let's open the phone lines and I'll let others on our executive leadership team help answer your questions this morning.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> How are you guys planning to fund the coverage shortfall at WPZ in '13? Is it going to be with debt or are you going to do IDR waivers? And can you just remind me what has been disclosed to date for IDR waivers is it $105 million in '13 and $16 million in '14? Christine this is Don Chappel.
In terms of the exact funding plan we've not disclosed that but we do have a lot of flexibility around that.
It will be a combination of debt and equity.
Certainly Williams is well positioned to support WPZ in many ways.
But we have no additional IDR waivers contemplated at this time.
The IDR waivers that are currently have been granted are very modest and I think you mentioned those numbers and they just go out for 2 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just talk about what your plans are for the extra cash at WMB otherwise? Especially with the...
We have a number of investment opportunities in the NGL pipeline Petchem pipeline space where Alan has laid out our strategy earlier about building that business and Alan can speak to that again.
So that's an opportunity.
And the balance we have some flexibility.
And so we'll look at the facts and circumstances to determine what the best use of that excess cash is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give a little more detail about how the investment in ACMP brought your cash taxes to 0 in '13 and 10% in '14? Sure.
Our investment -- again there is an allocation for tax purposes.
The inside basis at ACMP did not change.
Our investment was allocated between hard assets and intangibles.
In terms of the hard assets they enjoy accelerated depreciation.
And the intangibles enjoy straight line depreciation.
But it's really the depreciation of that investment that's creating a very large tax deduction for us which over the next few years will significantly lower our tax rate.
In addition the January '13 fiscal cliff legislation included an extension of bonus depreciation.
And given the large amount of capital that we continue to invest that's pretty significant as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I noticed that your Geismar expansion the start date was pushed back by a quarter.
Can you talk about what's going on there? I'll address that now and I'll ask maybe Rory to hit a little harder on that.
We really didn't push it back as much as -- that's not really the cause of the drop in volumes there.
But we are giving ourselves some room for the tie-ins and some expanded tie-in work on there.
So I would just say we're being fairly conservative and knowing that when you go to start up a facility like that often there is bobbles and interruptions as you try to do that and we're planning for that rather than explaining that later.
So that's really the purpose for that but really the startup is still scheduled right into the October time frame.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you talked about how you started to recently see ethane rejection during the fourth quarter.
How much did you reject in 4Q? And then also you've talked about how you're assuming that all your equity volumes are going to be rejected in the first quarter of '13 what does your guidance assume for the rest of the year? Yes let me take a look at that on fourth quarter.
I know in the first quarter of '13 we've got rejection planned for the entire period.
But if you can hang on just a second here.
The fourth quarter yes looks like we had about 2 to 3 weeks in December of ethane rejection.
This is Don Chappel just related to that I'd just refer you to Slide #8 in our deck that illustrates the declining ethane margin with lower frac spreads but the widening crack margin at Geismar.
And I'd note there that at our assumed about $0.06 of margin there that equates to about -- I think it's $27 million of remaining ethane margins.
So we have very little ethane exposure left.
And in fact as ethane prices go lower that $27 million does not include the benefit of Geismar's margins expanding.
So if you look at the sensitivities in our data book you can get some sense of the combined effect.
But again there is only $27 million of total ethane margin assumed in 2013.
In our data book we have the same slide for 2014 and you'll see with the Geismar expansion while the ethane margin is assumed to be a bit wider the Geismar expansion completely mitigates that.
And I think I've mentioned to some investors before if ethane prices go to the point that we are in full rejection and go even lower then we've taken all the pain on the ethane margin and then Geismar starts to see even greater gains as its costs go down.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then the last question for me.
This is more of an accounting question.
But how are you calculating the adjusted segment profit for Access Midstream Partners? Is that just net income that you expect at ACMP and multiply it by your ownership? It just seems a little light.
I'm just trying to figure out do the Class C units participate in earnings but not the Class B is that how that works? Our proportionate share of their equity earnings and then again our purchase price was allocated in part to intangibles.
Some of the intangibles are contracts and we have depreciation or amortization of that.
That totaled about $65 million in both '13 and '14.
So  [indiscernible] earnings are reduced by that amortization expense and you can see from a cash flow standpoint if you add that back you get to a segment profit plus DD&amp;A or an EBITDA number.
Our pro rata share it's $65 million higher than the earnings.
So I think we are on in terms of our share from more of a cash flow perspective segment profit plus DD&amp;A so that's not actually the distribution but is $103 million in '13 $160 million in '14.
We'll take our next question from Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First maybe start with the macro.
Can you just give us a little color on what you're seeing right now in the ethane and propane markets? And anything maybe nearer term that could drive pricing? You probably know better than most that most of the E&amp;Ps right now are forecasting ethane rejection for most of 2013.
Yes I think the market on the ethane side continues to struggle to balance itself with a lot of new projects coming on continuing to come on major NGL pipelines major fractionators continuing to come on that will continue to provide plenty of supply into a market that is going to be slow to grow.
I think obviously with our expansion and other expansions we'll see a little bit of growth this year.
But in -- it's probably a couple years out before we really see the market try to catch up with all that supply on the ethane side.
So we really don't see a lot of upside.
For us the best thing that can happen for us is probably volatility here in '13.
And then a weak -- a very weak ethane price in '14.
And if that happens then we'll have some upside to what we have forecasted here for '13 and '14.
On the propane side I would say the fundamentals are a little more positive there.
Certainly a lot of cracking going on right now.
Propane is at a price that is encouraging.
A lot of cracking of propane and our crackers running rich and probably any other light-end crackers running rich and running propane in it right now as much as they can because propylene prices are so high that that's making that a favored feedstock.
So that combined with hopefully some larger export facilities coming on later this year I think that will start to balance the fundamentals a little better on propane.
So I would say a little bit of upside to propane but still that market has a lot of supply still available in it.
I would say this that there is a lot of propane that is on the market that can be trucked and railed and so forth that is already in the market supply versus ethane that is being rejected and not on the supply scene.
Said another way when a lot of these big NGL pipelines come online they're going to have the capacity for ethane but a lot of that propane is already getting captured in local fractionators and being trucked and railed.
So it won't be as large of an incremental supply into the market when that infrastructure comes online.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just sticking with propane.
What's the latest on the PDH project? We're very excited about that project.
A lot of things coming together quickly on it.
And we've been -- we've contracted with an engineering firm to do a feed study on it.
And I would say we look forward to accelerating the decision on that project with continued strong fundamentals for low propane prices in Canada with very little outlet for the propane out of Canada and as well a lot of interest in the propylene supplies that we already have.
As you recall from our Redwater fractionator and splitter we already have a pretty large propylene supply there this would add to that and starts to get to a level that it could attract derivative investment downstream which would really be a homerun for us because it would take that rail -- some of that rail cost out that we're investing in today into the Gulf Coast.
Research Division</strong> So maybe a decision by year-end? Oh I would say it would be quite a bit sooner than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I appreciate the additional Marcellus-related detail on your systems and expansion plans.
I guess bigger picture what are the production bottlenecks today? Yes.
I would say that for the most part it is around liquids particularly for instance in the wet Marcellus and in the West Virginia area.
That production has a lot more condensate and is a lot richer than really anybody I think expected -- certainly we expected it anyway speaking for ourselves and I think for the producers as well.
And so a lot of the facilities there really haven't been designed to be able to handle all those liquids.
So there's a lot of redo work going on up there and there is a lot of production that is sitting waiting behind infrastructure on both our facilities and other people's facilities as well.
And so we're working hard to overcome that.
But I can tell you that we have a lot of frustrated producers sitting behind our production.
And obviously we're anxious to get things remedied and bring it online as well.
But there is a significant amount of production that is curtailed either by a lack of connection or in some cases just unreliable operations where the pipelines continue to fill up with liquids and shut in the gas production.
Research Division</strong> And is there more volume on a particular system of yours that's backed up? Yes.
The Ohio Valley Midstream is really the one that's curtailed the other systems are running fairly well.
We have had a few struggles in getting the Laser pipeline up and running.
And so we've had a little bit of curtailed volume in the Northeast.
But as you can see it's not curtailing it a lot because you can see how fast the volumes have come up 80% year-on-year there.
So hard to say it's heavily curtailed but there is some curtailment there on the north end of the Laser system.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one I promise.
Just a cleanup.
What was your 4Q ethylene cracker spread? And then the full year as well that you realized? Randy you want to take that? Just a moment I'll look that up so we can come back with a...
Holly was the question what our ethylene crack spread was at Geismar? Research Division</strong> Yes for 4Q and then full year if you have got it.
And that's it for me so you can pass it on.
Full year was $0.40.
I don't know what -- just the quarter was but I think the full year spread was $0.40.
We'll take our next question from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I understand all the issues surrounding lower commodity prices and I appreciate the comments last night in your podcast on the constraints you're having in the Marcellus.
I was wondering if you could quantify some of those constraints.
It seems like if I -- if we look at your presentations in the past versus the presentation you put out last night that your volume assumptions for 2013 out of the Marcellus and Utica are lower than what you guys had anticipated previously when you looked at these assets last year.
Can you quantify for us exactly what's going on? And then I have a follow-up question to that.
Sure.
I'll ask Frank Billings to take that question.
Yes this is Frank Billings.
I'd say if we were going to quantify today the volume kind of curtailment issues that we're having in the Ohio Valley I could put that at about 100 million to 150 million a day of volume that we have that the producers could be producing into our gathering systems.
For the forecast period we're moving our volumes back to address kind of both the operating issues that were experienced in OVM and then certain producers drilling investment to better align their drilling dollars with getting the best net backs for commodities produced.
So I think that's the things driving our volume forecast today in that part of the Northeast.
Research Division</strong> If I'm looking at your own '13 and '14 guidance for volumes you'd say that those numbers have been curtailed by about 150 a day? Well I think that's what's hitting us today.
Our expectation is that we would be getting those volumes back online.
But we have some operational things we need to solve and some asset modifications that we have to make at some of the central receipt points in the field so that we can get that volume flowing.
But that volume's available to us today we just have to get some of our assets better situated to handle the condensate volumes and get the -- so that we can get the production flowing consistently.
Yes.
I would say in general there we are very encouraged with the resource and the value it can deliver to the producers.
But there are a lot of infrastructure constraints including both the upstream side and as well the downstream market side.
So us continuing to develop infrastructure for the NGL market outlets and the condensate outlets is critical to the success of the producers.
And so I think even though there's already this amount of production sitting and waiting I don't think they'll continue to drill so robustly if we don't start to provide the market outlets up there in an unconstrained way and we're certainly working very rapidly on that.
So a lot of great opportunity.
The good news is it's a great resource.
And I would just say it's even better than most people thought and therefore it is requiring some -- pretty rapid expansions on the market outlets and the upstream infrastructure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Alan do you worry about basis kind of narrowing in the Marcellus and Columbia pool area? It seems like we've basically gotten close to parity to Hub and in some situations it looks like we actually moved into a negative basis in that region? Do you worry about that and that kind of crimping production volume growth? Well I think what you'll see -- I think it will be hard to see what the actual basis differential.
But the answer to your question is yes we've got to continue to open up market outlets for both the gas and the liquids.
But I would tell you right now probably the liquids is the bigger driver on that.
But I think what you really are going to see are kind of inter-regional spikes.
And so it's not just what you could see as a East Dominion price or a Columbia price.
It's really going to boil down to inter-regional prices and what pipes people are actually getting paid.
Now if they have firm transport out of the area and they get into Zone 6 on Transco that's a beautiful thing right now for somebody but obviously that capacity is limited.
And so I would just say I think it's very very spotty up there.
And I don't think those basis differentials really tell us the whole story for what producers are getting for their gas right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Western volumes.
Is anything changed in your guidance or expectations in the West for this year versus what you had expected previously? Yes pretty limited change on that I believe and continued -- I would say the one thing that I'm aware of that's changed is -- and certainly embedded in our guidance at this point though -- is we did have a lot of production froze off in the first quarter not from our facilities for the most part but certainly producer freeze off in the San Juan Basin and some in the Wamsutter area and so we certainly saw some impact here in the first quarter on fee-based volumes there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me.
On the quarterly comments that you have in your press release you talked about earnings being impacted by increased cost and lower NGL margins.
Can you just give us an idea of what you're talking about what you mean by increased costs? Well certainly getting all these businesses started up is a heavy load developing a lot of these projects is a heavy load.
So for instance you'll see a little spike in cost in Canada for instance and a lot of that of course is in developing a project like a PDH project.
And so we've got a lot of upfront development expenses.
You'll notice that we're pretty conservative how we book that.
You'll notice in the fourth quarter in the gas pipeline segment we took a $19 million reduction in expense that basically was expenses that we had on capital projects earlier that we don't capitalize until we know that project's going to come through.
And so in other words we expensed those and hold them in an account until we're sure the project's approved and permitted.
And so that's where some of that kind of expense is from.
So when we've got a big heavy capital budget like we have right now a lot of the expenses in developing those projects weigh heavy against our expense line until those projects are capitalized.
Research Division</strong> And would you say that those higher expenses are running through your numbers right now are higher than what you guys had previously envisioned in your last guidance? I don't think there's too much more than what was in the last guidance maybe on the PDH project.
But again if we approve that this year then that expense gets capitalized moving forward so...
Just to be clear the phenomenon that Alan mentioned in the fourth quarter is unique to our regulated gas pipeline business where in that business you expense it until you have a probable asset.
And then once it becomes probable you can actually capitalize previously expensed projects.
In the nonregulated business you expense it and then when you have a probable project you expense going forward.
But you can't go back and call it reclaim what you previously expensed.
We'll go next to Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on -- and I realize that it's a similar question to one that's been asked already.
But when you talk about the volume impacts the limited volume impacts between the guidance provided on the third quarter call and the guidance provided for the fourth quarter.
Can you quantify in terms of either segment profit or EBITDA the expected impact from volumetric declines either in the Western or the Eastern portions of the Midstream business on segment profit or EBITDA in '13 and '14? Yes.
I think in the -- I think the 150 or so that Frank talked about along with some other small things I think it's about $85 million maybe $80 million to $120 million in total there is about what's in there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And one of the I guess notes in the presentation when you announced the Access transaction and mentioned again in your fourth quarter materials is the potential NGL pipeline project out of the Marcellus.
And I guess I'd be interested in your thoughts about how a heavy NGL pipeline out of the Northeast might potentially impact demand for local fractionation? And to the extent that a pipeline might reduce the demand for local kind of Northeast-sided fractionation how a potential pipeline project maybe underwritten by Chesapeake volumes would impact your plans for the development of the Caiman or the Ohio Valley Midstream assets? Yes that is an excellent question.
And I'll tell you we have a very good vantage point as you can imagine given our investment in ACMP and our investment in Blue Racer.
We have a very good vantage point up there right now around the degree of fractionation and the degree of liquids that's available from this area.
And I would just tell you I don't think that local fractionation is the answer up here.
It is certainly going to overwhelm these markets and something large-scale is going to need to be built.
And even frankly as it supports an ethylene cracker that Shell has announced and others have talked about that also -- having a big Raw Make line provides a lot of flexibility in terms of ethane access back and forth between those markets.
And so we think that something definitely needs to be done there and we're working very hard on that.
You heard Don mention earlier when asked about what we were going to do with all the extra cash at WMB and based on both continued cash distributions as well as -- I think when you do the math on it you'll see there's quite a bit of extra cash distribution there particularly in '13 and '14 given the tax rate and the performance in Canada.
And so that is a very interesting place for us right now and I'll tell you we have teams working that very hard and it's not as simple as just building a Raw Make pipeline into the Gulf Coast.
There's a tremendous amount of issues about where you land that product and having the distribution network to distribute that product into the market and into big market outlets as we go forward.
And so I think if it was just as simple as just a Raw Make pipeline we'd probably be past that at this point.
But there's quite a bit of work we're doing on the distribution and storage end.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And given your comments that fractionation will likely overwhelm local demand in the Northeast does that make your Ohio Valley development more biased to focusing on just de-ethanization opportunities or maybe less focused on the fractionation and more focused on the gathering and processing side of things? This is Frank Billings.
I'd say it's a very good question.
I think what we see relative to your fractionation investment is that Williams will still have the opportunity to make those fractionation investments.
I think what we're really evaluating is the market location for those fractionation investments.
The producers that we have behind our OVM assets are going to be looking for a portfolio of markets to get into.
And I think we are well-positioned to provide local market opportunities for those producers that want to have access to those markets but then I think we're also going to be able to provide Gulf Coast markets and Gulf Coast access.
So we're trying to position the producers such that they can maximize the value of their net back and we feel like we'll still be able to make those investments it may just be in different markets.
We are looking at -- behind OVM and we think in this market place in the Northeast we think there's opportunities to have some customized solutions or customized infrastructure investments that allow Shell and others that are looking at chemical expansions to have the ethane that they need and give them ethane supplies certainty so they can make their investments.
And then we're looking at producers in Canada that want to have the condensates.
So we're looking at ways to consolidate our commodities such that they can have access to those.
And then obviously the local market we'll look at -- to propanize our investments to the extent that the propanization option makes sense.
But with access to the Gulf Coast you're going to see -- you're going to start to see those different commodities being sold into those markets based on the best net back at that time.
And I think what we're doing with the NGL infrastructure is providing the best opportunities for our producers.
And we think that's advantageous for them long-term but it also I think it allows for us to place some pretty strategic investments in that area as well as the Gulf Coast.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question for me.
Given the fact that you guys have made moves in say Western Canada to take an area that's long propane and create your own solution to that with the PDH facility.
When you look at the Northeast really Williams is pretty uniquely positioned in the sense that you are probably the only operator either midstream or upstream up there who's got the know-how who's got the access to liquids volumes on the upstream side as well as the know-how to execute an olefins or petrochemical project.
Given the fact that I'd say the noises out of Shell it sounds like they're probably a little bit more slow-moving and conservative than folks who are long ethane producers who are long ethane in the Northeast would like.
Isn't there an opportunity for Williams to get involved on the petrochemical side and maybe preempt a third-party petrochemical project by building your own or JV-ing with one of those companies? Yes.
I would just say first of all our focus on the petchem side is to continue to provide market outlet for both our product and for our producers' product and not to go headlong into the petrochemical business.
And so I think it's always important to remember that that we see that as a great hedge to our business and we think it's important -- an important part of a midstream company's role today with all the independent producers that we have to develop the infrastructure and the market outlets.
And so while 20 years ago you would've seen the majors developing all of that infrastructure and all of that market outlet ahead -- or in concert with developing a big resource we think it's the role today of the major midstream players to do that.
And so it's not out of the question but I would just tell you that we have looked at it and looked at it and we think all of the investment required in storage particularly underground storage -- which as you can imagine is a challenge in the Northeast -- and all of the derivative market for all the product that's already interconnected in the Gulf Coast is quite a bit to overcome.
And so we certainly aren't the chemical players that Shell Chemical is and certainly wouldn't doubt their understanding of that market.
But from our standpoint we'd have to get way into a lot of other derivative markets and so forth to overcome that.
And so for us we think the simplest way is to get some of that product into markets that are expanding.
And frankly we look forward to working with Shell to help provide supplies -- as that is another market outlet as well and we certainly intend to be connected with that if they go forward with that project.
And we'll go next to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to this question on the use of cash at WMB.
And if you look at I guess Page 83 of the data book you've got about $2.32 of cash flow you're going to generate even before the Canadian operations but paying out $1.75.
If I just kind of play back what I've heard it sounds like your preference is to reinvest that excess cash flow into infrastructure rather than paying it out maybe even say a special dividend or whatnot? Maybe you can just walk us through how you're thinking about that excess cash flow? Ted this is Don.
Yes I think we would prefer to reinvest it.
We think that it's certainly in terms of a dividend -- to increase the dividend on the back of accelerated depreciation with knowledge that the rate's going to go up in a couple of years is really not that sustainable.
Obviously we expect to have much higher cash flows in a couple of years but nonetheless just with the opportunity set that we see in front of us I think we've talked a lot about -- Alan just put a voice to the opportunities we see around the NGL side of the business.
We think that that capital is -- could be strategically invested at very attractive rates of return.
And we think that will really provide greater value for investors long-term.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Next question was just on the WPZ and the cash distribution.
I mean we are forecasting sort of just over 1x in 2014 and you made I think a comment in the press release about getting back to normal levels.
I mean how are you seeing where you want normal levels for coverage to be understanding that we've got sort of weaker propane prices and NGL margins and whatnot but I'm just trying to figure out where we ought to think about as a normalized coverage ratio target? I would comment that we would like to see the coverage at or above 1 over an extended period of time.
I'll remind you over 2010 2011 we were operating at kind of 1.3x 1.4x coverage.
So if you take the 2 very strong years and then if you take '12 and our current guidance on '13 you still end way above 1.
So again I think there will be ups and downs in coverage.
As you'll recall when we had coverage up in the 1.3x 1.4x range a lot of investors and analysts were suggesting that we should raise the distribution and we said it's high because margins are high and we want to be in a position that when margins roll back -- and they will because they always do and then they'll go back up -- that we're not under too much stress or strain.
So we really look at it on a longer-term basis.
So I think longer-term we'd like to be 1 or better.
And if we are better than 1 we're pretty happy about that.
And I would add to that.
It's certainly -- if we saw this as a business that wasn't growing and we had that kind of coverage that would be one thing.
But we certainly see it transitory in nature and we certainly put a lot of equity into this business and funding a lot of this cash flow that's very -- that's yet to come on in terms of driving our distribution.
And so I think we feel very good about where we are and as Don said we're -- we really look to the long-term.
But I think to answer your question we certainly if we were in a steady state kind of environment we would want to be in the 1x to 1.10x range if we were in a steady state environment.
And certainly our business mix will be a factor of that.
As you know we are moving more and more to a fee-based portfolio and as well access is entirely fee-based and as the cash distributions back to Williams grow off Access that will further shift us toward fee.
And then it's a question of what kind of margins we enjoy.
If we're in a low-margin cycle the coverage will be tighter and if we're in a high-margin cycle it'll be more robust.
But I think the business mix and you have to think about Access as a contributor to that as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one just small one for me.
You talked about the attractive economics of running propane versus ethane.
Just how much can you run through Geismar sort of an ethane-propane mix if we think about that? Yes.
We can run about 30% on a inlet volume basis in propane.
We'll go next to Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
At this point I just have a few clarifying questions if I could.
And maybe the first is just on Ohio Valley and the 150 million a day that was referenced of delay.
I didn't catch -- is that something that we'll sort of see kind of a consistent delay through 2013 and 2014? Or by 2014 for instance should the challenges of getting the right equipment in place be surpassed where we don't have any of those curtailments in that $80 million to $120 million of EBITDA Alan I believe you referenced won't be dragging anymore.
Can I just get a little bit of clarification on that? Sure this is Frank again.
That 100 -- that volume that I referenced that's volume that we know is available to us today.
It's actually produced volume that's just behind our system and we feel we're going to get the majority of those operational issues resolved in the second quarter.
So we're hoping that we have that volume flowing freely to our Fort Beeler facility and through our fractionation assets in 2013.
So really it's really on us to make certain that we get through the operating and asset issues that we've been dealing with over the last few months and we get the assets stabilized and when we do that we'll have a nice base business for 2013 and we will be able to grow forward from there per the guidance.
Great.
So we actually have the -- or in the guidance the volume is actually coming back call it by midyear then? Midyear to the end of the year.
And I think the challenge is all the time we're doing that of course there's new volumes being drilled.
And so we constantly will be in a catch-up mode for some time.
I think it's important to note though if you look at Laurel Mountain we've been at that for a while now and we are now ahead of Chevron finally out there in terms of capacity.
We're getting close to being there while I would say we're going to be on a treadmill for a long time in the Northeast with Cabot and some of the other produces there.
I would say we're pretty well at pace with those producers right now and we just -- things have moved faster in OVM particularly again from a liquids production standpoint both in terms of richer gas and higher degrees of condensates.
So I think we're very confident in our ability to catch up but I would just say given the productivity of those reserves we're going to be on a treadmill there for a long long time to come.
And likely we'll be having some lagging excess capacity or excess production held behind our infrastructure for quite a while.
And Alan if I could just as a follow-up on that -- I guess the producer frustration is all of this in effect call it industry rich gas related? Has there been any execution-type of issues where Williams has stubbed its toe? I just want to make sure there's no risk of brand franchise bruising for instance? I'll let Frank take that but I'll just tell you we're not the only one struggling up there.
I think about anybody if they're honest with you would tell you that what's going on up there is a lot of this.
And as well the producers are having their own issues upstream of our facilities as well.
And Frank I don't know if you want to add some color to that? Sure.
I would say the issues that we've had have been mostly around our field receipt points and obviously those are vital to getting the production into our gathering systems and ultimately into our processing assets.
We've not completed those installations as timely as we would've liked and then we have experienced inconsistent operations and reliability as production has come back up to those facilities.
Again for 2013 I think our key operating issue for us is going to be to optimize and stabilize the current assets that we have in place and have the facilities better matched to the gas quality of the production.
No one really knows with certainty the composition until it's actually produced and I think we've experienced some mismatched facilities to the production and the -- and what we're seeing out there.
So the reserves are there obviously I think the producers would be producing more.
But we have to reliably handle the production and move the production for these producers.
Understood.
And maybe just last question Don just a clarification on the cash tax guidance and understanding what's happened has been a benefit both of ACMP as well as legislation on bonus depreciation.
Is it possible to attribute that in any way 90% to ACMP 10% to the legislation? I mean if we were trying to basically ascribe a benefit if you will even prior to legislation from the purchase price for instance of ACMP -- this is real value you guys are getting.
Is there any way to do that? I'd say both are significant.
I couldn't give you the number -- the exact number off hand but if you're interested in trying to learn more about that I encourage you to call John and Sharna and they can try to help you estimate the number.
But they're both pretty significant.
And we'll go next to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> I had a couple of questions.
If we could kind of dig a little deeper into the Petchem Services at the MB level it's got the distinction of being kind of a growth opportunity that if you had 7x investments EBITDA maybe having $100 million of EBITDA in a couple of years and can be dropped down because it's in the States.
Can you discuss kind of the long-term vision of that and at what point in parts or in whole a drop-down might make sense? Certainly that would make a lot of sense I don't think there would be really any prohibition to the majority of the investments that we're making there from being qualified income.
And certainly we feel like WPZ is pretty full on capital opportunity right now.
And so WPZ is well-positioned to do a lot of that development.
And certainly it centers around the kind of things we've talked about in the past tremendous amount of liquids coming into the area and a lot of changes going on in the petchem space there where parties are trying to crack lighter products.
And that changes a lot of things it changed butane movements changes propylene movements.
A lot of things that change as a result of the feedstock coming into those plants changing.
And we have been thinking for some time there'll be quite a shift in logistics requirements for the business and that you can't build all this new cracking capacity in the Gulf Coast and not have a lot of new logistics issues.
And so we've been working to get ahead of that both in terms of getting our supplies and our producers' supplies access to better markets but as well helping serve the petchem market in an open access manner which heretofore has been pretty much not the way business has been done in the Gulf Coast in terms of having open access pipelines for all these products in between the facilities.
And so we think there has been a huge opportunity left to us there to be that open access provider for services.
And so we continue to see a lot of opportunities.
We've picked up pipelines from BP that were underutilized we picked up pipelines from Exxon that were underutilized and we picked up a pipeline from Explorer that were underutilized and we have quite a bit of similar activity going on to continue to have distribution networks that move with an expanding market there.
Inc.</strong> Alan do I understand what you're saying is that there's not just obvious opportunities for the organic CapEx that you already laid out on the acquired pipes but that there's incremental M&amp;A opportunities in that segment? I would say it's pretty -- they're pretty modest relative to what we normally -- what you'd normally hear from us in terms of M&amp;A.
And so those acquisitions that we've made over the last couple of years in total are I think $400 million or somewhere in that ballpark.
And so I would say -- those combined.
And so I would say it's those kind of pickups that we'll continue to assemble smaller investments like that and piece them together into a smart network.
Inc.</strong> Understood.
A couple of other quick follow-ups.
I noticed the CapEx cost on the Canadian offgas ethane project were up from 3Q guidance.
Is this just incremental accretive CapEx on an expanding offtake or is it simply inflation? This is Randy Newcomer.
The Canadian ethane project -- recovery project at Redwater is currently in construction and slated to be completed in May of this year.
And so what that represents is additional or better cost estimation basically for completion of the project.
So it's inflation in the cost of the project.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last question for me.
I noticed that the ethylene price deck had some changes.
We went up a little in '13 which is benefiting Geismar margins there.
But then we kind of flatlined into '14 versus what was previously assumed to be a steep contango into the following year.
Can you discuss kind of what's driving the long term expectations there? Sure.
We continue to really follow CMAI's forecast there and so you'll say that's right in line with CMAI's forecast.
And that earlier I think $0.62 that we had in there was also right in line with CMAI.
So a lot of moving parts in that space and we think those guys did a pretty good job of providing that guidance.
And so we take a look and certainly are influenced heavily by their perspective and that's actually what drove that.
Inc.</strong> I got you.
So this can easily jump around quarter to quarter in terms of long term guidance.
It's not something you're trying to kind of neutralize by flatlining it? That's correct.
And I would say certainly this year right now that forecast is conservative relative to what we're seeing on the ethylene and certainly conservative -- our forecast is conservative compared to what we're seeing right now on propylene.
But certainly it'll be some volumes continuing new ethylene production coming on as some of these new facilities get back online.
So I don't think it's going to be really big frankly in '13 and maybe not even in '14 but beyond that we'll probably see ethylene production pick up.
And we'll take our next question from Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking at I guess your guidance for the Geismar volumes? Is the difference really just related to the timing of the expansion? This is Randy Newcomer.
You're referring to the volume estimate of 125 million? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Basically it's several different factors but the primary factors are related to the timing of the -- timing of the turnaround where we were running longer moving the turnaround from the spring to the fall between turnaround cycles.
And at the end of -- at the tail-end of the turnaround you end up having a little bit of natural degradation in your production capacity over the course of the run.
So that's impacting it a little bit.
The second thing is as we're planning this turnaround obviously it's a combination of both maintenance activities and tie-ins related to the expansion.
And so as you might expect there's a lot of complexity to that and the need for a lot of good planning effort.
We're not quite finished with the final plan for the activity during that time frame but we've injected a little bit of additional -- as Alan spoke to before -- a little bit more conservatism into the volume forecast understanding that there will probably be a few bobbles as we come up from the expansion -- we're going to come up after the turnaround in full expansion mode.
Whereas before we were going to come up at the current rate and then bring expansion on later in the year.
With moving the timing of the turnaround to the fall we will be coming up off the turnaround in full expansion mode.
So a combination of factors there.
Additionally when you crack heavy with propane versus ethylene you make a little bit less ethylene and more propylene and so we really have to look at total olefins production rather than just ethylene and 125 million pounds per year is related just to ethylene.
If you'd net it with the other olefins that you produce that certainly are valuable as well like propylene it's about 100 million pounds a year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you anticipate I guess cracking propane at that 30% max or close to it this year? It just depends on the relative price at any given point in time.
We tune that up each month.
So basically if you took our assumptions on the ethane to ethylene spread anytime we are cracking propane to propylene it's an upgrade to those economics.
That's the only reason we would be doing that is that if we see better economics.
And obviously right now we're seeing better economics cracking the propane.
And so that's always kind of an upside to the basic ethane to ethylene spread.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then maybe if you could talk about Williams' competitive position in bidding for the new pipeline project in Florida? This is Frank Ferazzi.
We like much of the rest of the market have received the documents for FP&amp;L's RFP and so -- it's complicated set -- it's a complicated RFP it's 200 pages or more.
And so we're in the process of evaluating both the commercial aspects of the RFP as well as our financial planning people looking at the route and coming up with an estimate of capital.
And so we have a lot of work to do between now and early April when responses to the RFP are due and have not yet decided whether we're going to bid or not.
I would say that I think Gulfstream is in a good position currently in the marketplace -- strong assets strong relationships with the market.
And so I think that will give us an advantage in the end.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess if you do decide to bid would this be a project you're pursuing with Spectra like a JV 50-50 JV? It would be a project that -- a bid that would come from Gulfstream which of course is owned by Williams and Spectra jointly.
We'll take our next question from TJ Schultz with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following up on the NGL projects in the Marcellus and Utica I guess as the liquid takeaway options evolve and options for ethane take-away come along what is the status or interest level of your proposed Confluence rich gas project there? Well I would say Confluence has merged into a lot of different things but we are in really good shape there.
I would say and have made good progress on contracting with parties in the area.
A little different than what we've originally laid out but in terms of investment opportunity it'll look very much the same.
And so we are excited about that and it's helping -- as well it's helping to support our confidence in a large Raw Make system being built in the Gulf Coast as well.
And so things are coming together there very nicely.
We'll go next to Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Back to the question on the use of cash at WMB.
The coverage ratio at PZ was 0.95x in '12 and we have talked about where it is for '13 and '14 it's 1x with some nice increases in ethane and propane.
I guess I'm looking for more on -- at what point does MB support PZ given that need to do equity and forego some RDRs [ph] with some of that use of cash given that it's a fairly weak outlook for the next couple of years? Becca this is Don.
I'd say it's a fairly hypothetical question right now.
I mean I appreciate the question but I would say it would depend on the facts and circumstances that develop.
I would say if again the plan that we laid out we execute on the plan we don't believe there is a need for support.
And we'll see how things play out.
And if the situation were to be more difficult that'd be something we'd have to consider.
But I think it's hard to be formulaic about it.
Again we look at -- and in terms of coverage we looked at '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 so if you really look at kind of the 5-year average -- again the 5 years is well above 1.
Yes we expect 2013 to be below 1 but again we are also investing a tremendous amount of capital in fee-based growth projects that we expect to come into service in '14 and '15 and really boost the fee based cash flows and boost the coverage at the same time that we're raising distributions.
And 2013 is burdened by the carrying costs of those projects both in terms of equity and debt that have been issued to fund that growth.
So it's not just about the commodity price but it's about the tremendous growth that's occurring in the carrying cost of that.
So again we think this is still just a near-term challenge.
And again with the business plan that we've laid out and assuming effective execution we think we'll be through this in relatively short order.
And we'll take our next question from Selman Akyol with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to Geismar for a minute or 2.
First of all can you just remind us of the contract structure or are you just selling all into the spot market? Well -- this is Randy Newcomer.
We have a number of contracts and our contract mix as Alan alluded to earlier is changing.
A lot of our ethane plus kind of contracts and collared ethylene sales have rolled off.
And in fact as of now we really only have one that is on -- sale on ethane plus basis.
The rest of them are all contracts that are priced at market basically.
Some of them are spot some of them are yearly contracts.
But the pricing is based on more spot kind of pricing.
And we purposely have done that because we believe in the fundamentals of that that ethylene is going to continue to be in good demand and we'll have a great ethylene crack going forward.
So we've positioned ourselves to be exposed to the full crack for the present and including our expanded volumes as they come on later in the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then given your ability to I guess to crack propane into propylene given margins have been extremely robust for propylene this first quarter we could expect high margins then going into Q1? Yes we do.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you look out into 2014 it looks like your capacity utilization assumptions are pretty high then going into that as well and you're seeing that I guess reflected by your customers too? Are you talking about on the volumes at Geismar? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well yes that's obviously a full year of the expansion coming up and naturally what's driving that.
Even in the fourth quarter of this year because of what we said we've built in some conservatism.
We normally -- you normally see us putting in a depending on how many -- how much downtime we expect for the year but normally you'd see us running around 98% to 99% uptime on a facility like that.
And I think we've got somewhere in the 92% range built in just following the startup there in the fourth quarter.
Again just trying to be conservative relative to the kind of bobbles we might experience as we bring that new facility up.
So it's a combination of those 2 things that is driving -- but obviously the big driver is the new expansion that will be online full year in 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just going back to your guidance.
You have about $2 billion forecasted for distributions in 2013.
Can you say how many units that's based on? Asking how many units.
That's a good question.
We haven't disclosed the number of units but it would be -- obviously the current units outstanding in some plan for -- or some assumption on new units and we're not prepared to provide guidance on that at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And one very small last question for me.
The Mid-Atlantic Connector when do you have that coming online in 2013? Hold on just 1 second.
Yes Mid-Atlantic Connector actually went in service last week.
So it was originally scheduled to be in service in November but we had a 2-month delay.
And there are no other questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well thank you very much.
On behalf of myself our executive leadership team and our Investor Relations staff I want to thank you for your time and attention this morning.
A lot of moving parts that you all are all right on top of and I appreciate the opportunity to give you better explanation around that.
We certainly look forward to sharing a more detailed deep dive into all of our businesses with all of you at our upcoming Analyst Day that is scheduled for May 21 and we look forward to seeing you then.
Thank you everyone.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases with related schedules and the accompanying analyst packages; a presentation discussing these results; guidance updates and growth opportunities with related audio commentary from our President and CEO Alan Armstrong; and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
This morning Alan will make a few comments and then we will open the discussion up for Q&amp;A.
We also have the 4 leaders of our operating areas present with us: Frank Billings leads our Northeastern G&amp;P operating area Allison Bridges leads our Western operating area Rory Miller leads our Atlantic-Gulf area and Randy Newcomer is here from our NGL &amp; Petchem Services operating area.
Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we've reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Good morning.
Thank you John.
Well first of all our cash flow metrics for the first quarter remained strong and in line with our expectations despite a continued decline in NGLs.
Earnings at WMB however for the quarter were impacted by higher DD&amp;A including an additional $17 million of noncash amortization related to the ACMP acquisition.
But we were pleased with the 1.05 coverage at WPZ despite another 21% step down in NGL margins from the fourth quarter of '12 and now a 50% decline from the first quarter of 2012.
Looking forward we see some short-term painful but long-term healthy cross-currents as both the NGL markets and the natural gas markets continue to expand on the backs of low-cost supplies relative to global alternatives.
The natural gas market right now is ahead as the demand decisions have already been made in response to an extended low gas price period.
But the NGL demand side will also begin to respond but perhaps not as quickly and certainly to more limited options for market expansions.
As a result we see a couple of years where NGLs will be oversupplied and producer's response to natural gas price signals will be more -- or will be met by most people -- be slower than most people's expectations just because of the time it takes to set the flywheel rolling in these large-scale operations.
Areas like the Marcellus and the Utica will be advantaged by the benefits of large-scale development because those major programs are already in place.
For Williams this results in great infrastructure investment alternatives to expand in the market access for these large-scale NGL and natural gas values that still will be ready to deliver quickly against the positive market signals.
So in the short term the higher natural gas prices will be negatively impact -- will negatively impact our margins.
But longer term this will drive even more investment alternatives.
So while our 62% growth in DCF from 2013 to 2015 is certainly impressive we could see this improve even more if the forecasted pricing environment holds up long enough to spur more supplies and more demand because after all our strategy is built around the volume throughput that will come with expanded markets with these great low-cost resources being developed here in North America.
We're excited this quarter to announce the continuation of our 20% dividend growth at WMB through the 2015 guidance and we look forward to sharing more about our large platform of growth capital projects that supports this continued growth in 2015 and beyond with our Analyst Day coming up here on May 21.
And with that we'll turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Brad Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you provide maybe some kind of breakdown of what is driving the CapEx growth in the Northeast segment particularly? Is that the result of regulatory hurdles labor materials or another factor? Yes this is Frank Billings.
The majority of the capital increase in the Northeast that we're seeing and forecasting for really '13 and '14 and a little bit of '15 is really targeted for additional capacity requirements to support the drilling programs for our customers in Northeast Pennsylvania.
We're actually expanding market outlets to support those drilling programs and increasing our takeaway capacity to the current pipeline connections that we have as well as setting up for Constitution coming on as well.
The other thing we have is -- the other piece of that is we do have our Three Rivers investment in that time period as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk about increasing takeaway alternatives is that focused more on gathering? Or is that -- is there a specific long-haul pipeline that you're delivering into more than you expected or where you're building more capacity? It's spread out across the current delivery points that we have today.
So we have our deliveries into Transco Tennessee Millennium we'll have Constitution and those are the primary ones we're going to continue to focus on.
And that's the -- and those are the outlets that our producer customers are wanting us to focus on as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is there an update at this point on Bluegrass how the contracting of the pipeline is coming along? And if Bluegrass does proceed do you believe that it reduces the demand for local market fractionation in the Northeast? This is Jim Scheel.
Bluegrass negotiations are going very well right now.
We have operations legal and commercial folks working to finalize the agreements.
It's my hope that we'll be finalizing those some time during this month so that we can go out to customers with tariff proposals early next month.
Going to the next part of the question yes I do believe that Bluegrass will provide a great opportunity for wide-grade [ph] product to move to the Gulf Coast in order to meet the customer demand for NGLs in the large-scale fractionation facilities in that area of the country Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last question from me.
In 2014 there was a revision to the Atlantic and Gulf segment EBITDA.
It looked a little bit larger than just commodity impacts alone and I was wondering if you could comment on that? And that's all for me.
Alan do you want me to take that.
Yes please Rory.
Yes.
Just a couple of things going on there.
Effective March 1 2013 we have set new reserve rates and rates subject to refund.
And the main driver there was we wound up with a little lower rate base to work against than we were forecasting in earlier periods.
We had a little lower maintenance capital spending and so that drove the rate base down which brought that kind of forward-looking base down a bit.
And then there is an impact on Gulfstar.
We're probably looking at a couple of months potentially delay there and that effect is kind of amplified because of the accounting treatment that we're using with the Marubeni buy end of the project.
As you recall we sold half of that project to Marubeni and due to the accounting treatment it shows the full impact to segment profit but the impact on DCF is only about half of that.
And Don if you -- you may have a little more clear accounting explanation of that but that's it in a nutshell.
Just to follow up on Rory's comment again we consolidate the Gulfstar project so we show 100% of it despite the fact that our ownership is 51%.
And our partner Marubeni's interest shows up as non-controlling interest so you see segment profit move down as we've pushed the startup of that project back by a quarter.
But the net effect of that is about half of what shows up in the segment profit change because of the non-controlling interest change that offsets it.
And we'll take our next question from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel at Citi.
I appreciate the additional guidance on the dividend for 2015 but I just wanted to ask a few questions on those assumptions in order to get to that number for dividend growth for '15.
I guess if I look at the analyst package and look at your coverage ratio for the dividend payout for '13 and '14 it seems like you have enough coverage.
But it looks like that assumption is based on a very low cash tax rate.
It's also based on ethylene prices kind of holding up where they are and I guess it also assumes that ethane rejection kind of continues for the foreseeable future.
I'm just wondering what gets you comfortable that you have enough wiggle room through the -- over the next few years to increase that dividend all the way to 2015 by 20%? I mean the cash tax rate looks a little bit aggressive and the ethylene assumption also seems -- it seems decent now but there doesn't seem to be a lot of wiggle room.
Faisel this is Don.
I'll just take the first part of the question on the cash tax rate and then I'll turn it over to Alan.
But you're correct our cash tax rate through '14 is fairly low.
And even into '15 it's less than probably the long-term rates.
However we have a forecast that goes out well beyond '15 and we do account for the fact that our cash tax rate will be moving up over time.
And despite that we're comfortable that we have the coverage the capacity and the underlying growth projects to sustain that dividend growth through 2015.
And again I think we feel comfortable that we have strong growth beyond.
Despite it we're not providing guidance out in that beyond-'15 period.
Faisel I'll take the question on the pricing particularly on the ethane and ethylene.
At the WMB level which I assume your question is pointed to relative to the dividend don't forget that we do have ethane exposure positive ethane exposure in Canada that is not captured in a lot of that PZ analysis that we've shown in terms of our sensitivity of ethane to ethylene such that if you add back in that exposure -- now remember that -- the way that contract is structured we have a floor that's a cost of service basis for negative ethane.
But when ethane goes positive then that's long barrels that would offset that otherwise short position that we have against ethane.
So at the WMB level we're actually fairly neutral there.
In addition to that we also have the impact and it actually showed up pretty significantly in these numbers as we went to full ethane rejection from our Overland Pass business where we're showing full ethane rejection throughout this period.
So even though that doesn't show up as direct commodity exposure it's pretty significant in terms of its impact over this 2-year period.
So if you really look at the full balance of our exposure there I would tell you we're -- from a cash flow standpoint we're pretty well neutral relative to that ethane assumption at the WMB level.
And so -- and as to the ethylene and propylene margin we're certainly showing that reducing by about 10% from what we saw here in the first quarter of 2013.
So certainly wouldn't suggest that that's not without risk.
But frankly we're seeing a lot of pull through on the ethylene side right now on the demand side for ethylene.
So at this point in time we think that's a sound assumption on our part.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Alan just to make sure I understand the guidance going forward for '13 '14 and '15 the ethane equity sales that we saw in the first quarter and the ethane production numbers we saw in this first quarter are we to assume that those numbers kind of continue with the same first quarter numbers kind of going forward which would be a drastic short of reduction in volumes over the fourth quarter of last year and all of last year for that matter.
So I just want to make sure I understand that number in the guidance.
That is an -- I will tell you no -- even though we've said we will expect our pricing is done on a -- in terms of what we put out is done on an annual average basis and I will tell you it won't be that smooth.
And there will be periods where we have recovery and there will be a short period in there as prices inch up and then we'll see rejection turn around.
So when we say full rejection we mean that in the sense that the pricing signal on an annual average basis will keep that.
But we'll see spotting.
In fact I think we had some periods of recovery here recently here in the second quarter as well.
So we'll see periods where we go in and out of recovery and rejection.
But we think there's plenty of supply to hit that bid very quickly out there in the market and I think one of the things that's kind of reset that market a little bit from what we would have seen maybe 5 or 10 years ago is there's a lot of ship-or-pay kind of contracts out there such that the variable expense to a producer is higher than what it used to have been.
So they're making a decision against the ship-or-pay contract which is kind of lowering the point at which people will go into rejection.
And we as Williams really don't have that.
And so we're right on the edge there and really looking at variable expense with the exception of the little bit of impact the benefit we get from the Overland Pass transportation.
So I think that's keeping that pricing level down below where you normally would see it for -- to encourage ethane recovery.
Our next question comes from Stephen Maresca from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just on the IDR waivers.
Alan and Don you had 1.05 coverage in the first quarter.
What made you feel like you needed to do the IDR waivers through the year? And how much of this was just a reduction in price assumptions? Or how much of it was kind of your view that volumes are not picking up quite as fast as previously thought? Steve I'll take that.
I would just tell you very clearly the pricing is by far the primary driver for us on this.
I'm actually encouraged and I think there's a good chance that we'll see volumes respond even more positively than we have in our forecast.
But I would say we're at a little bit of a cross-current here in the market where gas prices picked up.
And yet the producers -- we're not seeing that response from the producers quite quick enough.
I think they're kind of looking at this pricing and wondering if it's for real or not in terms of this price pickup on natural gas and they're not quite ready to put the capital back behind what might be a blip in price.
So I think if that continues that we'll see that.
Nevertheless I would tell you that partially because of that response we're showing higher gas price throughout this period which is a big driver of that lower margin.
And as we've said here in the second quarter we watched butanes drop by $0.01 a day for almost 30 days in a row.
And so I would just tell you its hard to build a lot of optimism in that market in that pricing looking forward and we certainly don't have a good answer other than exports picking up some of that.
We don't have a good answer because we continue to see the incredible amount of NGLs that are available in places like the Utica and the Marcellus and the Eagle Ford.
And we just see those supplies continuing to roll in.
And so yes we've got expanding markets in the way of exports but there's a tremendous amount of supply continuing to build here for the next couple of years.
And we're going to need to see very large-scale solutions developed like the Bluegrass project to really provide big enough market access for these products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I believe you mentioned Alan also on the podcast just some of the lower segment profit guidance in '14 including some changes in in-service dates for projects.
Can you elaborate what is driving a little bit of that? Yes.
I think the primary driver there for '14 was the Gulfstar project that got mentioned.
And again that just hit segment profit by the larger number and you cut that in half when you get down to DCF.
That's probably the largest impact project that we have for 2014 and I think that's really the primary driver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then final one from me another thing you mentioned was being a little bit disappointed with the Ohio Valley cost environment higher cost than had thought.
Can you talk a little bit also about what is driving that? How you see that playing out over the next 6 12 months? Sure.
I'll take that and Frank can fill in where I miss here.
But I would just say we have really poured into that.
But I think one of the things that might -- some of the way that language came off a lot of the cost increases we're talking about just from an accounting perspective is much higher depreciation expense.
And so that's really one of the primary drivers of expense on that.
But I would tell you that we are working very very hard to get our operations in line up there and we're really trying to not spare a whole lot of expense on that.
We're certainly mindful to it.
But there's so much value in getting that system up and running and getting it up and reliable that we are -- we are bringing in a lot of resources from other parts of the country and really working hard.
That's a very high-margin business for us as you can imagine on one hand.
And in addition to that it's certainly a reputational issue for us as well in terms of serving the customers out there.
And so we're working hard.
There's a lot of issues to overcome out there as a lot of that system really wasn't built in a robust enough way to handle the variability that we've seen in production out there.
And so we're working hard to overcome that.
And so I would just say we're going to get there and we're having to pour the coals to it on the expense side right now to overcome some of them.
And we'll move on to our next question from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come back to the 2015 dividend.
What is the coverage by the way that you defined it that you're looking for in 2015? I think you're at sort of 1.3 or 1.34 on '13 and '14 but what's your coverage on '15 that you're seeing? Ted we have not put that out yet.
We'll put it out on Analyst Day.
But we're comfortable we have more than adequate coverage in light of the assumptions that are embedded in our forecast.
And again we didn't put out all of our '15 detail and keep you interested and coming to our Analyst Day in a couple of weeks.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I will be there.
Just on Bluegrass again.
I'm trying to understand the mechanics of kind of how -- the contribution that we'll get from Boardwalk.
As I understand it they'll contribute the pipeline you'll contribute the cash.
Is there any kind of crossover where on capital or whatnot they need to participate? Maybe walk us through that.
And then also this idea that ATEX the enterprise line might run more than just ethane how do you see that impacting the Bluegrass pipeline? Well I'll start with the first question.
Again this is Jim Scheel.
The anticipation right now is that Williams and Boardwalk will be 50-50 partners in the Bluegrass pipeline.
Boardwalk will contribute part of Texas Gas that will have a value in the joint venture.
Williams will true up through capital contributions for new construction.
We'll be equal owners throughout the pipeline as well as fractionation and storage facilities.
To the extent there's customer demand for a export facility we'd also anticipate sharing ownership in that on a 50-50 basis.
That's the expectation today and that's what we're working towards currently with them in those negotiations.
As far ATEX going into additional products actually we would support seeing some of those opportunities to provide clearing for near-term liquids out of the Marcellus to meet customer demand.
So I won't speak for enterprise but that would be something that I think would help the market in the Northeast in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then maybe just a big-picture one.
It sounds like you have a lot of great growth projects a lot of capital going in.
Is there any sense that you feel capital constrained at all? I'm just wondering if there's projects anywhere that you might be turning down maybe the pipeline into Florida that folks are working on? Just kind of how you're thinking about how much capital you have available relative to the opportunity set? Well we certainly are in a position to allocate capital and we consistently do.
And I would just tell you we're very wary of risk as we do that.
And so I would say we're allocating on a risk-adjusted return basis and that's -- it's a good situation to be in.
But we certainly are in a regular process of allocating capital and turning down alternatives that are put in front of us today which are above our current cost of capital on one hand but on the other hand we've certainly loaded into our equity pretty heavily last year and we've got such a great set of projects that provide so much value if we execute on those that anything that can get in the way of that kind of value being realized is something that we're going to guard against pretty heavily.
We'll take our next question from Sharon Lui from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could talk about I guess the decision to undertake Bluegrass at the WMB level and whether you envision this project to I guess generate primarily fee-based cash flows that would be appropriate of the drop down to WPZ some point in time? Sharon this is a Don.
I'd just say that we felt that WPZ had a pretty full plate in terms of projects to develop and finance and that Williams had some excess cash flow and the Bluegrass development was a good place to put it.
So clearly it's a perfect drop-down candidate or it could even be jointly developed in time.
But that was really the thinking around the decision to at least initially fund that at Williams.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just looking at the cash balance that you guys have and the projected -- the excess cash flow at WMB do you envision I guess any equity requirements to fund CapEx at that -- the WMB level right now? Sharon there's no equity requirements contemplated in this plan that we put forth but we wouldn't speculate as to what could occur.
But again I think as Alan mentioned we're -- we have a vast array of opportunities.
We're allocating capital very carefully looking at risk as well as strategic value and near-term value as well in deciding what to fund.
So it'll be based on the facts and circumstances and what comes forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you could just provide some color on the operational issues experienced at Ohio Valley and how that's being resolved? Sure.
This is Frank again.
Right now we're really working to debottleneck the system with some near-term projects to kind of get some -- take some quick wins.
Really we're beginning to implement our long-term operating philosophy for the area that really focuses on removing the fraction of gas stream that wants to be liquid under the conditions we're realizing in the gathering system.
We're still going to move those hydrocarbons to Fort Beeler and Oak Grove but we're going to pull them out of the gas -- gathering line and put them into our liquids line and then handle the separation and product upgrading at those central facilities at either Oak Grove and Moundsville.
The primary benefit that we're attempting to do is remove those liquids that are pooling in the line and driving up the operating pressures of the system to the point that the liquids are curtailing the volumes.
Another significant benefit of the change in philosophy is really a significant reduction in our pigging activity which has been impacting our reliability but also creates a lot of operational complexity.
As an example we're going to get operating expense improvement as well out of that because today we probably pig that -- pig those systems 3x a day and with these changes we'll be able to do that potentially once a month.
So we'll have significant reduction in those things that could impact our pressure.
But what we find is when we pig the system today we don't get very lasting benefit given the operating conditions.
And the other thing that we're really setting up for.
And you've got to remember that system has only really been out there 12 months or a little over 12 months but we have a wide variety of temperature and pressure that we see over a calendar year.
And what we want to do is set up a system that we feel we can operate safely consistently and reliably 365 days a year.
So we feel like we've got the right path forward and we're going to begin to implement some of those significant changes throughout the summer months.
We'll take our next question from Craig Shere with the Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick ones.
Don did I see correctly that you all are guiding to slightly higher cash tax rate expectations versus the fourth quarter guidance? And what's driving that? And then Alan I had a quick question about the IDR forgiveness after that.
Yes Craig I think there was a very minor change in cash tax rate and that's usually just a function of CapEx and taxable income.
So I wouldn't read anything more into it than that.
So it's just a tweak based on all of the other changes we made in our forecast.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And Alan on the IDR forgiveness -- I mean frankly as a onetime event as you fill in for commodity margin with your huge fee-based growth CapEx pipeline a couple of hundred million dollars as an NPV is irrelevant on a pretax basis.
The question though would be is is this really a onetime event as you are guiding to just over 1x 1.03x I think in 2015 PZ coverage? Or could you envision a circumstance where this might have to be repeated? Well I think you could certainly describe the time where we might repeat it if we saw conditions occur but that's certainly not what our plans suggest right now.
And I think we have a fairly conservative plan out there.
I think it's really just the result of the amount of heavy investment that we're going through right now on the capital side to take advantage of all these great opportunities.
And so we are very much investing into what we think is a great strategy and -- but that obviously has required a lot of equity issuance at WPZ to fund all that and that certainly put a lot of pressure on that coverage.
And you couple that of course with a rising gas price and drastically lowering NGL prices and that's the circumstances we find ourselves in for 2013.
None of that from my perspective overshadows the great growth prospects that we've got going on in the fee-based business and I think our effort here is just to bridge into that more fee-based model that we're moving to.
And so I think in the future there will be less variables as we become less and less reliant on the NGL margin.
I think there'll be less variables that would drive us or require us to do that.
So I think that's the way I would answer that.
Craig I -- this is Don.
I'd just remind you and the others on the call that again Williams owns 68% of the LP units and the IDRs.
If you look at our guidance we enjoy 73% -- and I think of the cash flows out at WPZ in '13.
And I think it goes up to about 76% by 2015.
So the amount of IDR reduction that's given back to others is call it 25% of the total 200.
So really the lion's share of that is really staying and to the benefit of Williams it's just putting it in a different pocket.
We'll take our next question from Brett Reilly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Can you just add a little bit more color on the OBM lower volume assumptions more in the '14 '15 time frame recognizing the issues you face today? Sure.
When we look at what's going on in '13 I think if you look back at some of the producers behind our system they've openly said that they're scaling back 2013 drilling behind OBM as a result there in response to the current operating capacities that we have there.
There's still probably $100 million a day of volume that we're going to unlock over the next 4 to 6 months that we feel like we can bring to bear.
But we really feel that the producers are really focused on the drilling programs for 2014 and '15.
And given the things that we're doing up there I think we're going to allow the producers and Williams to get to the levels that we've previously forecasted.
I think in '14 our volume projection's not off that far.
And I know we have a little bit of a step down in '15 but I really think that's less -- that's probably less a response to known information.
I think it's really just when we try to just project what we think the producers can actually do out of that area and given their volume profiles we're really just trying to forecast more of what we see the activity being.
But really we're going to get out of -- we know we're going to have reduced volumes in '13 for the known things we have but we feel like we'll have the system capable of moving the volumes that we've had in our previous forecast and I think we've stayed pretty close to that level in '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And with the additional capital being spent in that area to resolve some of the bottlenecks today is there an opportunity at all to recover some of that cost? Or is this all incremental capital just to get or satisfy the current contracts? That's a good question.
And actually what we're doing is we want to make -- we do have to do some of these things to make certain that we stay in compliance with some of our current contractual obligations for pressures at some of our field receipt points.
But we have had some discussions with producers to looking at a value trade that could either be some -- maybe some acreage that is currently not dedicated or some other ways to get some improvements in revenues as a result of the improved level of services that we're going to see out there.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then maybe looking to the Western part of the portfolio any update on recontracting some of those commitments you have out there so that it's more fee-based versus commodity-based? This is Allison Bridges.
Certainly we are proactively negotiating contracts with producers as they are coming due.
And I think that they are interested in moving away from pure keep-whole deals.
So we are looking at different ways of contracting whether it be fee-based or based on price of gas or other items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me the $2 billion bump in your growth capital opportunity set at the MB level is that really just a function of Bluegrass? Or is there a few other moving pieces within there? Brett this is Don.
I think there's quite a few moving pieces.
I think the biggest change is the expansion of the scope of the Bluegrass system to include I think as Jim described fractionation storage and export.
We'll take our next question from Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Back on the cash on Page 79 the 2014 ending cash balance of $308 million at WMB level.
How much of that is Canadian and how much of it is domestic? And then just along with that with the Bluegrass project expected to come online in '15 I would expect a significant amount of CapEx in '14.
So how do you kind of bridge that gap at the MB level? Becca the bulk of that cash is Canadian cash.
How do we bridge that gap? Well it'll certainly be from capital raising.
And it could be debt could be equity.
We'll determine that when we finalize our joint venture agreement and officially sanction the project.
Becca a couple of things on that capital I don't think we've disclosed.
I think Jim took a question earlier around Boardwalk contributing to the pipeline and us contributing capital that's not an accurate representation at all of the funding situation there.
And I think the question was that -- Jim didn't say that but that was what the question implied.
And so there is a contribution of pipeline but there's -- and there's some recognition of that in value.
But the sharing of the capital obviously is a lot more easily split on the pipeline.
As well I would just say a big chunk of that -- we'd love to be in the field constructing in '14 but I'll tell you more likely most the construction dollars will actually be in '15.
And the project is scheduled to come on very late in '15.
Research Division</strong> And then on the Northeast the segment data shows I think a loss of $9 million in segment profit and the guidance is $100 million for the year.
Can you talk to us about how that ramps up? Is it ratable to get to the $100 million? Or is it more back-end loaded? I guess I'm not -- I need to see -- I'm not quite certain of the information.
Are you looking at...
Just looking at the first quarter versus your annual guidance.
Research Division</strong> I'm looking at the adjusted segment guidance within the PZ first quarter data book that's on Page 5.
It shows guidance for Northeast G&amp;P of $100 million for the year versus -- sorry I've got so many pieces of paper around here.
I think the first quarter was a loss of $9 million.
Okay.
Let me see if I can get that in front of me.
Why don't we take the...
Research Division</strong> And then while you guys are looking then Geismar.
In your call your podcast you talked about cost overruns at Geismar.
Can you quantify how big those are? Well I don't think we have disclosed that.
I would tell you it's still a little bit of a moving target at this point.
But the -- what we do know is that some of the estimations of the amount of steel and amount of wiring and so forth came in at a higher level.
So you can see on Page 61 there you can see kind of the new range for that.
But I would tell you we are pretty far along on it in terms of the project itself and have a very good idea of the required additional materials and labor on that.
And so that's reflected in there.
But I don't think we've disclosed the actual amount on that.
But again you can get a very good feel for that on Page 61 in terms of the range there.
Sure.
And to your question on the first quarter versus the year guidance this is Frank again.
I think what you're seeing in the first quarter is we had some slip issues and we also had the rupture in the -- on the pipeline system in the Ohio Valley that hit some of the first Q guidance.
But if you look at our businesses up there other than the kind of the -- what we're experiencing in OBM our businesses in Northeast Pennsylvania around our Susquehanna County Supply Hub assets as well our LMM businesses are performing pretty well.
And we should be seeing good cash flow and segment profit coming out of those areas.
So it's not back-end loaded.
We should see it start to come back quarter-to-quarter over the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then the last one is on IDR support.
You talked about up to $200 million.
That's really going to fluctuate depending on how much WPZ needs.
So as we model that do we look to you guys wanting to target throughout the quarters a 0.9x coverage? Or what kind of coverage would you give support to? Or what kind of -- how much cash to get to what kind of support level on the IDRs? Becca I think we've maintained some discretion over that.
But we have 1.05 coverage in the first quarter.
We'll look at what the second quarter results are on a year-to-date basis as well as our outlook for the balance of the year and we'll make a determination.
I wouldn't expect that necessarily we'll -- we won't try to put each quarter exactly where we would expect the full year to be but we'll look at kind of year-to-date actuals as well as the outlook for the year in determining how much to waive each quarter to get to the full year effect that we are looking for.
Research Division</strong> The $200 million only applies to '13 not to '14.
Is that correct? It is for the next 4 quarters.
So it does -- it would be available.
As you can see right now we're not forecasting that we would need that in '14 but it is available.
Yes.
Our guidance includes a waiver for each -- well for the next 3 quarters.
So if you look at Q2 through Q4 and the -- the actual payment for Q4 would extend into early '14.
That's what's in our guidance model.
However the commitment is up to $200 million over the next 4 quarters and we're targeting a 0.90 coverage ratio for 2013.
And again we didn't model any direct waiver beyond the next 3 quarters even though we mentioned 4 quarters potentially.
Our next question comes from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
I think most of the questions here have been asked but maybe just a couple of cleanups.
And first just to clarify the projected spending on Bluegrass that anticipates the 50-50 structure? Or is that being showed more 100% at this point? It's in the 50% Carl but it's not in our guidance.
It's only in the disclosure of projects that are beyond the guidance set of projects.
Okay.
And then lastly if I could just clarify and appreciate the extra information on Gulfstar.
This is with respect to 2014 WPZ guidance.
Is it possible to clarify -- maybe Gulfstar is the only major project of note but is it possible to clarify of the reduction in 2014 segment guidance and -- so understanding this is segment not the DCF how much of that came from the collective shift of in-service dates? I'm not sure I have that.
This is Rory I'm not sure I've got that.
If I had to guess I'd say it's around half of it.
And then the other biggest driver would be the other item that I mentioned about going through a rate case and our reserve rate and just dealing with a little lower rate base.
But the Gulfstar project is going extremely well.
I was down there last week and looking at the hull.
The project looks fantastic.
It's like a lot of these projects very complex and we think it could be a couple of months' delay on there.
So that's about half of that change for 2014.
For 2014? Right.
Right.
And then after that of course there's no effect.
There's no impact to any of the revenue streams coming off then.
Our next question comes from Selman Akyol with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions have been asked.
In terms of Geismar do you have a turnaround scheduled for this quarter? Take that Randy.
This is Randy Newcomer.
We are -- right now we're planning -- we're finishing up the detailed planning around the turnaround and the integration of the expansion.
That will happen -- the tie-in of the expansion will happen during the turnaround.
Right now we're anticipating bringing the plant down for maintenance and for the tie-in of expansion latter part of August.
So it'll be a third quarter kind of event.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how long would you anticipate being down at that time? We're planning -- right now it's looking like -- and we have it in our forecast at about 50 days down.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then also in the quarter in terms of production given the strength of margins I think you were at 246 million pounds this quarter compared to the prior quarter of 261 million pounds.
I was -- I would have thought you'd be a little higher than that given the strength in the market.
Any comment there? Yes a couple of things.
One is that if you'll recall the price of propane was down very considerably in the first quarter and propane was actually the preferred feedstock during that time.
And so we ran heavy on feed which makes less ethylene makes more propylene and actually higher profitability.
So that's part of the reduction in the volumes in the first quarter.
The other one was we had some furnace issues that kind of kept us one-furnace short for most of the quarter.
And those have since been resolved.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just more of an industry question I guess we've been hearing that ethane rejection has been running at about 175 000 barrels per day.
Does that seem like the correct number? Could it be higher than that from what you see? I would say from the vantage point that we have the areas that we have I would say that's probably fair of the ethane that's positioned to be recovered today.
Obviously if you included all the ethane that's being rejected up in the Northeast it'd be considerably larger than that.
But I don't think anybody is really counting that because it hasn't been in the market previously.
But I do think that looking -- if you track propane volumes and then track those relative to ethane volume a pretty good idea even though -- as people reject ethane as I'm sure you're aware it does lower propane recoveries a little bit.
And so I think that's a good indicator.
But I would say from our vantage point that 175 is probably in the ballpark.
It might be a little north of that but that's probably a pretty close estimation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then finally just for clarification purposes you guys talked about your forecasting based on ethane rejection.
Is that at the same level going forward for the next several years? Or do you have that declining in your forecast? No we have the same -- really when we estimate that for us we're basically just looking at our plant economics and our variable cost economics and determining what we're going to do obviously not determining what the whole market will do.
And as I mentioned earlier I think there's a lot of contract structures out there where there might be a percent of liquids contracts where the producer might be - or sorry the processor might be driven economically to continue to recover because they don't have the shrink risk or there are take-or-pay or ship-or-pay obligations where the variable decision if you will is lower.
And so they'll take a lower - because they're going to have to pay the transportation and fractionation anyway.
Therefore they'll take a loss on the ethane.
So I think those are driving some of those decisions.
But for our decisions we basically are forecasting that we'll be in full rejection at all of our plants throughout the period.
Now as I said earlier I can assure you that will not be the case that there will be periods where we're up a little bit as margins pop up and we'll take advantage of those.
But as it's modeled in our plan right now it is in full rejection.
We'll take our last question from Helen Ryoo with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Actually most of my questions are answered.
But just on accept and rejection is any of your keep-whole contracts on your processing plants have - on those contracts is there any must-recover ethane volume? Or could you just sell them at methane price when you have that negative spread? Yes.
Well really the way that works from a contract standpoint is we just replace any Btus that we take out.
So if we don't -- didn't take the ethane out we just leave the ethane in and we don't have anything to keep a producer whole on.
So we're not really exposed on that provided that we reject it.
It's just  we only have to replace any Btus that we take out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so I guess the full ethane rejection you saw in the quarter it's mainly affecting just the Overland and Conway fractionators? That's correct.
Now the Overland Pass line of course collects the ethane from our Piceance and our Wyoming plants.
So that's Opal Echo and the Willow Creek facility and those are a large producer of our equity ethane barrels.
That's a very large portion of our equity ethane barrels.
And so those are in rejection.
But remember that those go into Overland Pass they're not actually fractionated at Overland Pass - sorry they're not actually fractionated at Conway.
They're fractionated by One Oak at their fractionation facility in the Mid-Continent typically.
So those are 2 unrelated issues.
I would just say Conway is seeing the impact of rejection in the Mid-Continent.
Most of its barrels and its NGLs come in from barrels that are produced in the Mid-Continent area.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And do you have any take-or-pay type contracts on the Overland pipeline? No we do not.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up or it could be clarification but I guess did you change your Marcellus gathering throughput expectations for 2015 compared to the previous quarter data book? And if so how much of that is driven by I guess the spending reduction in the Laurel Mountain that was mentioned? Sure.
Give me just a second to pull-up my notes.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Alan Armstrong for any additional or closing remarks.
Let me get the answer - finish the answer to that question.
There's a few things that went on in the data book to data book.
To your specific question the largest volume reduction was probably around Laurel Mountain Midstream.
And what we did there is we have basically forecasted given that's a dry gas system at this point and really in anticipation of Chevron switching their drilling program into the wetter areas over the next few years pulled out volume out of that area.
But we also pulled back some capital as well.
So it was a decision to reduce the capital that was associated with some of that volume growth.
In ABA what we did is we used to -- prior reporting we actually had some volumes that were coming out of the William zone system and then flowing into the Laser system.
Even though it was the same Mcf we were showing those as being 2 volumes.
So in the current data book we've made a change to pull that out.
And we're also doing some recontracting on that business.
So it was being accounted for because we were getting a fee from Williams and then we were having a fee from Laser.
So to make the -- we made that change.
So that was probably the 2 largest ones.
And then obviously we did a little bit of a modification in Ohio Valley which I mentioned earlier.
Okay.
This is Alan Armstrong.
I'll go ahead and close out the call.
Thank you very much for your continued interest in the company.
We remain very excited about the environment we're in as we see the infrastructure requirements to build out for these very low cost resources here in North America.
And we are still very lucky to be so well positioned in the locations we are to be a major player in providing this infrastructure and excited to see the kind of very long-term growth trajectory we have not just a flash in the pan kind of growth but very long-term growth trajectory that's going to come off of these major investments that we're making here both last year this year and into '15.
So again thank you for joining us and we look forward to seeing you on May 21.
And that concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our websites williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases with related schedules and the accompanying analyst packages the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
In addition to Alan we also have the 4 leaders of our operating areas present with us.
Frank Billings leads our northeastern G&amp;P operating area; Allison Bridges leads our Western operating area; Rory Miller leads Atlantic Gulf; and John Dearborn is here from our NGL &amp; Petchem Services operating area.
Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Good morning.
Thanks John.
We are excited to talk to you about our second quarter as well as the continued progress on executing our strategy.
We remain very confident that our strategy is well positioned to benefit over the long haul as we continue to see this market emerge and tremendous demand for infrastructure to take advantage of the low cost natural gas and natural resources continue to be developed in North America.
Just to level set before we get into the presentation.
I want to run down a few key points that are key to our strategy and this is starting here on Slide 4.
First of all this -- the strategy really does frame our growth investments our dividend and distribution growth strategy as we continue to use that as direction for how we manage the business.
So we remain very disciplined around the strategy and it really is a very strong compass for us in the decisions we make.
So it's important for you to understand it.
First of all in the competitive advantage.
Competitive advantage is created by large scale and the resulting market access and low-cost that we offer to our customers continue to be a guiding light for us.
You won't find us making investments without those characteristics in our sites.
Our Transco system and our West operating areas are great examples of what that looks like to us.
And if you look at the Northeast the moves we're continuing to make in this area really are all focused on getting to that scale of #1 or #2 position in that area.
And certainly we are convinced beyond a shadow of a doubt that over the long haul this creates great opportunity and value for both our customers and our investors.
On looking to the growth side I'm not sure it's possible really at this point to overemphasize the growth opportunities that we have available to us right now.
Our Williams Partners Transco system is another great example as it relates to the growth opportunities that are in front of us.
This is the nation's premier natural gas pipeline system.
It's connected to the right supply and certainly the right market areas and the growth opportunities that continue to come at us day after day on this -- continue to build our confidence about the growth not just in the supply side as we've seen around natural gas but a strong movement towards the demand side.
And as we expect the overall market continue to expand.
The position we're in there is very enviable and we really are in a position to select not just any growth opportunity but the very best growth opportunities available in the industry right now.
Simply put you'll see us focusing on the top layer of cream in this opportunity set and with Transco is in other areas we're realizing our strategy and we are ensuring these benefits translate into value for our investors.
On the high dividend growth side.
This is central to our value creation strategy.
We've taken steps to ensure that even during a period of high investment in all these great growth opportunities that we are rewarding investors right now.
We are building in the components to see this strategy run full-out as we bring on significant growth investments many of which come online in 2015 and just beyond our current guidance period.
We are investing to connect the best supply areas with the best markets but we're also investing in ways that focus on fee-based that is largely resilient to commodity market fluctuation businesses.
This is the foundation of our strategy to reward our investors with growing cash dividends and distributions and we believe those characteristics also will produce high-value growth.
It certainly from our vantage point is the best opportunity we have to deliver great shareholder value both now and in the future.
So let's get into the meat of the presentation today.
Following a few comments from me as I go through these slides I along with the management team that John introduced earlier look forward to hearing from you.
Moving on to Slide 5 here which covers the key headline for today's earnings and guidance discussion.
The big stories here.
First the growth in our fee-based business at Williams Partners was a major driver in our second quarter results.
Keep in mind that strong performance was up against even less favorable NGL margins in this quarter and the unexpected impact of our Geismar olefins plant which was down for about 20% of the period and obviously related to the tragic incident that we experienced there in June.
Second we are again reaffirming our strong growth guidance for our cash dividends and distributions.
We continue to expect 20% per year growth in Williams' cash dividend in each of the 3 years in our guidance period.
And for Williams Partners we continue to expect strong cash distribution growth of about 9% here for 2013 and about 7% annually in each '14 and '15.
Third we are updating our earnings and DCF guidance with the modest changes to reflect lower NGL margins and our assumptions related to Geismar including the projected restart date in insurance proceeds.
So we'll spend a little more time on that here in a moment.
And I want to call out how things are developing from an investor perspective with our olefins business at Geismar.
That's where as you know we experienced an explosion on June 13.
For all of us at Williams it was significant both personally and professionally and also from an operation standpoint.
During my tenure at the company we haven't had to endure -- experience anything like that.
And I can tell you it was an event that I am very mournful of on the one hand on the other hand I've been very impressed at how our professionals across this business have pulled together to respond to it in a way that is keeping with our culture and now getting back and working hard to overcome from the incident.
From a financial perspective we continue to expect that our insurance policies will significantly mitigate the financial effects of the incident.
And we expect to resume operations at Geismar in April and bring -- in April of '14 and bring the expansion into operations immediately thereafter.
We have updated Williams Partners' guidance to reflect our current assumption about the financial impact of the Geismar incident.
In addition to the Geismar impact our updated guidance also reflects the expected NGL margin to deteriorate in '14.
Even though we did -- we have lowered our NGL margins for '13 and '15 as well.
I would tell you that we were -- we've been able to overcome that with other positives.
So really the only area that we're lowering guidance on is related to NGL margins is a little bit of modest reduction for '14.
Fourth we expect Williams Partners DCF to increase by 66% between '13 and '15 as our large inventory of projects and most of these as you know are fee-based continue to come online.
And what's notable here as well is that we expect the impressive growth to come even as we see continued pressure on the NGL markets that I spoke to earlier.
Finally we'll quickly touch on the few of the recent operational developments that support our broader strategy.
One that's particularly noteworthy is the progress that we're making on the Bluegrass Pipeline project that is now included in our guidance.
Before we move to the next slide I want to make sure that we're clear about Williams' support for Williams Partners distribution during this period of high investment in the extraordinary growth opportunities that we continue to seize.
As you'll recall in May Williams announced we would support WPZ's cash distribution coverage ratio at a level of about 0.9 by waving the $200 million in incentive distribution rights.
Today that $200 million is unused untapped because Williams Partners' strong second quarter performance yielded a year-to-date coverage of 0.92.
So great news there that due to the strong DCF at Williams Partners in the second quarter we remain without having to use that IDR waiver.
So we're very excited about that.
Let's move on to Slide 6 here.
The major story here is that we're seeing the tangible benefits of our growing fee-based businesses and what it meant in the second quarter is that we delivered solid results even in an environment of weaker NGL margins and the significant impact of the downtime at Geismar.
At Williams we had our second quarter adjusted segment profit plus DD&amp;A was up 7% compared with the year-ago.
And for Williams Partners our second quarter distributable cash flow was almost 1/3 higher than the year-ago levels.
The primary driver of the DCF increase at PZ of course was the strong contribution that Geismar made to the quarter prior to the June 13 incident.
And of course as you recall that asset was dropped down in the fourth quarter of '12.
And as you know it is producing tremendous distributable cash flow.
Also -- substantially secured as we've mentioned to you and we'll provide a little bit more detail.
We know there's been quite a bit of confusion on the insurance coverage in this package that we sent out we hope it helps to clarify that.
But we're glad to say that our business interruption insurance is helping secure a significant portion of that expected DCF.
Getting this asset back in service with safe and reliable operations and expanded volumes is clearly one of our top priorities for the company right now.
And we've got a great team of professionals that have got their hearts and minds into making that happen and are making great progress on that.
For WPZ we are pleased to report that our fee-based revenue grew 9% over the second quarter of 2012.
During the second quarter we saw our Western volumes recover from the earlier winter conditions of the first quarter.
And we also benefited from the continued volume growth in the Northeast as well as the startup of some of our new facilities.
Another driver of our improved DCF versus the prior year was lower maintenance CapEx and this is primarily driven by reductions in our Western segment as various projects wrapped up in 2012.
Additionally we saw another significant drop in NGL margins of 13% from the prior quarter so from the first quarter which were already pretty low compared with what we've seen in recent years.
And in fact the NGL margin for the second quarter were down a full 44% from the prior year.
So I think this is very significant that even despite these continued declines in NGL margins you're seeing our business start to ramp out of being affected by that and really start to grow from the strong impact of the growth in our fee-based volumes.
So our strategy is really starting to take hold in terms of those investments and we think this is really kind of a turning point this quarter as we start to overcome those declines with the growth in that business.
We continue to be very excited as well about our Access Midstream Partners investment as they reported a strong second quarter with their adjusted EBITDA increasing about 71% over the prior year second quarter.
And for our second quarter equity earnings we recorded $18 million in our adjusted segment profit plus DD&amp;A column.
In Williams NGL &amp; Petchem Services business we saw higher volumes lead strong growth up nearly 50% in adjusted segment profit plus DD&amp;A versus the prior year.
So with that good news let's move on to Slide 7 and review the Williams Partners guidance.
So now we're looking forward here a bit.
In addition to the strong second quarter we remain very optimistic about our business for the balance of the year despite the fact that we're lowering the margins on the heavies a little bit because we just haven't been able to see that increase that we've been hoping to see in the propanes and butanes and so we did lower that a little bit.
But the fact that our fee-based business has been growing and we've been able to do such a good job around managing our cost is allowing us to hold guidance.
On that basis what really is impacting guidance here in '13 was the impact of the Geismar incident.
So the big story here is we continue to expect tremendous growth in the PZ distributable cash flow.
And in fact we're expecting DCF to grow by 66% increasing over $1 billion in just this 2-year period from end of '13 to end of '15.
This growth is driven by WPZ's end guidance CapEx which is averaging about $3 billion per year right now.
And our latest guidance for WPZ's DCF includes modest reductions for this year and next year.
For 2013 the effect of the Geismar incident is the key driver.
And if not for that we would have seen hopefully actually a raised guidance because we've been able to reduce costs and continue to grow our volumes at a pace that is even better than we were hoping for.
For 2014 our expectation of NGL frac spreads is remaining very low.
And due primarily to the lower assumed values for the heavy part of the barrels I mentioned earlier and this really is the key driver in the change here for 2014.
There are a number of other moving parts in there.
But including in some of our projects and first flow dates on some of these projects that are backing up.
But for the most part we're -- again we were able to offset that through other improvements so it really is just boiling down to the NGL margin reduction there and we think we moved this down to a fairly conservative level.
I know there's a lot of interest now we're thinking about the Geismar effect in our financial forecast.
We have a slide in the appendix of this presentation that shows what we've included for business interruption insurance and how it is recorded in our financials for both the GAAP and the non-GAAP measures.
Our 2015 distributable cash flow guidance continues to be strong.
And importantly does not incorporate any support via IDR waivers from Williams and with more than 3/4 of our gross margin coming from fee-based business by 2015 we have created a cash flow stream that is more resilient to changes in commodity prices and our 2015 forecast it does and include an expectation of lower commodity margins yet we were able to hold it where it was again due to improvements on some other piece of our business.
I do want to make 1 point on guidance within the segments of Williams Partners.
You'll note that the Northeast gathering and processing segment profit guidance is lower throughout the guidance period.
It's important to understand that this change is really driven as a result of a reallocation of support costs among our WPZ segments.
It's not an actual increase in WPZ's overall cost structure again just an allocation amongst the various regions.
So bottom line our guidance now more actively reflects support cost that are being increasingly allocated to support the tremendous growth that we're experiencing in the Northeast and this accounted for about $30 million of lower segment profit for '14 and '15 and a little less than that for '13.
So that's a good overview of our guidance changes for WPZ which of course is a major driver for WMD's earnings and cash flows.
So let's move on to Slide 8 to review Williams and Williams Partners CapEx and investment guidance.
First just focusing on WPZ's capital I point out that we did have a number of movements among the 3 guidance years.
But in the aggregate CapEx is consistent with our prior guidance.
And of course we have lots of additional information about CapEx guidance at the project and reportable segment levels in our data book which you can find on our website.
Outside of WPZ we have a couple of major developments to discuss.
First and most significantly our current guidance now takes into account the Bluegrass Pipeline project.
Our board recently approved the project and we continue to be encouraged by the support we are seeing from the shippers who recognize tremendous value that Bluegrass has to offer these very large-scale rich gas drilling programs and I can tell you that the producer community out there sees this as a great resource.
But frankly they really are dependent and really extremely interested in making sure that these kind of large-scale solutions for clearing these products in advantaged markets are going to be in service.
And so I would just tell you we've been thrilled with the response and the interest in the capacity that we have available for this project.
And frankly I suspect that we'll look back in the not-too-distant future and wish that we had more capacity to have available for the area.
We are basing our expected investment on a 50% ownership of the pipeline and related frac-ing storage facilities.
And we also included a few notes on how we think about the financing of the project.
We've updated our current guidance to reflect ongoing changes to our Canadian PDH project as well.
We have increased our estimated cost of this project as we've seen similar projects in our sector experiencing some overruns and so we've always got our ear to the ground and really trying to gain intelligence on what's going on in the space and we've certainly noted that some overruns exist out there.
And so we're now looking at pushing the in-service date into 2017 primarily to allow for the codevelopment of the derivative plants that would be designed to take advantage of geographically advantaged propylene supply.
We're in the process of negotiating offtake agreements that will dramatically reduce our commodity exposure on the projects and I'll just tell you the interest that we've seen has been tremendous and we're very excited about this project and our ability to really convert this into more of a fee-based kind of opportunity for us and at a very minimum really reducing our commodity exposure on the project.
So still extremely excited about the project and frankly one of the advantages we're trying to make sure we capture is to make sure that we get full advantage for the geographic advantage that producing propylene and propylene derivatives in this area has to offer.
Let's move on to Slide 9.
As we review the second quarter and the first month of the third quarter it's rewarding to see how we are executing on our business objectives bringing new projects into service setting volume records and adding new growth projects.
These achievements all serve to support our strategy of developing and operating large-scale energy infrastructure that is connecting the very best producing areas to the very best markets.
And as I mentioned the growing demand that we're seeing in really all areas that are really positioning themselves to take advantage of these great low-cost products that we have here in the U.S.
As previously mentioned our Bluegrass Pipeline project and the related frac-ing storage facilities are a major development.
We executed a joint venture agreement with Boardwalk Pipeline Partners to continue developing this project and we've designed Bluegrass to transport natural gas liquids from the Marcellus and Utica shale plays to the rapidly expanding petrochemical and export complexes on the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
And as well as the developing petchem market in the Northeast U.S.
Williams board approved the project in June and we are now actively engaged in the development work which includes surveying environmental studies and permitting activities that are required to really keep this project on schedule.
I can tell you from the shipper's perspective maintaining that schedule is very important and a lot of people really have their eyes on that.
We do have an aggressive schedule out there.
And as a result we've got to move quickly on the permitting and environmental stage.
Of course the beauty of this project one of them is the ability to use the Texas gas line which greatly reduces the exposure we have to permitting activities along the large portion of the route.
In our Atlantic Gulf business we made significant progress on various fronts during the last 3 months.
As I mentioned earlier tremendous amount of growth going on on Transco but as well in the deepwater.
We're pleased to have reached an agreement in principle settling all issues in our Transco rate case during the second quarter and the agreement is in line with the new rates that we started booking the first quarter of this year.
And as you would expect the new rates are reflected in the current and the most recent guidance that we've provided in May.
So in other words steady as she goes on that front.
Team did a great job of getting that settled quickly and in line with our expectations.
So we're very excited to have that behind us and have that piece of our execution strategy checked off.
In the deepwater gulf we executed another tie-back agreement for our Devils Tower prospect.
And we believe there's strong potential for another tie-back agreement as well in the area.
These tiebacks are very powerful because of the very limited amount of capital required to bring these tiebacks on.
And as you know they produce a very meaningful amount of free cash flow.
And certainly this latest tie-back that we've reached agreement on is no exception.
New projects coming into service are key drivers in the strong performance in our Atlantic Gulf operating area.
On our Transco system those expansions largely are in support of growing power generation load.
We recently placed our Mid-South Expansion into service this added about 130 000 dekatherms per day of fully contracted long-term capacity connecting Transco Station 85 to serve power generators in the North Carolina and Alabama markets as well as a local distribution company in Georgia.
Just a note on that to remind you last fall we placed the first phase of this which is about 95 000 dekatherms per day into service in -- same time last year.
So we just keep clicking off these base hits.
They continue to grow the firm revenues and firm service on Transco.
Another important note for this period I'm sure there's -- be a lot of questions around this.
Because of our -- the Transco's positioning in the southeastern United States we really are uniquely positioned to help meet the growing demand in Florida.
As a result we work with the Spectra to develop a winning solution to serve this large-scale growth opportunity as the FPL went out for an RFP for service in the area as you're all very well aware of.
So as a result of that Transco will be expanding its system from Station 85 up to an interconnecting point with Sabal trail and the near our Station 105 and the Sabal trail partners will then lease this capacity from Transco's on a long-term and cost-of-service basis.
And in addition Williams Partners has an option to acquire a meaningful but a minority interest in the Sabal trails project.
The option gives us a chance to better understand -- because of the timing of the auction it gives us a chance to better understand the construction risk and the volume risk that ultimately will be associated with this bold project.
We also took an important step on pace with our schedule for the Constitution Pipeline.
In June we filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to seek approval and build and operate this 124-mile pipeline that by 2015 will connect Marcellus gas production around our Susquehanna Supply Hub in Northeast Pennsylvania with key Northeast markets.
And of course these markets are continuing to grow mostly from power generation as well and of course from the benefits of low cost natural gas.
And that does interconnect into the Iroquois and Tennessee Gas Pipeline in upstate New York.
The Constitution design supports transportation of about 650 000 dekatherms of natural gas per day.
In the Northeast gathering and processing business we're seeing important progress in putting the infrastructure in place to meet the demand of growth from the Marcellus and Utica shale plays and we're continuing to steadily increase gathering volumes in the Northeast.
Keep in mind that we have exposure to this terrific growth through both assets that we operate and those investments for us that are operated by ACMP and our Blue Racer joint venture with Caiman and Dominion.
Now on our operated assets we set record monthly average volumes for June.
And where we eclipse more than 1.8 Bcf per day of gas not bad considering where we started just a few years ago there.
And for the quarter we gathered 76% more gas on our operated assets in the Northeast than we did in the second quarter of last year.
So tremendous growth pace that we're on there.
And I think you'll continue to see tremendous record set there.
And in fact here in July our team in the Northeast there topped their June record by gathering over 2 Bcf a day on our operated assets in the area.
So our team just keeps expanding that.
And so we're very excited to see the kind of volume growth we've got there.
And also on the Susquehanna Supply Hub expansions we're working very hard to keep pace with Cabot's rapid growth up there team is doing a great job of working with Cabot and they are a formidable group to try to keep up with with their very successful drilling program.
And we are as excited as anyone to see them add their 6th rig coming up here in August.
So a lot going on up there and great example of how infrastructure and drilling programs need to be coordinated well together.
In our Ohio Valley Midstream franchise we added another train there so this will be the third train to our Fort Beeler facility.
So continuing to execute on the buildout of our infrastructure there.
And as planned we placed into service 3 condensate pump stations in the second quarter to maximize liquids to Moundsville and to make sure that we're getting the liquids the vast amount of liquids to continue to grow rapidly in that field.
And so as Frank Billings laid out for you at our Analyst Call he laid out several milestones that we need to execute on and we are clipping those off on schedule.
On Slide 10 we'll review the array of growth CapEx spending and the timeline when to expect these projects to begin generating revenue.
So if you look here at the large CapEx platform we're managing on the slide you can see all of our major projects that will be coming online here extending into 2017 with our Canadian PDH project.
Fundamentally this is the same way we presented our CapEx by project outlook at our Analyst Day in May and in addition to marking a couple of projects that are now complete including the Fort Beeler TXP III project.
The most significant updates relate to the inclusion of the Bluegrass Pipeline project in the Canadian PDH project as we've just discussed.
A few things to point out on this as well.
First the investment WMB made in ACMP is above and beyond what you see listed here and we expect all of their strong growth prospects will be self-funded.
Second with the exception of the WPZ Geismar expansion and the WNB Canadian projects all the remaining projects are backed by fee-based revenues.
And finally I would just highlight that this page concisely summarizes what we must execute on in order to achieve sustainable growth in cash dividend and cash distributions.
These are projects that are well-known and well understood.
Many are well into the construction phase.
Our growth is highly dependent on our ability to execute on this vast array of value creating projects and not so much directly on NGL margins has been in the past.
It also is obvious from looking at the slide that it will be 2015 before we begin realizing the full value potential of most of these investments and thus that 66% growth we see in DCF occurring in 2015 from our 2013 expected results.
So moving here to the close.
Before we move to the Q&amp;A session I'll just provide a few closing comments here.
First of all our fee-based business continues to grow and the second quarter results are a strong indication of the success of that strategy and our fast-growing resilience to commodity market fluctuations.
In fact when you think about it in a quarter where were lost our single-largest commodity margin generator in the name of the Geismar plant for 20% of the period we still had a very good quarter.
We continue to make significant investments in areas where we can realize large-scale and lower cost of operations.
And we are absolutely committed to focusing on areas where we can achieve our #1 or #2 position not because we want that for bragging rights but because we think that puts us in the position to have sustainable long-term dividend growth of the kind you've come to expect from us.
We've seen that in our Transco system and the west operating area and we're making similar investments in the Northeast to drive this additional growth not just through this guidance period but well beyond this guidance period.
Williams is working to connect the very best supplier areas with the very best market areas and we've assembled a very strong management team in our operating areas and in our E&amp;C areas and so we're very committed to helping deliver this growth and profitability that we know is -- that we can achieve as we execute against this strategy.
The strategy is providing us with so many great investment opportunities that we are in the envious position of picking the very best risk-adjusted return projects that the market has to offer and we think over the long haul of course that is going to provide superior shareholder returns over and above our peers both in the near-term but especially over the long haul and we certainly look forward to sharing our success with our investors as we move forward.
Thank you for your interest in our company and we'll be happy to take questions now.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Alan I want to talk first on Bluegrass.
You seem pretty confident in the project obviously it's now in guidance.
What's your view on what sort of commitments you expect to move forward on it? What are the next steps we should hear about in terms of permitting? You mentioned getting commercial agreements later this year and then finally on that do you expect this own -- just 50% of this or more or less as the project plays out? Well it's kind of hard to speculate on the ownership interest towards that.
It's going to be up to Boardwalk and their decisions there.
But I think as things stand we're so confident in the market demand right now on the asset that I would expect that they would carry through with their plans just because I think the returns are going to be very attractive relative to other options in the market.
I would say from a volume commitment standpoint remember that we have a number of opportunities that came to us through the Caiman acquisition in terms of the liquids there at that facility as well as we have the dedication that we receive from Chesapeake and we also have other parties that -- where we had the processing rights on various gas streams out there as well that give us pretty nice base frankly volumes to build off of and while we wouldn't be going forward on the project if we thought we could only get to that 200 000 barrels a day or so of production I would just tell you that we're seeing very strong interest from some of the larger players out there that really recognize how much value this is going to mean to the acreage out there and perhaps even see it as a strategic advantage in terms of being able to acquire acreage in the area.
So I would just tell you the excitement has been pretty pretty big on this from the customer base.
These are very long term commitments that we're looking for and of course those take some time to gain corporate approval on.
But I would just tell you that I'm not sure we could be asking for any better response than we've received today from the shipper community.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you -- just a final on that in terms of the ownership.
Is it something where you have an option to increase if you want or is it again something where you both have to agree to change that ownership percent? I'm going to have Jim Scheel who's been right in the thick of that answer the point.
Williams and Boardwalk negotiated an agreement where they have an option to be a 50% partner.
However if they choose not exercise that right Williams has the option to go ahead with the pipeline unilaterally.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful appreciate that.
And then moving Alan you talked about the opportunities at the Florida market for Transco has on the expansion side but also you mentioned about potential ownership of Sabal.
Would that be something again at your option you could purchase? Would it be from Spectra or would it be from the next terra portion of it or any sort of color on that? Yes sure.
It would be from the project as a whole from the Sabal trail project as a whole is what our option would be on.
And again just to make it clear we will be supplying basically the volumes in a phased approach on the front end of that project via Transco.
So we're basically the supply source by expanding to a point that reduce the amount of construction -- the greenfield construction required for Sabal trail.
So we're kind of the front end of that.
And Sabal trail is going to lease that capacity with a return that's consistent with our cost of service returns.
So eliminates our construction and volume risk on that.
And so we have that as investment which we found very attractive.
And in addition to that when have an option down the road to invest in Sabal trails and of course we really like that because it gives us a chance to see how the construction costs look like when they come out and the volumes will have a much better picture on what the volume commitments look like at that point.
Research Division</strong> Can you say a what percent you could potentially own of it? No.
I would just say it's meaningful.
But it is a minority position.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final one for me.
You mentioned as -- I was going to ask you about the reduction in Northeast G&amp;P at Williams WPZ in terms of the segment profit and DD&amp;A.
I think you mentioned that was -- so this is just higher cost that's what brought that down the $55 million in 2014 and $30 million in 2015? I just wanted to make sure I'm understanding it.
It's primarily just an allocation.
We have things like our engineering construction costs our technical support for operations accounting all those things that we allocate as a corporation out against our various operating areas and because we've got so much growth in the area and we're applying so many resources it we studied our cost across those areas and applied those more appropriately to the real expenses.
So it's not really a shift in our overall cost against the company.
That's just a reallocation of overhead cost to that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not a new cost or a higher cost just taking it from where it was accounted or allocated before and putting it into this segment.
That's exactly right.
And we'll take our next question from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> CapEx looks like it went up by $2.7 billion across 2013 to '15.
Assuming some sort of increase over the $1 billion cost number that I think you originally gave us for the PDH facility is the remaining mostly tied to Bluegrass or are there other large ticket items in there that were either included or taken out of out of the 3-year guidance.
Christine it's Don Chappel it's mostly entirely Bluegrass.
There's some other moves as you mentioned but it's largely Bluegrass.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then would you be able to give us I guess some sort of idea on what the cost increase is looking like for the PDH facility is it materially over or like 20%? No.
I would just say again we kind of came at that with an initial estimate that was very rough and the return was so attractive on it that we decided to proceed because even at an overrun that would have been -- or an increase in our estimate that would have been much higher which still would make sense.
And I would just say that cost did not go outside of that range.
It was higher than what we early had in our guidance.
But more importantly I think the point to be captured there is that as we look at the project we realized one of the fundamental benefits and what I would call industrial logic that underpins the project is the fact that we have got the ability to transport propylene derivatives rather than propylene itself into markets that are much closer than transporting the propylene all the way to the Gulf Coast and then turn around and transporting the propylene derivatives back to the Midwest markets and to the -- particularly in the Northern Midwest markets.
And so by getting the propylene derivative business built there we're getting -- we are positioning ourselves to be able to capture some of that transport and logistics advantage.
And so we want to build that complex in concert with those derivative plant and there may be some optimization opportunity between the propylene plant and the derivative plant.
Now having said that don't hear us say that we're going into the propylene derivative business because that's not at all what we're doing here.
And in fact we're going to do this in a way that's going to reduce our commodity exposure to propylene.
But it does allow us to optimize the construction of the facilities.
And again to enjoy some of the benefits of the logistics through the pricing structure.
Research Division</strong> I see.
So net-net would you say that your returns overall look better than when you originally looked at it? Or do they kind of just off -- does everything just offset each other? I would say that our returns -- I would say our returns will be lower than what we originally thought.
But I would also tell you that they're going to be a lot lower risk because you are converted to more fee-based business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in your presentation slide when you talk about equity funding for Bluegrass you say WPZ investment and then you wrote WMB and/or third parties.
Can you just clarify when you say third parties do you mean that you're willing to sell a portion of your interest in the Bluegrass project or sell your interest in some of your other assets like we've seen you do with Constitution I don't know maybe with some of your assets in Canada et cetera to raise the cash? Christine this is Don Chappel.
I'd just say we have a lot of options.
WPZ is our preferred funding source.
So to the extent that we need equity our preference would be for WPZ to fund that versus Williams.
But there are a number of other sources we expect that other parties will have interest in equity in Bluegrass.
We may not choose to give any of it up but it's really -- what you see there on the slide is just an expression of we've got quite a few options.
And in the near term to the balance of this year and into next year at least early next year we'll be funding this with excess cash at Williams and beyond that we'll have some choices to make.
But for the next couple of quarters 2 or 3 quarters it's really funding with excess cash flow at Williams.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then lastly for me.
In the Northeast it looked like OBM volumes were slightly revised down in '14 and '15 while Susquehanna was raised.
Can you verify that's the case and can you also provide a number for what volumes are today at OBM? Sure this is Frank Billings.
I would say that we did revise the volumes down a little bit.
The majority of that is as we actually have derisked a little bit it to the OBM volume forecast because we had a customer identified in our forecast and we've actually executed an agreement to have them become a true customer versus a forecasted customer.
And with that we've got a revised drilling program -- drilling schedule from them and we basically included that in our forecast as well as one of our existing customers revised slightly their drilling program for '13 and '14.
So that's the main driver for the volume adjustments I would say in OBM.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then can you provide a number for what volumes are today at Williams? Yes.
Right now we're moving around $200 million today kind of we're moving around $250 million to $260 million but we do have some volumes that are not moving.
We've hit a peak volume in excess of $300 million a day in OBM.
And right now what is happening is we have a couple of customers one is drilling and frac-ing a new well so they've shut in some production around that well frac so that they don't -- or for whatever reason I guess they want to protect or manage that activity.
And then we have another customer that is having some permitting issues on one of their well pad so they had to shut in production as well.
But I can tell you that we're also -- we have multiple producers out there that are in the process of completing some wells and I think -- we see the activity that we expected to see from the producers in OBM this summer as they're trying to get some work done before the fall and winter season hits.
So I think we're on the right trajectory and I just think what we have is -- when we lose 30% of our volume or 10% of our volume $30 million a day for producer activity it shows up at this point.
But I can tell you that in OBM today we are operating well mechanically.
All of our mechanical and operational issues are few at this time.
And I think we're in a good position to move the volume that's behind the system today.
And when we complete the work for -- that we had talked about in the second -- the first quarter call around the CR -- or the facilities that we're going to get in place I think we're going to be in great shape for the rest of the year.
And we'll take our next question from Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on Transco and some of the opportunities you're seeing around that asset.
We've seen Leidy pricing and just pricing around the dry gas pricing area the Marcellus come under a lot of pressure.
Is that adding to kind of inbound producer demand and maybe even some inbound demand side or utility demand for capacity on projects to get out of the Northern PA and Northern New Jersey markets like Leidy Southeast and Constitution? Bradley this is Rory Miller.
Good question.
In fact when we closed out our Leidy Southeast project we had very robust demand.
But we've had a number of producers that have called back saying if they could get in to see if it was not too late to open the door and get on the project.
So I think we've got over 8 BCF a day of pipeline interconnects and capacity connected to bring gas into Leidy.
And as those new connections see additional wells drilled behind our system and behind those interconnects people are finding they need to get a way out.
So we think there's an excellent chance for additional expansion up there somewhere down the road.
But very much a supply push situation.
We've talked a lot about the quality of the Cabot reserves the quality of their wells up there.
But we're seeing that sweet spot extend west of there as well.
So even though it's a dry gas area the EURs on those wells are so robust that the economics of the current gas prices are very compelling.
So we see a big supply push coming out of that area and we're looking at number of opportunities to help satisfy that demand from producers.
Likewise we talked a lot at Analyst Day about all the power generation opportunities up and down the system.
We continue to see those opportunities roll in the door.
So there's a fantastic opportunity for us to match up demand pull with the supply push and we think that's going to keep new projects coming for years into the future.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> But no plans today on the table to expand either the Leidy Southeast or the Constitution project? Right now we're probably focused on the Leidy opportunity and I would just say we're early on in that but something could be coming out here in the near future.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Bluegrass project.
As you look at the pipeline fractionation storage integrated nature of that project is the 2.7 give or take that you discussed as being largely Bluegrass related in your CapEx budgeting does that include an export facility? And do you think that you would need to enter into a JV or some kind of economic sharing agreement with someone who has an existing export facility or existing acreage on the Gulf Coast in order to get that done? Bradley this is Jim Scheel.
We have not included in the guidance number the export facility.
We're still defining that at this point.
We have seen a great amount of interest from our customers for that they do view the international markets as the logical destination for many of the propanes and butanes.
We have identified the site and we're moving forward to acquire that.
As it relates to the cost of that we're still defining it.
We'll include that in future guidance.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a follow-up on some of the PDH questions from earlier.
The PDH as well as the ethane recovery costs appear to have increased since the Analyst Day.
Is that in the case of the PDH something related to kind of overall labor and cost trends in Western Canada? Or are those 2 separate issues? And on PDH Alan you mentioned that you would kind of rule out entering the propylene derivative business.
Is there any reason specifically that you ruled out providing your own polypropylene facility just to expedite that process? Yes I'll take the last half of that and then I'll ask Fred Pace who runs our engineering construction to answer your question on the fundamentals in the construction cost in Alberta.
On the derivatives side I would just say that as you move further and further downstream that starts to become more and more knowledge that is outside the base of our operations today.
And I would just say we have so many opportunities that are right down our fairway of knowledge that it doesn't really entice us to move outside of the area that we have strong knowledge in.
And so we're excited to partner with others that have both the marketing expertise and the operations expertise that can help bring the value to that.
So said another way we're not really all that motivated to learn some new lessons when have such great opportunities in front of us right now.
And so that's really driving that decision.
And I'll ask Fred to answer the questions around the cost pressures in Alberta.
Yes on the PDH cost outlook kind of playing on Alan's earlier comment about our observance of other projects having cost pressures we've analyzed that.
And did a much better job of also analyzing all of our other risks around availability of labor and contract personnel and materials our entire supply chain around that.
So that's just our best current thinking and guidance around our current risk analysis to come up with our current outlook.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one more and I'll get out of your hair.
The Atlantic Gulf segment you reduced kind of 2013 and 2014 guidance fairly significantly after the first quarter call.
Now you've kind of printed 2 strong quarters in a row in the Atlantic Gulf segment really the kind of Transco-related seasonality really wasn't visible on those results.
And so you've kind of printed $300 million of segment profit in the first half of the year and you've kind of guided towards a full year segment profit in the low $500 million range.
Is that -- is it correct to imply a decline in the second half of the year? Or is that just a segment that has I guess outperformed since the first quarter reporting? This is Rory Miller again.
I think the guidance that we included in the book showed us outperforming guidance maybe $30 million on a full year basis.
And I -- so I think we're going to be able to hold on to some of that about 2/3 of that revision is attributable to lower O&amp;M and G&amp;A and we've been working hard I think as Alan mentioned earlier to control expenses.
And I think a lot of that is -- will be sustainable improvements.
We also had some other minor issues that are helping out.
We did have an increase on our liquid transportation rates on Transco for condensate and retrograde.
That combined with a little higher DD&amp;A and then a reimbursement for some engineering cost from Gulfstream accounted for about 1/3 of that $30 million.
So that's a lot of detail.
But a number of those are sustainable type items.
Of course the engineering reimbursement would be a one-time event.
And we'll take our next question from Craig Shere from Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of quick questions.
Does the business interruption insurance in the 2014 say for the first quarter cover the delayed startup of the expansion on Geismar? Craig this is Don.
I think answer is yes.
Basically the policy covers our losses.
So it's a comparison of what we would have made had the event not occurred to what we did or didn't make as a result of the loss.
And obviously we have a responsibility to minimize the loss and we would do that with or without insurance.
So we're interested in getting the facility back up and running safely as quickly as possible including the expansion.
But the repairs are really the critical path item and the expansion will be complete along with the recovery and the turnaround.
And we expect that to be covered.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And Don while I have you on the line there was little uptick at least for the quarter in the tax rate but I don't think the full year has changed in terms of guidance.
Can you give us some color around that? I think the full year is down a little bit because of some additional bonus depreciation we were able to identify.
And then just a function of continuing to refine the numbers I think the quarterly numbers are -- tend to move around a little bit depending on the profitability and where that profitability is.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then finally I wonder if you all could just give a little more color because I think there were some prepared comments regarding it and then also just recently some comments about attacking L&amp;M and G&amp;A that's helping the Atlantic Gulf segment.
But could you all discuss in a little more detail the success you seem to be having with cost containment especially in 2013 to offset some of the headwinds we're seeing? Well I would just say we've all made a concerted effort on that front.
As you know we went through some very significant organizational restructure post the spin-off of WPX and I would just say that we are positioned and we reorganized ourselves in a way that we can really focus and bring some transparency to our cost structures and understand the areas of opportunity we have to put pressure on that and the team is doing a great job of doing that.
So I would just say it's kind of the old-fashioned way.
The good news I would tell you is I think it's very sustainable.
And I think we have opportunities to continue to improve even more so as we kind of explore new opportunities in a much more integrated company.
And so for instance we're seeing areas of opportunity between gas pipes and midstream where previously we operated as separate -- completely separate business units and now we're seeing opportunities to save money because we're operating in a much more integrated fashion than we have previously.
So more to come on that but the team is doing a terrific job and very proud of the focus they've put on that.
And we'll take our next question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Three perhaps cleanup questions.
The first actually on -- just with respect to the insurance of Geismar.
Obviously you laid out the expectations and I guess with potentially only a 60-day lag that kind of implies a pretty smooth process.
Has there been any contention or friction from the insurers at this point that would give you pause at all or is this -- do you expect to be a pretty smooth process? Carl its too early to tell.
We've not yet filed our first claim.
But this is something where we'll be able to: one we can present our forecast.
The forecast we had before the incident and that was prepared without any knowledge of the incident coming so I think that's pure.
There's no bias in that forecast.
We can present that to the insurers now.
We would have our first insurer loss in the month of August.
That would have been after the 60-day waiting period but before the planned turnaround.
So there's a small period that's insured.
Just a couple of weeks of operation between that 60-day waiting period and when the turnaround would have happened.
So we'll be able to submit that at the end of August early September and get response from the insurers on that payment and that really set the stage for the balance and then we'd be in 50-day turnaround and so then in October we would have a partial month again where we would have another partial month claim.
We'd submit that claim at the end of October and then we'd submit a claim update every month.
So we think that the 60-day lag is reasonable.
It's possible we could get paid earlier or somewhat later.
But right now that's our best estimate.
Appreciate the color on that.
The second and not to perhaps beat a dead horse on the PDH facility.
But just given all the cost inflation that we have seen in Alberta and seem happening in such a quick period of time.
When you look out with the major spend on when the PDH would actually happen.
Is there any possibility of locking something up turnkey with someone in order to stem any possible future labor inflation? Well again I think by stretching our schedule out we give ourselves a lot more opportunity around that.
And as you'll recall and I think we mentioned this in our announcement -- original announcement with PDH facility that we were going with a little bit different design than some on the industry had because -- and a little bit smaller so that we can build that business on a more modular basis.
And so that allows us to bid out that modular construction on a fixed fee.
And so the remaining portion would be the in the field construction.
The good news about this project aside from some of the other projects we've seen a lot of cost pressures is this work is at Redwater which is near Edmonton.
A lot of the areas we really had a lot of struggle with in terms of low productivity and cost pressures has been in the Fort McMurray area where labor is more constrained particularly skilled labor is more constrained.
So I would just say we're taking -- we're working hard to contract this in a way that really eliminates a lot of that build construction labor risk and productivity risk and stretching the schedule out gives us even more opportunity to do that.
Fair enough.
And then last question if I could.
Just on Bluegrass and if you could just refresh -- I think you probably addressed this in prior conversations.
But as you look out at sort of this large material investment are you expecting from -- the feedback you've heard from shippers are you expecting a return profile in line with other sort of large almost call it FERC allowed type of traditional infrastructure returns? Or is it the uniqueness of the NGL solution would allow something higher more indicative of Midstream infrastructure? Well I would say a couple of things allow us with a -- and remember only a portion of this is regulated.
The frac and storage business downstream of that is not regulated so we have that opportunity if you will in terms of better than FERC return and I would just tell you we have plenty of regulated cost of service returns available to us.
And so we wouldn't take any additional risk or development cost like this if we didn't expect higher returns than that.
So the answer to your question is we do expect higher overall returns on the project.
And one of the things that helps us achieve that obviously is the benefit of the Texas Gas line and which provides us with a better solution than the market would otherwise had to offer.
And gets us in schedule.
Importantly I can tell you from the shipper's perspective this timing issue probably can't overstate that in terms of importance because people have all this acreage up there.
They're very anxious to go drill but they're seeing NGL prices continue to collapse up there in a very oversupplied market.
Their only option is to transport out by rail and that -- even that is getting pretty congested.
So I would just say that the market is very anxious for this solution and the return we're making is -- reaps the benefits of some of the things I mentioned.
And we'll take our next question from Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could maybe talk about the risk to achieving that April resumption date for you Geismar? Is it really just mainly I guess the pace of the repairs? Or does the status of the investigation play a part at all? A very insightful question.
This is a John Dearborn on the answer to that if you take a look at it we've got a few investigations underway 1 by OSHA 1 by CSB and of course the Williams' own investigation.
We're collaborating there in a very open and transparent way with OSHA and CSB.
And as a result of that over time over the last few weeks OSHA and CSB have been I'll say giving back more and more of that plant so that the effective plant now that's still under the control of OSHA is a very small area around the fractionator itself.
And so that's allowing us now to begin to I won't say demolish but begin to take apart the impacted part of the plant.
So pretty quickly here we think that the investigation is going to become a less of a risk to our path of rebuild.
Then the question becomes how quickly can we get the equipment and the necessary materials to plant and construct it and that in fact sets our timeline.
Though it's not without risk we feel pretty confident about the April 1 date that's why we've been out with it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just another follow-up.
In terms of the business interruption insurance does that like cover I guess any obligations or contracts with your supply or sales? I'll let John take the question on the sales contracts.
I don't think we expect to have any significant losses in that area.
But yes it would cover.
Yes and again very insightful because of course our customers are a very important stakeholder base for us right -- but we're going out to continue to build our relationships with our customers.
All of our customers essentially are on force majeure at the moment and will be over time.
We want to continue to preserve those relationships so that they'll be there when the plant comes back up.
So all these information is actually fresh for our customers in the coming weeks.
We're going to be going out and speaking personally with our important customers out there so that they are with us on the other end of the startup.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And this also applies for any supply sources in terms of ethane? We really don't have a concern about the ethane.
Essentially the ethane goes back into the market and probably get used and consumed by others so it's not really an issue for us in our business.
And we'll take our next question from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just want to understand the -- kind of picking up off of Sharon's question sort of the range of outcomes if we're plus or minus the April 1 date on financials relative to kind of where you are with the insurance and the deductible let's say we push another quarter out what does that do in terms of -- kind of the financial impact? Ted I think as John mentioned we have a plan to get us started back up in April.
If we push that back at some point we would run out of potentially or hypothetically we'd run out of insurance -- business interruption insurance and the coverages combined $500 million for both business interruption and property damage.
We have a current estimate on the property damage of $102 million less a $10 million deductible.
So that's $92 million of assumed coverage at this point.
And then as you saw we disclosed an estimate of $384 million on the business interruption coverage.
So certainly significant delays would expose us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But at that point then it's just a matter of sort of the loss -- what's called the loss margin of the downtime from that perspective? And obviously assuming the repair costs were the same.
Is that fair? Yes.
Again we have no reason to believe that the downtime will extend past April at this point but certainly as you think about risk I think you understand it well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the distribution growth here at WPZ.
It looks like you're still comfortable running a little below 1x in 2014.
You've kept the idea wherever is the same.
But again there's some flex here in terms of what happens with Geismar.
I was just wondering how we should think about what you'll target for coverage if the IDR waivers get increased from WMB or do we lower distribution growth say at WPZ kind of how those all interplay? Those are I would say speculative questions at this point.
But clearly WPZ -- Williams enjoys about 75% of WPZ's distribution so we have a big stake in it.
WPZ is our primary equity funding vehicle and funding vehicle generally.
So obviously it's very important to Williams.
We did waive the $200 million of IDRs.
We did not see any point to step forward further on that at this point.
But certainly we'll consider potential waivers additional waivers if and when needed.
So I would just say we'll stay tuned here.
If we execute as we had put forth in our plan here today we don't believe any additional waivers are required.
We look at 2014 at getting closer to 1x coverage again with a lot of fee-based growth.
And by 2015 getting back to that 1x coverage number.
So we're comfortable running where we are.
And at Williams we'll continue to monitor the situation and see if WPZ needs any additional support and make the decision accordingly.
And we'll take our next question from Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is with regards to the Western segment seems like in the west results were better than we anticipated and going nicely in the first half of the year.
I was just curious as far as in 2014 you have a bit of a stepdown there as far as what you're looking for segment profit in DD&amp;A it was only marginally increased.
I'm just wondering is that a bit of conservatism or what's kind of driving the year-over-year step down in guidance there? Well partly because we do have some contracts that had changed in 2014.
So that is some of the reduction.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last one for me.
I was just curious with this guidance revision I think some of the other recent ones it seems like maintenance CapEx has been ticking down a little bit for 2014 2015.
I was just wondering if you could touch on the drivers for that? Sure.
One of the things is we had some as we mentioned earlier we have some time pressures on getting some of our asset integrity work done towards the end of 2012.
We completed a lot of that work as we've laid out in the past so we kind of add an accelerated effort there to complete some of that work.
And as well we're continuing to take advantage where we can of the integrated nature of our business and looking to really invest that maintenance capital in the ways that reduce risk very best for this company overall.
And so I would just say we're continuing to really analyze that.
Obviously the thing we're going to spend our dollars on first is keeping the system safe and reliable and we certainly won't back off on the cost that it takes to do that and we'll continue to do that.
But there are other areas that we can find ways to improve cost purchasing power across a lot of our assets which we -- when we combine our gas pipes and our midstream efforts we got a lot of purchasing power.
And so we're continuing to find ways to improve on that.
And we'll take our final question from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just some follow-ups.
On the PDH facility if it's going to be in service in 2017 is most of the CapEx going to take place in 2016 with maybe a little bit in '15? I just wanted to know how we should think about the timing of the spending.
This is Fred Pace responding.
That's exactly right wrapping up in '15 but the majority occurring in '16.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then this is just an accounting question.
But are you going to be consolidating your 50% interest in GulfStar and your 41% interest in Constitution? I wasn't clear if you guys -- how you guys are accounting for it in your segment profit guidance? John is going to take this one.
This is John Porter.
Yes those 2 assets are shown on a consolidated basis with a non-controlling interest presented below segment profit.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional closing remarks.
Okay great.
Well thank you all very much.
This is Alan Armstrong again thank you all for joining us and we remain very excited about the future that we have ahead of us.
And our showing of starting to really turn the corner on the fee-based projects really starting to kick in so thanks for joining us.
And that does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners third quarter earnings conference call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Divona.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our websites williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases with related schedules and the accompanying analyst packages; the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily; and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
In addition to Alan we also have the 4 leaders of our operating areas present with us.
Frank Billings leads our Northeastern G&amp;P operating area; Allison Bridges leads our Western operating area; Rory Miller leads our Atlantic Gulf area; and John Dearborn is here from our NGL &amp; Petchem Services operating area.
Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we've reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Good morning everyone and thank you John.
Starting here on Slide 4.
I love this cover that our IR team came up with beginning.
It really depicts all the tremendous amount of activity and construction and project development that we have going on right now at the company and are currently managing.
And certainly this is what is -- will support the tremendous cash flow growth that supports our 20% dividend growth at WMB.
It also -- I think it's important to note this heavy CapEx burden also weighs heavy on our coverage during this supercycle of investment opportunities that we're thrilled to be a part of right now.
But before I get into the slide let me just very quickly remind you of our strategy that continues to guide all of our actions and certainly our investment decisions.
And so our strategy which is to be the premier provider of large-scale infrastructure to design to maximize the opportunities created by the vastly greater supply of natural gas and natural gas products now known to exist in North America's unconventional resource plays.
This is underpinned by our scale which we see as a competitive advantage in all the areas that we operate.
So wherever we are you'll see us be big.
And if we can't be the #1 or #2 in an area you won't see us playing in a space like that because we think to have superior returns you've got to have the advantages of scale that allow you to connect to your customers to the best markets.
So we want our supply connected to the best markets and we want our markets connected to the best supplies.
And we want to be the infrastructure in between that continues to fuel this tremendous opportunity here that we have here in the U.S.
to take advantage of low price natural gas natural gas liquids and the olefins derivatives off of that.
So moving on to Slide 5 here.
I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time on this because it really is just a overview of this presentation.
But here is what we'll cover here this morning.
First of all I'll talk a little bit about our better-than-expected third quarter performance and the drivers for that beat and also show some detail on how we're accounting for the impact of our Geismar outage.
Next I'll also reaffirm our 20% dividend growth profile at WMB while lowering our distribution growth rate to the bottom of our earlier stated range for '14 and '15.
So we're at the top end of the range here in '13 and we'll be moving to the bottom of that range that 6% to 8% range for '14 and '15.
And of course that is designed to drive better coverage metrics at WPZ and along with something we're excited to announce and something we've been working on for a while which is to provide you some detail on our Canadian asset dropdown.
And that would be the existing assets that we plan to drop down in January of '14.
Next we'll review some drivers of our tremendous 60% DCF growth at WPZ throughout this guidance period.
And then finally we'll review our project execution scorecard that is so critical to our success and we continue to show you.
And so it's critical not only for this guidance period but even beyond our guidance period as we continue to develop more and more fuel for our growth beyond 2015.
So moving on to Slide 6 here.
This is an overview of the third quarter and it certainly was a good quarter and better than we expected on many metrics for the quarter.
And so the thing I can tell you I am most excited about is where strategy is working.
And finally in this quarter we saw our growth in our fee-based revenues begin to overcome the continual slide in the NGL margins.
And so you can see there a $61 million increase in the fee revenues and that's a 3Q of '13 compared to 3Q of '12.
And so really thrilled to see that.
In addition to that despite the tremendous amount of development and effort we've got going into growing our business we are also able to control cost and continue to lower cost on that same comparison of 3Q '13 to 3Q '12.
So at WPZ our DCF was up 20% as compared to 3Q of '12.
And this was driven by that $61 million increase in the fee-based revenues at PZ.
Primarily this was driven by the tremendous growth in the Northeast and on Transco.
And also just to put that in perspective for you that means a 9% increase in our fee-based revenues more than offset a 30% decline in our NGL margins during that period.
Also something I'm very excited about is the $19 million reduction in our O&amp;M and G&amp;A again in the face of tremendous growth across our system.
Additionally our WPZ maintenance CapEx was down $50 million as compared to '12 and we still are spending over $310 million this year in these maintenance capital expenditures.
And we certainly -- and compared to '12 one of the drivers for that in '12 we had a lot of spending in our -- the asset integrity and the Clean Air Act issues related to our gas pipelines.
And so we got a lot of that out of the way in '12.
And in addition to that our maintenance capital on our Midstream assets was actually down more significantly.
And this was driven by lower well connect cost out West and as well as we've been making some smart consolidations out West and retired some of our older higher-cost assets like our Lybrook complex in the Four Corners area.
And that allows us to obviously to then do not have to spend the money to maintain those assets over time.
We continue to invest as required to maintain these safe and reliable assets.
And in fact we will invest over 35% of our segment profit from our pipes back into the proper maintenance of our 2 major gas pipelines Transco and Northwest Pipeline.
So the negative for the quarter certainly was the lack of contribution from our Geismar facility and it only contributed $15 million to the DCF for the quarter.
And this represents about a 13-day period between the 60-day waiting period on the BI and the planned 50-day turnaround.
And we'll show here on the next slide and show some really good detail on how that works out.
It's certainly fairly complex the way we're accounting for that Geismar impact.
But I think it's really important to note here that even with the Geismar with this 20% growth in DCF we only got $15 million of that 20% improvement out of Geismar for the quarter.
So really truly a strong DCF for WPZ during the quarter.
And we'll show here on Slide 7 -- now moving to Slide 7.
You can see what we show as the impact from Geismar.
And so I'll focus your attention here to the $79 million in the bottom of the second column and what that represents is the negative impact or the delta that we estimate we would have seen we did see in the quarter versus what we would have seen if Geismar would have been up and running on a normal basis in the pre-expansion mode.
So to keep this simple on this chart you can think about this business as about a $1 million per day of impact to our DCF and in the pre-expansion mode.
And so you can see there that if you -- the 60-day waiting period accounts to a total of $60 million of impact in 2013.
And you can see the 50-day turnaround amounts to $50 million of impact looking over there to the right column.
So really only about 13 days of profit in the third quarter associated with the business interruption claim that we submitted for the third quarter.
And this combined with the receipt of an actual insurance payment of $50 million related to the incident during the third quarter allowed us to record this $15 million of DCF in the third quarter.
So we also show on this slide how that has been handled in our accounting for both GAAP and adjusted numbers and we provide some additional detail in the appendix.
So anyway fairly complex but bottom line here is we think this hurt us.
Having Geismar down for the third quarter hurt us by about a total of $94 million offset by the $15 million of DCF that we recorded in the quarter.
Moving on to Slide 8 then.
This is the -- a little more detail on our Canadian asset dropdown and so we certainly are excited to be announcing this.
This really comes at the start-up now of our last big expansion our ethane ethylene recovery facilities that are now in operation at Fort McMurray.
And so we've got pretty big window here now between the next big tranche of assets that'll come on which will be the Canadian -- sorry the CNRL Horizon facilities and the PDH facilities.
So this is a nice window for us to drop down these assets that are now up and cash flowing the existing assets that are up and cash flowing.
So a little bit about this business.
Certainly as we've explained before we've got great competitive advantage in this business.
And because we really are the only parties up here that are taking the off-gas and extracting these highly valuable products out of the off-gas and we've got the right assets the right experience and the right operating team to be able to continue that.
And so we're excited about our -- that continued competitive advantage leading further growth for opportunities like Syncrude in the future.
We also are expecting about $200 million of DCF from these assets in 2014 and 2015.
And one thing I think is really unique about these assets is they were quieter [ph].
Though they're a typical processing plant and fractionation they have such a tremendous resource upstream off them that is invested by the upgraders that we really have very little capital required to keep these assets keep the free cash flow coming out of these assets partly due to the fact we don't have any well connect cost we don't have to go secure new supplies for these assets and partly because these assets are relatively new as we've been expanding these assets over the last 10 to 15 years.
So very excited about being able to do this and we will be funding this through WMB taking back 100% paid-in-kind units on -- so on a transaction this will add DCF coverage for both '14 and '15.
And as the many projects come online this will continue to support our industry-leading dividend growth beyond 2015 when the PIK units convert.
So said another way that certainly the PIK units give us some room on our coverage here.
So we think this is a really smart transaction for WMB and Bridges to win this tremendous amount of capital investment that we're making over this period.
About $8 billion really starts to kick in in '15 and beyond.
So the planned dropdown of these currently in-service assets is subject to the successful negotiation of the transaction between Williams and Williams Partners.
And because of that we're not going to be pinning down a price a transaction price at this time.
But I will provide you a little more insight into what we're expecting here.
We certainly recognize that a portion of these assets have commodity risk.
And as a result of that the multiple need to be lower than what you might normally expect.
And so just to decode that a little bit at this point we expect that multiple to be below a 7 multiple for this transaction and so not too different than the kind of multiples all-in multiples that we saw with the ethylene cracker.
Even though I'll remind you that these assets for instance the ethane and ethylene business are backed by some fixed rates in terms of capital recovery for the ethane and ethylene projects.
Another really important point I would make on this slide is that our projects like the CNRL Horizon project which is underway and we are certainly up and spending capital dollars on that and as well as our PDH project and potentially the Syncrude processing expansion are staying at WMB and will be great future dropdown candidates for WPZ.
And in fact just to kind of put that all in perspective for you WMB continues to build out a tremendous backlog of future dropdown candidates in both Canada and the Gulf Coast PetChem area that we've talked about in the past.
And so just the projects that are approved and underway.
We've got more than $2 billion of additional dropdown candidates for WMB that would be dropped down to WPZ.
And in addition to that we also have the exciting Bluegrass and Moss Lake JV with Boardwalk.
So we are building out a tremendous amount of dropdown opportunity and that doesn't even include things that we're continuing to develop like the Syncrude opportunity in Canada as well.
So plenty of continued growth for WPZ as WMB continues to develop some major projects.
Moving on to Slide 9.
You can see here the very impressive story of DCF growth from 2012 really as we increase $231 million from '12 up to $1.72 billion in '13 then in '14 going up $630 million to $2.35 billion and then up another $435 million in '15 versus up to $2.78 billion.
So some very impressive growth going on in the space.
And I would just say a couple of key points here.
First of all the coverage ratio that you see here does assume the distribution increase of the 9% this year and 6% in '14 and '15.
So the coverage is over and above that distribution growth.
And importantly in '14 and '15 we are assuming no additional IDR waivers from WMB.
So really working here to get WMB -- or sorry WPZ to a position of the coverage ratio that we're comfortable with.
And certainly the Canadian dropdown and the reduction in the growth rate are the key tools that we've employed here to accomplish that.
The drivers throughout this entire period as you can see are the tremendous amount of portfolio projects and the one dropdown that we have built into WPZ right now.
I'm also going to make a few notes here on just there's been some confusion I think on the IDR waiver for 2013.
And just to be a little clear on that we are only planning on using $140 million of the $200 million that we have previously announced at the cap.
And so what we did say was that we would contribute up to $200 million of waivers from WMB to WPZ as required to maintain a 0.9 coverage ratio.
The good news is because of our better-than-expected performance at WPZ here in the -- about the third quarter and throughout the balance of the year that we do not think that we will need to contribute any more than another $50 million on top of the $90 million that is being put forth today.
So anyway good news on that from both the PZ side and the MB side.
Another comment I'll make here quickly is on the capital side.
And you'll see in the CapEx changes as you review them you'll see we've added about $375 million or about 4.6% increase over the $8 billion of spending during this period.
And there's really 2 primary drivers for that.
First of all a $200 million increase in our Gulfstar 1 project.
And let me remind you that Williams Partners has a 51% share of that project so that'd be $102 million net to our interest.
And so this brings the real net increase in capital spending to about 3.5% over this $8 billion.
And in addition to that though to really describe what's causing that we have 2 new Transco projects that have been added to guidance during this period as well.
And so Transco just continues to see tremendous opportunity on the market and in particular of expanding as people continue to build a demand for the very low-priced natural gas and the tremendous growth opportunities that the Eastern Seaboard represents for Transco.
And so let me move on now to Slide 10.
And this is our scorecard that we continue to show you.
And just a few things to highlight here in terms of changes to this.
First of all you'll see that the third quarter projects which was the Canadian ethane recovery and Transco's Northeast supply link are now online.
And so we're excited about that.
The investment in ACMP I will tell you is not listed here so we have a lot of capital here.
But in addition we have growth coming from the ACMP investments.
And also remind you that with the exception of the Geismar expansion project and the Canadian projects the PDH and the CNRL upgrader these remaining projects are all backed up by fee-based revenues.
And so that is what's continuing to drive that increase in fee-based revenue.
I think what's really impressive here as we continue to add -- in fact we've added one project here the Hillabee Expansion to this Transco portion.
But we also have a smaller project.
It's not listed on here.
But we continue to really build out the Transco expansion projects and we think those are great projects for both WPZ and then ultimately flowing to WMB's cash.
So that's the picture here.
We've already talked about the Gulfstar increase and I think that's the majority of the issues you'll see in the Northeast.
Our spending is actually pretty flat a little bit of movement between the various asset areas but generally pretty flat.
Moving on to Slide 11.
And this is the picture of the Northeast.
Certainly we're making a major reduction in the rate of growth for OBM.
And -- but I certainly want to keep this in perspective here.
We have now grown these volumes in year-to-date '13 versus year-to-date '12 by over 80%.
So despite a lower projected growth rate at OBM our growth here is tremendous.
It continues to be tremendous and we couldn't be more excited to be in what we think is the growth area in the U.S.
for -- from both the Marcellus and the Utica.
And so this growth as you know does not depict our exposure -- economic exposure that we have to both ACMP and the Blue Racer.
And it also doesn't include any growth from Three Rivers.
Yet we're still showing a 73% growth in this period from '13 through '15.
So we've lowered as you can see there pretty significantly OBM but the primary drivers for that being a lot of the private equity groups that were invested out here have now sold out to parties like Chevron and Statoil.
And I would just say that they are more patient investors.
And I think they're waiting to make sure that the infrastructure is available to get both their gas and their NGLs to market.
And so we think they obviously make great customers for Bluegrass and -- but they're going to look at these resources and make sure that they can get their products to market and to good markets before they go into more aggressive drilling programs out here.
And so that's really one of the major changes here as we shifted from more aggressive independents owning some of these resources to more patient investors like Chevron and Statoil.
Moving on to Slide 12.
This is just a big list of all the various accomplishments and the things that continue to go on here.
Certainly the Bluegrass open season and the continued growth on Transco were kind of a big highlights that I would point out to you here.
The Atlantic Sunrise open season was overwhelming I guess is the best term we have to describe it.
And really very very excited about the kind of response and how quickly we're going to be able to bring that to closure given the very strong response there.
And so it's nice to be in a position of having to figure out how you're going to size a project and fit in all of the demand that we saw from that.
So that's a very exciting development during the period.
Additionally we hit a new record high in the Northeast of 2 Bcf per day on a monthly average during the third quarter.
And as well ACMP announced earlier as I'm sure you all saw that they were raising their LP distribution up 23% in the third quarter versus the third quarter of '12.
And that is big news for us because that really accelerates the Williams GP first into the high splits a lot quicker than we were planning on.
So that investment opportunity is proving out very well for us and we continue to be very excited about our relationship with ACMP's management team and our ability to continue to support their tremendous growth opportunities that they have in and around their business.
So couldn't be happier with the way that asset or that investment is performing and certainly thrilled to see the high quality of the ACMP management team that continues to perform very well.
Moving on here to the closing slide.
Just to remind you that we are all in relative to this natural gas infrastructure supercycle.
We think it's the right place to be.
We like a commodity that we think is so low compared to crude oil and other commodities that it is going to continue to drive demand and ultimately that demand is going to drive continued supply growth.
So we really are bullish on our situation where we sit and you're going to continue to see us invest heavily into this space while this opportunity to build out this major infrastructure that will be here for many decades to come gets built.
And we don't intend to back off of our heavy investment cycle while the opportunity presents itself.
We also continue to be excited about our 20% WMB cash dividend growth through '15.
And I think if you really stop and look at how all of these big projects are coming on in '15 and the continued growth cycle that we see beyond that I think you'll see that we've got good reason to continue to support a very strong dividend growth beyond 2015.
And again would just remind you that we've got over $1.1 billion of DCF growth in '13 through '15.
And this is not based on acquisitions that we might speculate on.
It's not based on projects that we're speculating we might win.
And these are projects that we are out and developing and building right now and all identified and contacted.
So very excited about where we stand today.
Excited about some of the changes we made here for the third quarter and look forward to hearing your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In last quarter's data book you guided towards $110 million to $200 million of segment profit plus DD&amp;A for the WMB NGL and Petchem Services in 2014.
Can you help us reconcile between that number and the $200 million DCF number you gave for the dropdown? Is most of that driven by the higher propylene prices you are now using in commodity assumption? Don Chapelle.
Yes it's largely an improvement in margins in Canada as well as lower expected corporate allocated costs.
And that's just based on formulas that we continue to implement.
So our new organization structure that we announced at the beginning of the year is I think bearing some fruit.
And our costs are somewhat less than perhaps what we expected before in the Canadian business.
It's getting a bit less of that.
So I think those are the -- or the NGL Petchem Services business excuse me in making a more broad statement is getting a bit less of that.
So those are the primary drivers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how should we think about the potential timing for the additional dropdown that Canada the 2 other off-gas processing contracts the 1 -- maybe 2 PDH facilities maybe Bluegrass.
Would you be open to drop it as soon as it's cash flow generating which may not be a lot in the beginning? Or would you wait until it's a little more mature? I think it's too soon to answer that question.
I think certainly be eligible to drop at any time quite frankly.
But we think that the right answer is to build it at Williams and then drop it once it's in service.
And I think we have to take a look at the cash flow profile and determine if it's right on start-up or if it's some time after start-up as the cash flows ramp up.
So I think that's a question that's a ways out.
It's couple of years out at the earliest and we'll continue to study that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what are the tax implications for dropping the Canadian assets? Are you guys subject to any repatriation tax? We expect -- and I think you'll see it on our 10-Q to record a tax provision of just over $200 million cash taxes of about $140 million in the near term.
And so it's really an acceleration.
We expected that at some point that we'd have repatriation and we'd have a tax to pay.
This will accelerate those cash taxes to the tune of $140 million.
We'll be able to use excess cash balances cash balances we have on hand to pay the $140 million.
And then after that we'll have the Canadian tax.
Right now the Canadian tax rate is very low perhaps 0 because much like in the U.S.
we have high capital spend and accelerated depreciation that's shielding taxes.
But at some point we'll pay Canadian taxes and we'll get a U.S.
tax credit for the taxes paid in Canada and we'll pay the differential of U.S.
tax.
So fairly -- so the onetime cash tax cost is about $140 million and then beyond that it will be some incremental amount of U.S.
tax over and above what we would typically pay in Canada.
Canadian statutory rate is 25%.
So again it's factored but it's not huge relative to the value of the assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay very helpful.
How comfortable are you with the new numbers at OBM? Are we largely derisked here? And also the other segment costs in the Northeast segment seem to be really high.
Is there anything onetime here in nature? Or is this kind of more of a run rate we should be going off of? Sure this is Frank.
I think on the -- relative to the Northeast in the volume I would say that we have probably derisked that some.
And really what I would say is the primary factors.
I would call 2013 kind of the lost year.
I mean we really didn't get much volume growth.
And basically what we've -- we're anticipating and what our producers are projected is kind of push kind of what we were expecting in '13 and kind of roll in most of the drilling plans forward.
On the cost side if you look quarter-to-quarter we did have -- looks like a pretty significant increase in quarter-to-quarter other segment costs and expenses around $22 million.
But in that number is -- some of that 9 -- the $9 million adjustment that's down below and we had the continued liability that we booked.
We also had some slip repairs that hit us in the third quarter as well as some writeoffs of some investments that we started to undertake in OBM but then did follow through with those.
Or we much changed the project scopes though we had some costs that we had to -- that we're capitalizing we've had to take to expense.
So I think going forward we'll have a run rate that's less than what we saw in the third quarter.
In OBM we have a liquids system a gas system processing plant and fractionation.
And we've really kind of set up our organization to have some of those assets in place in 2013.
Those assets aren't place in 2013.
We won't be looking at material or much staffing increases as we get into '14.
So really we're going to kind of hold and redistribute our [indiscernible] once our assets [indiscernible] and we'll have better defined after the construction and commissioning is completed.
So we did have some items in Q3 that drove that number up but our run rate should be less than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question for me.
The spread between Texas and Louisiana ethylene prices have obviously been a focus given the pipeline between the 2 states that's down.
How are your insurance proceeds going to account for this? I think it was initially thought that the pipeline will be down through year end but now I'm hearing that it's going to be pushed out further than that.
Christine this is Don.
The insurance policies provide coverage in terms of the lost value in production.
So we'll calculate the -- we know what the lost production is.
We'll take a look at the market prices and that would be the basis for our claim.
With respect to the pipeline that's something we're continuing to study to determine what effects it may or may not have.
So I'll just pause there and perhaps -- I don't know if Alan or John want to add anything regarding pricing on the pipeline.
Research Division</strong> Well just because I asked because are you going to be getting Mont Bellevue pricing or Louisiana pricing? I mean there's like a $0.20 spread between the 2 points last time I checked.
Yes and perhaps I could make some comments there.
This is John Dearborn.
If we look at the dynamics in the market there right with our plant down and Chevron's Evangeline pipeline out of service the Texas market has got length and Louisiana is short right? So that's what we always see and that's what's driving the premium between the 2 markets.
As we look forward and we bring Geismar back up and we expect that some time Evangeline will be back in service that same market dynamic is going to diminish in its significance.
But let's remember also that second quarter next year we move into the industry's ethylene cracker turnaround season and I believe there are about 4 crackers that go into turnaround then.
And so as we take a look at all that in total we're looking forward at strong demand [indiscernible] which I think is going to support very strong ethylene margins into next year and through next year if we could take you into that line of reasoning Christine.
Again this is Don.
And I just remind everyone that this pipeline outage is a short-term issue.
And we don't expect that to extend all that long.
And recall also that's a Chevron asset.
So I think for -- the true story that you'll have to look to Chevron for that as well.
And we'll go next to Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe a high-level question on the Northeast infrastructure issues.
I think you guys are probably in one of the better -- or have one of the better vantage points on the pipe side.
So what are you seeing in the Northeast what alleviates the differentials and what's your view of the differentials going forward? Holly I'll take that.
This is Alan.
First of all I think there's been a lot of focus on just the Northeast dry area.
And certainly there is more infrastructure over in the Southwest and over in the Utica area but we're certainly seeing continued a lot of development over there as well.
And I would say a lot of pressure has come on -- came on here in the third quarter from 2 factors one being that certain pipes were not yet opened.
So Tennessee expansion wasn't online yet and so that we think will help alleviate.
But as well a lot of new gas came on in the quarter that wasn't necessarily from drilling but it was from infrastructure tie-ins not necessarily on our systems.
But some of the adjacent systems really worked off a lot of the well connects and a lot of the pending completions.
So we saw a tremendous amount of gas come on -- trying to come on in the third quarter and it was coming into the face of the market that was lower.
And so the Northeast Supply Link Project is now up and running and so -- on Transco so that's 250.
I can tell you that's hardly a drop in the bucket compared to the kind of demand that we're seeing for the infrastructure being built out of the area.
But I do believe that the fall shoulders out there are going to be a little worse than the spring shoulders because this is kind of a rare situation up here where you have the Leidy Storage which is a very large market area storage that refills in the spring but of course was full in the fall.
And so nowhere for that gas to go either into those local markets or to the South.
I think pipelines like Transco are -- now make or got plenty of support for new infrastructure to debottleneck systems to be able to carry markets to the South.
And certainly the Atlantic Sunrise open season was indicative of that.
And as well of course the Constitution project we think will alleviate some of the challenges up in the Northeast area.
But I will just say this.
People that are not paying attention to that and not planning for their capital expansion are taking some pretty big bets I would say and some pretty big risk.
And those that are continuing to plan and plan well I think will be the winners at the end of the day and will be able to access growing markets on systems like Transco to the South.
And so I think we're getting after it and as usual the market -- we tend to wait a little too late to get the infrastructure built.
And we'll probably be having the same discussion on Bluegrass here in '15 before that capacity comes on to get the NGLs out of there as well.
But I certainly think the market has gotten a strong signal from the gas-on-gas competition it saw this quarter and it seems to be responding to support continued infrastructure development out of the area.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then I guess you gave an explanation for the I guess weakness in the Northeast volumes compared to maybe what you'd initially forecasted.
Are -- in terms of these new customers or now the majors are -- what are you assuming for growth in '14 and '15? I guess my point are you comfortable that your new targets have some of their plans factored in? It is.
It's really kind of built from the ground up looking at the drilling plans that we've discussed with the producers.
And so we feel pretty comfortable.
I would certainly -- wouldn't try to tell anybody it's not without risk because there's a lot of continued infrastructure development to be built out there.
But I would tell you that we feel pretty comfortable with the schedule and the detail that we built behind the volumes at this point.
And so it really is kind of a grounds-up review from each of our producers and their drilling plans out there.
I do think there -- perhaps there's some opportunity to improve on that.
If we saw some better pricing signals and people become convinced the Bluegrass is going to be -- get built we might see some even better development into the '15 timeframe as people gear up for that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you kind of led me into my final question.
Can you just maybe explain the open season for Bluegrass and how these commitments will really work on the Bluegrass pipeline and the LPG terminal? Well I would just say that the open season for the pipeline is completely separate from the fractionation and the export terminal discussions.
Having said that we recognize that customers don't want a pipeline to nowhere.
And so that's why we've been working so hard at developing both the storage the terminal and the export facilities is that we've got to be able to provide customers with a comprehensive solution.
And I would -- the thing I'm fairly encouraged by in that regard is with the discussions we're having on the export side we're seeing interest in customers wanting to know where that supply is going to come from as well.
And so I think the market's really starting to come together in terms of the supply side and the demand side.
And we see that as one of our critical roles in the industry right now is bringing together that strong demand that we're seeing from international players back upstream to our customers on the upstream side and being the party providing the infrastructure in between.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not all comprehensive in terms of at all getting built.
Well I would say that at the end of the day people are going to want to know what their frac deal is.
But that's a -- just because of regulatory process that's a bifurcated process.
So we deal with them in the open season and we make sure that everybody has a chance to weigh in on the capacity that they want and the terms of the capacity they want on the regulated side.
And so we make sure that's a nondiscriminatory process.
And then second to that then there's a discussion around what people's needs are for storage fractionation and export capacity.
But I would say that most customers are going to want to know what their deal is on both sides of that.
So on one hand they're separated for regulatory purposes and on the other hand people need to know what their downstream services are going to be.
We'll take our next question from Stephen Maresca from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just sticking on Laurel Mountain and OBM for a second and to be more specific you took Northeast adjusted segment profit and DD&amp;A down about 20% in '14 and '15.
Can you help us understand what changed so materially in such a short period from last quarter's forecast to now? I know touched upon it Alan.
But is it as simple as just your drilling plans are off because of the change in ownership? And as a subset to that it seems like you dropped the '16 and '17 kind of bar chart forecast you had in your slide deck in terms of gathering volumes for the Marcellus.
Did -- is that a sign or do you not feel as comfortable forecasting that anymore in light of the changes in ownership from private equity to bigger majors? I would just say our -- what we're seeing from the majors is as I said just a more careful effort on their part to make sure they maximize the NPV of their reserves and not just to quick-drive towards IPs [ph] and volumes.
And so -- sorry IPs and reserve growth.
And so I would just say that we've -- what shifted really was having -- sitting down and wanting to make sure that we weren't investing capital too far out in front of the reserve packages that we're seeing there and not taking on additional risk.
And so that resulted in sitting down and getting very detailed granular analysis on what their drilling plans were.
And as you know that's a little harder to predict because the motives of the majors are more around allocating capital around and so it's a little harder to predict than somebody who just has one resource to go develop.
And so I would just say we've gotten a lot more conservative in our approach towards that forecast and it's just built from the ground up.
And that probably is -- the major shift that we made Stephen was moving from a resource capability play to a detailed analysis of what the producers are actually doing and their actual drilling plans.
And Steve we ceased to project '16 and '17 given the challenges we've had in projecting the next couple of years.
So we've -- we're really focused on projecting '14 and '15 and just conforming the volume forecast to our guidance period and really not trying to get too far out given all the variables that we see in the Northeast.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
Moving to Bluegrass I just have a couple of questions here.
Alan do you have the same level of confidence in this project getting completed as you did on the last call given the large competitor project proposal? And can you talk at all -- ballpark types of project returns you would expect? And then I have a second one just on the funding after that.
Well I would say on the confidence level I think this might surprise some people.
But the confidence -- my confidence level is not really all that driven at this point by the competition by the competing project just because we think we're so far ahead in terms of development of the project and details and how far ahead we are in terms of getting project developed.
I think the -- so I would just say that's not really that big a factor frankly.
I think the challenge that still remains is producers knowing their drilling plans being committed to the drilling plans.
And so I think we may get a lot of commitment but we're going to need to be weighing how solid that those volumes will be and how much we can count on those volumes being there.
And so that's what we're in the process of doing with the open season.
And as I've said before we're very excited about Bluegrass.
We think it's a really key piece of infrastructure for the Marcellus and the Utica.
And we think that it really really needs to be installed at the end of 2015 to protect our investment on the upstream side and other investments or other more indirect investments that we have up there.
So we think it's very important and we think Bluegrass is the only one that can really meet that kind of time line.
So that gives us a lot of confidence but we're also -- we got a lot of projects to invest in and we're going to make sure that it's a sensible investment for us before we plow -- start really plowing the big money into it in the first quarter of 2014.
And Steve this is Don.
In terms of financing again we have a partner at Bluegrass.
And I'd also note that we've been approached by others industry players and financial players that would like to invest in the project and we may or may not choose to partner with others.
But beyond that will be a combination of debt and equity to maintain our credit rating goals which we have previously consistently espoused as investment-grade ratings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One follow-up there.
Have you thought about something at all doing something with your Access GPL [ph] stake to monetize that and create some liquidity? Or is that not something that's on the table right now? All right.
I think all of our assets are things that we evaluate all of the time and certainly those are assets that we continue to look at as well.
So I certainly don't want to create an expectation but we certainly look at all the levers that we have to pull as we look at potential financing.
And we'll go next to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Not to stay too much on the Northeast GMP but we do have a pretty significant cut in EBITDA but not really any change in the CapEx forecast from what I can tell from last quarter.
So we're effectively saying we're getting lower returns on capital.
I must -- I'm missing.
Is there any reason why the CapEx budget may not have gone down given the slower volume ramp? Yes this is Frank.
What we've done is we basically cut more of the capital out in the out years.
We've taken out the third train frac train.
We've pushed out the second third and fourth processing plants.
So we've kind of -- basically we're focused on installing the -- let's say those foundational assets the second frac expansion the stabilization plant the deethanizers the ethane pipeline.
Once we get all of those assets in place in by 2Q of '14 we'll -- pretty much of that majority of those what I would say is the foundational assets in place.
Some of the assets have installed costs have gone up some so that's part of the reason we've kind of had -- we haven't had the 2014 capital change.
If you look most of it shifted from '13 to '14 and that's the representative of the shift in in-service date.
And then most of our growth capital has been pushed out to match the volumes being pushed out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
The -- just shifting over to Geismar.
Can you give us an update on where you are with some of the regulatory side of that in terms of the -- whether it's OSHA or [indiscernible]the other folks sitting there looking at it? Sure.
I'll have John Dearborn answer that for us.
Sure and thanks very much for the question.
Our relationship with both the agencies remains extremely strong and excellent.
And we're committed to keeping it up certainly that way.
With the government shutdown that we all witnessed here the last few weeks or so we've suffered a bit of a delay all right as that shut down the CSB and the OSHA work for a bit of a while.
However prior to that shutdown we had all the necessary protocols in place to continue our work around the propane propylene fractionator that was damaged.
And so we've continued our work and we don't expect to suffer any delay in what we're doing as a result.
One of the other things though that I'd like to bring to your attention in order to continue to build this relationship with OSHA and CSB is you might have noticed that we've released the findings of the Williams investigation and we're taking care to communicate those findings to all of the important stakeholders of course our employees being one of them.
But we took the time and effort to communicate that to OSHA and CSB and of course they were grateful to that -- to us for that.
Bottom line is we still expect the OSHA to issue their report around the beginning of the New Year and that's the next important milestone I think relative to the federal regulatory agencies.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then last one for me just on the costs.
You did actually take out a lot of costs it looks like out of the West segment.
And I'm just wondering if we should think of that as a sustainable new run rate? Or is there any kind of onetime lower OpEx you may have had there? I think -- this is Allison Bridges.
Yes we have seen some lower cost especially as a result of some of the reorganization that Don spoke about earlier and some are the allocated costs that we get in the plants.
And we'll take our next question from Carl Kirst with BMO.
Just actually a few clarifications of things that were said prior and maybe first starting on the Northeast on OBM.
And Frank I think you mentioned this but just to be clear that essentially the pushout that we have seen in some of the milestones the Moundsville fractionator et cetera that is all very deliberate with respect to matching up to industry activity right? That's got nothing to do with execution is that correct? I would say that the Moundsville frac train 3 is probably associated more with preserving that decision to be in line with the Bluegrass decision when we make that determination.
I would say that moving the Moundsville frac train from 3 or 4Q of '13 into 2Q '14 is a function of just physical execution of the projects that we've seen in that area.
So to be clear on that the demand is there for the first expansion or the Phase 2 Moundsville and it's a matter of getting that project completed.
The decision for laying down third is just because we think Bluegrass will reduce the need for local fractionation.
And so we think that we're becoming more and more confident on the timing of Bluegrass such that we don't need to have both the local frac and a Bluegrass solution.
Yes definitely the second frac train at Moundsville with 30 000 barrels a day is definitely needed as well as the stabilization plants and the deethanizers.
So those are all on track for completion in '14 to support the drilling programs in place.
Okay.
No I -- that's helpful.
And then Alan just to kind of go back to the Bluegrass and understanding the commercial sensitivity of where we are right now but I guess as you guys have opened the biddings -- the open season here.
Is the general approach a minimum take-or-pay type of commitment? Or isn't there something where for the right price you're willing to take volume risk? Yes because that's a regulated asset we offered out a I think very intelligent response to the market that allows us a considerably higher rate for people that are just wanting to dedicate acreage but not make volume commitments.
And then a very attractive rate to the degree people are willing to make a volume commitment.
And there's various steps in between that.
And so we basically provided a menu for customers and then we still -- once we get all that built into our analysis in terms of those options then we can decide whether that we think that degree of support justifies the investment and the project.
So it is a menu and it's like I said a very attractive rate if you compare it to like an ATEX ethane where it's a pay -- ship-or-pay kind of obligation on one hand.
Then on the other hand up to a volume dedication with -- or sorry an acreage dedication have much higher rate but one that gives producer flexibility.
Okay appreciate the clarification.
And then maybe just last question back on Geismar and the business interruption insurance.
And I guess now that we have $50 million recorded agreed to I guess by the insurance companies and I guess the number is refined a little bit more from sort of the initial preliminary estimate.
Don do you feel more comfortable around the uncertainty range if you will around that number today versus say for instance on the second quarter call? Meaning have there been deliberations with the insurance companies that have tightened perhaps the deviation of where that number can go to? Or is it basically each time a new claim is filed it's a new claim a new process so to speak? No I think we feel comfortable with our claim amount.
Clearly we have a good read of the policy and we certainly know the lost production the actual amounts to be determined based on the market prices and we would have realized.
So that'll be dependent on what happens on the market over the coming quarters.
But certainly in terms of the volume the lost production we know that pretty darn well.
So we think we've got a solid basis for our estimate here.
I think the initial $50 million payment evidence is good faith on the part of the insurers.
They stepped up and paid us $50 million in advance of our actual claims because our out of pocket around the physical damage was not that substantial yet and we only had 13 days of covered loss under business interruption during the month of August.
So they actually I think made a good-faith early payment.
So I think that's a good sign.
Our next covered loss under business interruption would be for a partial month in October so kind of the end of October.
That's when we assume that the expanded plan will come back to service.
So we'll file a claim for the month of October during the month of November and then we would to expect it will take the insurers a month or so to respond to us.
And we're -- and that will be the process every month.
So partial month in October filed in November give the insurers a bit of time to review that claim and respond to it.
And then we'll have a full month loss in the month of November file that claim in December and again the insurers a bit of time to respond to that.
So I think from a process standpoint it's pretty well established.
I think volumetrically we know what our losses are and we're mitigating the losses to the best of our ability the economic losses.
And then I think we'll see where market prices turn out.
But again we've outlined in our guidance what we expect the lost profits to be and the market price assumptions we've used there and that's really what's guiding this claim.
And next we'll go to Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> We saw on the Leidy Southeast project most of the shippers on that project were downstream or LDC.
Are you seeing more upstream demand as you've gone out with the open season on Atlantic Sunrise? Yes.
Alan would you like me to take that? Please Rory.
Thank you.
Yes Bradley this is Rory Miller.
It has been changing and there was an earlier question about pricing in the Northeast.
Of course we're looking through a knot whole a bit there.
But certainly what we've on the -- our current Leidy system that moves about 3 Bcf a day there's much more gas than that trying to get into that line every day.
We've got 8 Bcf a day of interconnections there.
And so there's a lot of gas-on-gas competition for things that are playing in the spot market and the prices have been at huge discounts to the Henry Hub.
So I think that really is leading up to the answer to your question and that's that we've seen a lot stronger response from the producer community.
That being said the people that made requests within the open season were fairly balanced between the market side and the supply side.
But the producers were definitely stepping up in a much bigger way than what we've historically seen on Transco.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you alluded earlier to having interest from potential partners in the Bluegrass project.
And in the past with projects like Constitution you've obviously brought E&amp;P partners into the project to secure volumes.
Have you found so far that there are E&amp;P shippers who are maybe making their participation in Bluegrass contingent on getting a significant equity stake in the project? No we really haven't seen that from the key customers that we're talking to because it's such a big investment.
Mostly -- usually when we have the parties that are wanting to take equity it's a project that's fairly specific to their needs.
So for instance Constitution with Cabot.
That project was mostly -- capacity mostly taken by Cabot and they wanted to make sure they were involved and had a stake in making sure the project was executed well and as well enjoyed some of the economic benefit of their capacity obligations.
I think in Bluegrass we've got a variety of different shippers such that it's not enough -- nobody has a dominant position in the pipeline like we've seen on some of those other assets.
Having said that I would tell you there's a lot of interest from more strategic players I would say in wanting to have an interest.
But it's likely not going to be the -- from the E&amp;P side for the reasons I stated.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the MOU that you alluded to last year when you acquired the ACMP interest that Chesapeake would -- at least intended to commit volumes is that still an agreement that's in place as it pertains to Bluegrass? Yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just jumping to the Canadian side just in rough numbers maybe when you think about the top line in the Canadian off-gas processing business how much of the revenue is there? And I realized it's kind of a key polar arrangement in the off-gas processing but what percentage of that margin is coming from the olefins side versus from just the NGL side? We'll have to get back to you on that.
It's -- that mix has moved a little bit just recently as now we're starting up the ethane recovery plant.
And that business as I remind you is a floor -- has a margin on it that has a floor that we're operating at because ethane is it's based off of Bellevue ethane.
And therefore that will be a fixed fee that will not be commodity-sensitive.
But we can get back to you some detail.
I don't have that right off the top of my head here.
That would -- and it is John.
The precise number for the majority would be NGLs and the minority being the -- being olefins up in Canada today.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one final one.
Looking through the guidance and there are a couple of other questions that alluded to this point in the Western segment you mentioned some of the things in the field that you were doing more efficiently.
And certainly it looks as though there was a big move up in 2013 full year EBITDA guidance and fairly sizable move in '14 and then a little bit smaller move revising upwards in 2015.
Maybe just qualitatively if you could talk about why is it that the benefit from those cost-cutting or efficiency gain initiatives that you're taking gave a larger -- provided you with a larger step-up in guidance in '13 and '14 than it did in '15? Well I think what you're really seeing there is just a lack of confidence in drilling volumes continuing out West is really what's driving most of that.
And so the cost savings I think are very apparent to us there.
But I would just say I think most of that is driven by an expected decline in volumes out West.
And we'll go next to Curt Launer with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I may one more back to the Marcellus.
In the 10-Q you're referring to less favorable economics in the Western region.
And I think that's been discussed a lot already in this call.
But from the standpoint of the lower volumes in '13 what are the conditions what are you seeing relative to your discussions with producers that could make that materially better in '14 and '15? Clearly we think about it from the standpoint of NGL takeaway capacity boosting the netbacks.
Or is it a question of natural gas prices needing to be higher that would spur that activity? Yes this is Frank.
I'm assuming you're referring to the Western part of the Marcellus...
Research Division</strong> That's correct.
Or our Eastern business up there? I would say that the biggest thing we see relative to the Western area and volumes is more a function of what the ultimate netback might be for those areas especially as you get into Northwest Pennsylvania Northeast Ohio some of those areas that are very infrastructure-challenged.
I think in the -- our area especially in the OEM area I think we have -- we saw an improvement in the netbacks when we brought our fractionation train on and we're going to see continued improvement in the netbacks to the producers when we bring this stabilization plan and the next fracturing as well as rail load facility.
So for us in OBM I think it's going to be able to show its consistent ability to get the commodities sold into the market.
And I think that's what's going to support in our area we're currently operating.
But I do think the Western part of the Marcellus it's going to see -- and even Ohio it's going to see -- we'll see some -- some of us could see some of the same pinching of basis relative to net gas sales and NGL prices as supplies outstrip being able to get those commodities out of there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And switching gears to the Canadian assets.
I wanted to ask if there's anything you could tell us that will help us model that into the outlook here.
You mentioned the PIK units certainly but what would be the expectation relative to debt as being part of the financing package as the assets are dropped down? Curt this is Don.
Again I think as Alan mentioned we expect the multiple not to exceed 7x on the purchase price.
We expect it to be all equity.
That's advantageous from a tax standpoint to Williams.
Again we defer taxes on that basis other than this tax that's triggered by changing the ownership -- structure of the Canadian assets to WPZ.
So that's really the driver there.
I hope that responds to your question.
And we'll go next to Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> Is there a fine on Northeast -- I'm sorry to keep harping on it.
But I think you talked in all those slides you're deferring $200 million a day processing out of '15 into later period and 30 000 barrels a day of frac.
Yet we don't see CapEx go down.
Can you reconcile that? Yes I think what we've done is we need the second fractioning.
If you look at our 2014 volumes our 2015 volumes in OBM we will need to start to put the second $200 million a day train that drove in.
But a lot of that balanced plant work has been done as far as the initial work.
So we don't have a significant significant requirement.
But we have pushed it out to where we may not have to spend those dollars until 2016 given the current volume forecast that we have today.
So you have -- that's probably the only asset that we've kind of shoved out of the '15 into '16 relative to kind of assets that you've seen before.
Research Division</strong> I think the frac capacity sound like 30 000 barrels a day also.
That's the other thing yes that I mentioned earlier.
Research Division</strong> So are you saying that the CapEx -- you've already spent the dollars on that and so that's why we don't see CapEx coming down? Well we purchased the frac train.
So we have that in our inventory wasn't going to redeploy that in either some of our other opportunities that we have going on today whether it be up to 3RM [ph].
But today most of the CapEx -- to get the kind of the investments that you see as -- on the slide Slide 8 most all of that capital will be deployed in 2014.
We have a little bit of capital in 2015 that prepared to get the second Oak Grove facility on.
That one would be in our 15 plan.
But beyond that we've pushed out frac train or processing plants 3 and 4 and some of the other things that we've had in our 15 plants.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then this is -- it's smaller in the scheme of things and I don't have all the numbers in front of me.
But looking at the maintenance CapEx in this guidance it's down by $85 million over the 3-year period and it looks like the last -- probably the last 4 quarters maintenance CapEx keeps coming down.
In an aggregate it's material relative to the size of maintenance CapEx.
Can you talk about what is it driving that and your thoughts behind the maintenance CapEx? Sure.
As I mentioned earlier we're still spending a very large amount of our profit particularly within the pipes.
In fact over 35% of our segment profit we're putting back into maintenance CapEx if you take the 3-year maintenance CapEx and put that over the -- our segment profit.
And so very significant amounts still going into that.
But I would say that we invested very heavily in both '11 and '12 in catching up and beating the deadline that we had relative to some regulatory requirements for getting some of the asset integrity work done on the pipeline.
So we had kind of a lot of that capital squeezed in to the '11 and '12 period.
And as well we also had things like we had some work that we had to get done for the Clean Air Act on -- so on our compression on our major pipelines that we had to get done as well.
And so again those kind of culminated in '11 and '12.
And so we've been working that hard in terms of getting done what we needed to get done for those timeframes.
But it's allowed us a little bit of relaxation here in terms of that heavy capital spending in the guidance period that we have before us.
Research Division</strong> I understand why it was higher in '11 and '12.
But what I don't understand is why the guidance keeps coming down for '13 through '15 because I mean that's past.
So why would the guidance keep coming down? I don't think I can -- sorry I didn't follow your question there.
Well a couple of things.
One with the continued decline in volumes in the West we have less maintenance CapEx.
And we've made some decisions as I mentioned earlier for doing things like taking the Lybrook plant out of service.
So some of our older fleets out West is a result of the volume reduction and those older plants as you can imagine suck up maintenance capital.
And so those changes have been made to our Midstream maintenance CapEx and on the gas pipes.
One thing we did do -- and I'm not sure this is a major driver but it's certainly embedded in here is we had some pressure-testing obligations that we were trying to get all done by '18.
We took a really close look at those in terms of really where we needed to reduce risk on the system and negotiate it with FEMZA [ph] to -- and got them to understand that really the better risk reduction was spreading out that timeframe on some of that pipeline integrity work.
So that spread things out a little more versus where we had some dollar spending in there in '18.
So that's a little bit of that reduction on gas pipes.
But I think the major reduction you see is really on the Midstream side.
And it really is the teams out West working pretty hard to reduce our maintenance capital out West and it's resulted in reducing volume.
Alan? Yes.
One other item too that's probably worth mentioning to Becca here the -- with the changing flow patterns on the Transco system where we're now getting a lot of our supply or much of our supply from the Northeast as opposed to just the Gulf Coast.
The middle portion of our system is the compression on that portion of the system is running much less frequently.
So we're having a lot less hours on those units.
We're having a lot less maintenance there and our turbine change-outs are being able to pushed out in the future years.
So as we kind of put that whole new dynamic into the equation that's also a bit of a significant impact.
Great point.
Thanks Rory.
Yes and this is Allison Bridges.
And I would also just like to add to the lower sort of maintaining the facilities.
We do have some pretty significant reduction in well connects than we had previously had.
So at least for the next few years that's continuing to come down.
We'll go next to Selman Akyol with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the Canadian assets in your assumption there of the $200 million what capacity utilizations have you guys assumed? They're flexible.
There are -- there's actually 3 assets there to be thinking about.
One is the -- is liquids extraction plant up in Fort McMurray.
The other is the pipeline and the other is the fractionator.
In terms of our operating in the next year and future years the fractionator is going to be running near to full capacity.
We'll need some incremental expansion in order to accommodate CNRL plant and the liquid extraction plant up in Fort McMurray when the upgrader is running -- be running pretty much full out because it's a dedicated to that facility.
I'll take recovery point.
I'm sorry? I'll take recovery point.
Can you do the other? Let's partner.
I would also add to that.
Normally we build into that about a 97.5% run time.
So in terms of how much that's up and that's consistent with our typical capabilities.
And perhaps you can speak to the pipeline? Yes the pipeline will have a little bit of excess capacity as we -- we'll have some room on it as we bring on these other projects into the future.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great And then just to confirm are you still looking for an April 1 start on Geismar? Yes that is correct.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Armstrong at this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
We are blessed to have such a great portfolio of growth -- major growth projects to pursue and those keep coming on.
And that gives us confidence in our ability to continue to grow our WMB dividend and our distributable cash flow at WPZ for many years to come.
And we certainly are excited to make the step we're making on the Canadian asset dropdown which moves us closer to a pure play.
But we also retain the benefit of some very significant dropdown candidates for WPZ in the future.
So we think structurally we're very well positioned.
And we think in terms of our business opportunities they just couldn't be more robust.
And the team is very excited about continuing to execute and deliver on this tremendous cash flow growth.
So thank you very much for joining us this morning and for the great questions.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dana.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our websites williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases with related schedules and the accompanying analyst packages; the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily; and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
In addition to Alan we also have the 4 leaders of our operating areas with us.
Jim Scheel leads our Northeastern G&amp;P operating area; Allison Bridges leads our Western area Rory Miller leads the Atlantic Gulf area; and John Dearborn is here from our NGL &amp; Petchem Services operating area.
Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we've reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Thank you John and good morning.
Let me welcome all of you who joined us today for our fourth quarter results.
We'll also talk about our major developments and our outlook today.
We do have a lot to cover today concerning items like Geismar Gulfstar Bluegrass our Northeast volume growth and now our big exciting project Atlantic Sunrise.
But before I turn to our fourth quarter results and our full year let me provide a brief update on where we are with Corvex and Soroban.
As you know in December Corvex and Soroban disclosed their interest and each having representation on the Williams' board.
Since that time we've been engaged in discussions with both Corvex and Soroban related to the company's strategic plan to drive continued value creation and of course we look forward to continuing those discussions with those parties.
We do have a long track record here at Williams and in fact in recent years have been a leader in taking advantage of transformational and structural opportunities that create value for our shareholders and we continue to welcome input towards our goal of enhancing shareholder value for this great company.
And so with that let's turn to our fourth quarter results.
Before we get into the details of fourth quarter performance for WPZ I'd like to remind you of our strategic focus to grow our exposure to fee-based revenues.
We are accomplishing this by continuing to develop large-scale infrastructure that will be critical to connecting the fastest-growing supplies to the fastest-growing markets for natural gas and natural gas derivatives.
And in fact this train is just gaining steam as we saw an 8% increase year-over-year in fee-based revenues at WPZ and we expect even faster growth into 2014 and '15.
In the fourth quarter WPZ enjoyed this growth trend despite harsh winter weather conditions in the Rockies and in fact we had another record for DCF growth in the fourth quarter of $509 million up 26% over the previous fourth quarter.
This strong performance exceeded our internal expectations in spite of about $43 million lower in NGL margins.
One of the drivers for the better performance was lower costs and maintenance capital expenses.
About 1 year ago we reorganized the company to enable a flatter management structure and better cost efficiencies by deploying our very best knowledge of things like asset integrity and procurement across our entire operations.
And as you can see by analyzing our numbers we've been able to drive the combination of our O&amp;M and G&amp;A expenses lower despite managing tremendous growth in our business.
I want to be very clear that our lower maintenance cost in our maintenance CapEx area has been driven by better efficiencies and fewer required repairs not lower standards of care across our facilities.
WMB also -- moving on to WMB we also enjoyed an 8% increase year-over-year in the segment profit plus DD&amp;A for the quarter with Williams Partners carrying much of that increase.
One disappointment for the fourth quarter was the financial performance for our WMB NGL &amp; Petchem Services segment primarily driven by Canada where third-party outages dramatically impacted supplies available for Fort McMurray facility.
But that project is up and running very well now and is now exceeding our expectations for both recoveries and volumes as we really have that business up and running very smoothly now with the ethane recovery portion that we added in that business in the third and fourth quarter of last year.
So we look forward to that project becoming the driver for WPZ's results with the drop-down and we expect that to be completed very soon here actually at the end of this month.
So of course we appreciate the great work the team at ACMP is doing to grow their business in a steady and predictable manner and of course this also helped us outperform the year for the fourth quarter.
Moving on to the DCF growth and our expectations for growth looking into '14 and '15.
We do continue to expect strong DCF growth in fact greater than 50% from 2013 to 2015.
This extraordinary growth rate is on the backs of large capital investments that we've been making over the last couple of years most of which -- a lot of which has been financed by equity and our organization is very focused right now on executing this large capital program that is essential to this growth.
We updated our commodity prices and our latest assumptions on all of our key projects for 2014.
With the degree of volatility we've seen recently in commodity prices there are a lot of different impacts in our guidance but in summary our guidance range is unchanged from the third quarter.
We have great visibility around the projects that we expect will drive this growth.
We continue to hit key execution milestones that serve to substantially derisk these major projects and I'll talk a little bit about that in some more detail in a few of our projects.
Where we did update our guidance is for growth CapEx where we have added some noteworthy changes and we'll see that here on the next slide.
And so you can see for the WPZ increasing CapEx we've got initial spending on some new projects so projects like Atlantic Sunrise and Dalton.
And this higher spending reaffirms our belief in growth potential of our business both within and well beyond our guidance period.
2 of the new projects we've listed here Atlantic Sunrise and Dalton are on our Transco system where we continue to see strong demand for our services and really I think in very positive way here not just coming from the supply side but from the market and the demand side as well.
I expect you saw our news release this morning with some additional detail on Atlantic Sunrise and we'll hit that topic here in a few minutes.
Gunflint which is mentioned here is a deepwater tie-back to our new Gulfstar One facility and our team on Gulfstar have done a terrific job of making some modifications onto the top sides there at Gulfstar to be able to accommodate the easy tie-back of Gunflint.
So we're really excited about the way our team continue to execute on Gulfstar One.
And WPZ will be adding CapEx for the new Redwater projects.
So these are expansions at Redwater that will accommodate things like the CNRL Horizon volumes that will be coming in and so we've added capital in there for that as well.
We're also incorporating $175 million higher capital spend for the Geismar expansion on higher costs that result in part from delay in the restart.
For WMB specifically you'll see that we have lowered our growth CapEx to reflect a shift in timing to mid- to late 2016 on the joint venture Bluegrass pipeline project to better match the needs of the market.
We remain very excited about the Bluegrass pipeline project and I continue to believe that it's the best solution available in the market.
And what I can tell you in terms of where we are is that the activity that we continue to see and the input and discussions that we're having there is -- there are a number of parties out there who share our view of the market and the attractiveness of the solution and we are working to reach definitive agreements with all interested parties as we push that project forward.
Moving onto next slide here on Atlantic Sunrise just a little bit of update and just some brief information.
We did issue a news release earlier today on the milestone that Transco executed firm contracts with 9 shippers or 100% of the 1.7 million dekatherms per day of firm transportation capacity.
And so we're very excited to announce that very important project for Transco in that it not only serves as a great investment but it really opens up a lot of supply availability for expanding markets as well.
The project includes 15-year shipper commitments.
Then the shippers are both producers local distribution companies and power generators.
The project represents vital energy infrastructure designed to connect surging new supplies of natural gas in the Marcellus producing region in really coming mostly from the northeastern Pennsylvania area with growing demand centers along the Atlantic Seaboard.
We expect to bring the Atlantic Sunrise into service in the second half of 2017 and of course this assumes all necessary regulatory approvals are received in timely manner.
Moving onto our milestones and the key accomplishments and developments here on Slide 9.
We did have a number of recent milestones in the fourth quarter and even into this year.
We brought the Canadian ethane recovery project online as I mentioned earlier.
The volumes in the fourth quarter for that were disappointing for a number of reasons but primarily impacted by some third-party outages both upstream and some difficulties delivering the project -- the product downstream.
Those have all been worked out now and we're enjoying as I mentioned earlier great volume growth now.
We're reaching important milestones on our Keathley Canyon and Gulfstar projects.
We also are rapidly growing our northeast business.
We saw a 63% increase in our gathering volumes from the fourth quarter of '13 to the fourth quarter of '12 and that compares very favorably if you really look at the whole Marcellus volumes which grew about 40% last year.
So really we're growing -- that says we're growing at a 50% higher rate than the broader Marcellus base is growing.
So we're very excited about that.
We did see our volumes reach an average of about 1.9 Bcf per day for the full year and of course our actual volumes are well above that now.
We touched on the impressive financial growth that we expect to see between '13 and '14.
I would certainly say that's not without risk and we've highlighted the largest of the growth drivers here for 2014 as we continue to push forward on these projects.
Looking at 2015 and beyond we're really starting to see the development of our growth as some of our projects experience a full year of earnings and we bring these new projects online.
So '15 is both the combination of a lot of the full year benefit of projects like Gulfstar and Keathley Canyon which come on in the last half of the year going into '15 as well as some exciting new growth projects through '15 as well.
Beyond the guidance period you'll really begin to see the effect of these major projects.
They provide visibility to our continued WPZ DCF growth and support for Williams' continued strong dividend growth.
Because we do have the luxury of so many projects that leverage off of our competitive advantages we can be selective in pursuing only the best risk-adjusted return projects.
So we're in a very envious position to be allocating capital to really the very best projects.
Moving on to Slide 10 here.
A picture of different services we're providing for the Northeast and here's our large scale strategy.
It really comes together and plays out in this key growth area where we have operations and investments and opportunities across our various lines of our business.
We're strategically positioned in one of the fastest-growing production areas.
The biggest challenges in the Marcellus and the Utica are exactly the kinds of problems that our large scale infrastructure strategy is designed to solve.
This is a great resource basin that needs great market access.
And what stands in our way? Well as we've been pushing through these major projects certainly one of the key issues is the customer's ability to make major commitments up against very complex regulatory structures and the risks in their business.
And certainly the regulatory complexity that it's taking to get this large-scale infrastructure installed as well are barriers to growth.
That's both an impediment but it's also a great opportunity for a company like Williams that's very skilled at taking on these very large complex projects.
Atlantic Sunrise and Bluegrass are really big infrastructure solutions that we've been working on.
And in the case Atlantic Sunrise it took some chronic very visible infrastructure constraints in the market to bring adequate shipper support and firm transportation contracts with long 15-year terms to the project.
Consider that in this example with Atlantic Sunrise it takes more than $400 million in annual revenue each and every year over those 15 years along with very strong credit support behind those to underwrite a project to the side.
That's a very big commitment to make in the face of these regulatory mazes but as we mentioned earlier the market has really recognized that it's going to have to invest and support these kinds of projects.
And so Atlantic Sunrise is one of the first major investments that's coming -- that connects increasing markets with the increasing supplies in the Marcellus area.
Of course it's on the backs of 3 smaller projects that we've been doing out of the area but this is really a very large scale project that we're bringing forth.
We certainly believe that the Bluegrass pipeline project will be the next chapter in how the stories plays out.
But in the NGL segment of the market as the constraint in the supply sources become more evident and people look harder for really the right solution out of the basin and our discussions with our customers certainly indicate that's where we're headed.
We expect to bring the Geismar plant back into service.
Sorry I'm moving to Slide 11 here.
We expect the Geismar plant to be back in service in June this year.
The delay in returning the plant to service and completing the expansion resulted from a variety of factors including the extended loss of utilities.
So that's primarily things like steam our electrical system those were all damaged severely in the incident.
And as a result getting the project back up and running without those systems has proved to be very difficult and very complex.
Based on the current commodity price assumptions we continue to expect that we are mostly covered on the financial effect of the incident with the exception of the 60-day period before the business interruption insurance kicked in during 2013 and the $13 million in cash deductibles that were primarily associated with the property damage.
Moving on to Slide 12 here.
Talking about some exciting milestones here in our deepwater projects and of course that's included in our Atlantic Gulf segment.
On Gulfstar One we've now achieved an important milestone with the mooring process.
So Gulfstar has now reached storm-safe status and the contingencies to cover risks related to weather and powerful eddy currents can be dramatically reduced.
So one of the key issues is getting a spar like this set.
When we set Devils Tower originally we were faced with some pretty bad eddy currents in this area.
And getting that facility moored is a major milestone for our team and things have been going very smoothly in accelerating the schedule on Gulfstar.
So very excited about the team's performance out here on Gulfstar.
And so we do expect our facilities to be in place for an on-time startup of production.
Keep in mind that our production -- that a portion of our cash flows will be dependent on the startup of the production and of course we will be doing everything we can to help to produce and bring production on as soon as possible.
I'll remind you that on Gulfstar that Hess and Chevron's Tubular Bells prospect initially and then as I mentioned earlier later outside the guidance period Gulfstar -- sorry Gun Flint would be tied back.
We do expect production to commence in the third quarter of this year.
On the Keathley Canyon project the customers are Anadarko and Exxon and we expect this work to be done well ahead of the production commencing in the fourth quarter of this year and in fact our deepwater line is now more than 80% laid.
Moving to the summary slide here on 13 which just tells you we are very committed to the strategy with an intense focus for the long term on the natural gas supercycle.
We are convinced more than ever that we're really in the sweet spot.
We've positioned ourselves very well to create value in this environment.
We are now getting some tailwinds from a lift in both NGL prices and gas prices and these are exactly the kinds of signals that the producing community needs to see right now to continue to develop the resources that are out in front of us.
We're rapidly converting our business to a volume fee-based business that is enduring and we're putting in the kind of infrastructure that is difficult to replicate in the long term.
We're very focused on this critical infrastructure and very well-contracted business is going to be here for the long haul due to its competitive advantages in the market.
That's hard work.
It's a lot of risk and it's a lot of grit on the part of our team to push through all of that but that's exactly what we're going to stay focused on.
And it's the stuff that in the long term the market is going to have to have for a sustainable growth in natural gas and natural gas derivatives markets here in the U.S.
I truly believe that there is no other company in this sector that enjoys the degree of visibility to growth that we enjoy both now and over the long period.
So with that I thank you very much for joining us and we'll turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Brad Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> First a quick question about weather.
Obviously the price impact of this winter has been very good for gas and NGL markets.
What impact if any do you expect to see as we move into Q1 in terms of freeze-offs or other operational issues as a result of weather either in the West or in the Northeast? And have we seen some of the buildout in the Northeast or some of the drilling activity slow as a result of some of the cold weather? Yes.
Great Brad.
Thanks for the question.
First of all I'd like to commend our Western team and our Northeast team for some great operations despite some pretty difficult environments out West in the fourth quarter.
Moving into the first quarter where your question was targeted I would say the West continues to do pretty well up against our norms -- we normally do have quite a bit of freeze-off.
But I would tell you they continue to perform very well up against the norms for the Rockies in the Western areas.
San Juan Basin has actually had one of the better periods during this than we normally see quite a bit of reduction in production there.
In the Northeast I'm very thankful for the work our team's done up there.
Key to reliability up on our system.
I will tell you there's certainly been some freeze-up upstream on some of the producer's equipment and some of the volumes upstream of our facilities but our facilities have remained very reliable.
And really excited to see our team having pushed through some very challenging times of getting these facilities up to reliable standards.
And so we have set some freeze-offs out there in the wet Marcellus area.
But again it's not been on our systems it's been upstream and producers have been working quickly to overcome that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And another question about a little bit more of the long-term outlook in the Northeast on your OVM systems specifically.
There have been some really impressive dry gas well results just across the river in Ohio and it appears that there is some potential prospectivity in Marshall and Wetzel for those very productive dry gas horizons.
Are those -- is that kind of emerging play something that you've discussed with your OVM customers? With that dry gas production if it does emerge would that dryer gas maybe alleviate some of the operational issues that you've seen with some of the especially super-rich gas that you've had on the OVM system just by diluting some of the liquids content and providing you with maybe more of a dry gas blend stock for some of the ethane-rich gas you produce? Yes.
Well first of all I would tell you there are several of our key producers that do have plans this year to test into both the Utica dry and the Upper Devonian.
And while the Upper Devonian doesn't provide any relief I hate to -- as a processing company I hate to think about getting -- moving to dry gas as relief.
But to your point some of the big volumes that we've been seeing from Utica test in the dry area would certainly help provide some sweeping volumes and a more reasonable gas-to-liquid phase in our pipeline.
So we're excited about that and we certainly are working with the producers.
I would tell you included in our capital is some expansions of our systems to be able to accommodate some of those higher volumes on the dry gas side.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great and just one last one.
On Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise.
Constitution kind of stood out as the only Northeast pipe project to involve a significant laying of new build pipes and Atlantic Sunrise at least from the map you have provided it appears as though that project would also involve some significant new pipe from kind of the Leidy Line down towards Station 190.
And I guess is there anything from the Constitution process that's maybe something that could be applied to the Atlantic Sunrise process? Or is it something where as long as you're laying significant new build pipes there will be some regulatory risks of delays and what have you? Great question.
I would tell you that on Constitution the real issue we're facing right now from a regulatory issue really relates to the New York DEC not to the FERC.
And so the nice thing about Sunrise is it does not go through the New York area.
So we're not faced with that same regulatory issue.
On the FERC side I would just tell you no they are continuing to push through.
You've saw the Constitution's draft EIS.
So we're very thankful for the FERC continuing to try to do their part to accelerate these projects and we continue to work well with them.
And we certainly have some -- a lot of discussions communications we need to do in New York to find the right answers and right solutions there as well.
We'll go next to Stephen Maresca with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions on Geismar.
So you say expect to be out of service until June.
How firm is that date? And then how much extra out-of-pocket costs are there for each month you missed that? It seems like there you only had if I'm reading this right $10 million of additional uninsured losses from delaying this 2 the 3 months from April to June.
Is that right? Yes.
It's for 2 months.
That's correct.
Just a little over 2 months of delay that's correct.
And so to answer your question right now the mechanical completion is expected in the first part of May and I would tell you there's obviously a lot of things to go right but I'm very proud of the work that our team has done to really dig in some great detail to understand what the drivers of that are in the productivity and labor.
And I think we've got a very studied perspective on that issue.
Having said that I would tell you the window is probably from the last week in May through the end of June as the expected window right now for that startup.
And in terms of that cost of course if we were delayed beyond that it's very dependent on ethane to ethylene spreads.
But in a range that's probably around $1.5 million to maybe up to $2 million a day of expected revenues we lose on that.
Research Division</strong> And then one more.
The $175 million more CapEx and the higher cost for Geismar is it relating to repairs? Or are you getting a return on that increased capital spend? No.
There are -- unfortunately this isn't one that we'll get any return on.
And I would just tell you it's been driven by a lot of the complexities associated with the damage at the plant.
So we've had as I mentioned early we would have to go in and wait on utilities being ready the complexity of working in both the damaged-repaired areas as well as getting the expansion that's just put a very crowded and complex stage there.
So I would tell you that is one of the major drivers for us but there certainly isn't unfortunately any incremental return to come to us from that investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
And then moving to Bluegrass Alan you pushed it out but you're still talking quite favorably on the project.
And is your sense that producers are eventually going to be willing to sign up but this is just a timing issue and I guess what is causing them to hold off on signing right now and still giving you confidence that there will be in the future? Yes.
Steve great question and thanks.
I will just tell you if you look at what cost for a producer the kind of commitment if somebody's got 30 000 to 70 000 barrels a day of commitment and you look at what that looks like on a roughly $0.30 a gallon by the time you pay for transport frac and go to an export facility.
That $0.30 a gallon put that times 30 000 to 50 000 barrels a day and pile it up for 15 years that's a very very large commitment from many of the producers we're dealing with.
And it's just taking time for them to get all their approvals and work through all of the issues and concerns that they have with that because it is a very very large commitment and if you do the math on that.
And so I really think that's the practical issue we're dealing with.
We have some very engaged customers.
I think as I mentioned a lot of our costumers see this opportunity just like we do.
That it is essential and it's an essential piece of infrastructure and I think some folks would just like to see some of the else get it built and hopefully be on the coattails of that.
But frankly we're going to have to see an adequate amount of financial support before we push through with additional investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I appreciate -- moving away from Bluegrass and your comment about discussions with Soroban and Corvex.
I want to know if you could just talk any discussions you have with respect to the Access's 50% GP interest held by GIP.
Is it something that you would ultimately like to own at WMB? And is it something you're working towards ultimately? Well I would just tell you -- we think the ACMP business is a great business.
We think it would be a great complement to Williams in a lot of ways both from a management team standpoint as well as the structure and the contracts and the focus on natural gas.
So it's very much in line with our strategy.
But of course -- so I think fundamentally the answer to your question is yes.
We would like to look towards bringing in the synergies of combining those businesses but there's another party involved.
And that means there is a value trade to be added and we'd have to make sure that the value trade really makes sense for our shareholders.
And because we do have some many great investment opportunities in front of us right now we have to keep that in balance as well.
And so to answer your question yes we'd love to do it but at the right price and at the right timing as well because the bigger hurry we get in the more extensive that likely becomes.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up.
Are there active -- would you describe as active discussions in that for this or not right now? No.
I wouldn't describe there's being any active discussions.
I would say we continue to study the opportunity from our own perspective.
But I wouldn't suggest that there's any active discussions with GIP on that.
Research Division</strong> Final very quick one for me.
Do you expect to have IDR waivers in 2014? I saw you didn't have them in the fourth quarter.
No.
We do not intend to have IDR waivers.
We'll take our next question from Abhi Rajendran with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions.
You increased a lot of your assumptions on your commodity deck but your outlook was largely unchanged.
I guess is this just a function of most of the commodity movements largely netting themselves out? Or are there some volume offsets? If you could provide some color on some of the puts and takes? That would be helpful.
Sure.
Yes really it is very much an offset.
So you'll see of course some higher NGL prices reflect the current market and you'll see the slightly lower ethylene prices.
And of course all of that is up against the higher natural gas price.
And so as I mentioned in my comments really those -- all of those work to offset each other primarily.
So really fairly little movement in all those businesses as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And on the topic of ethylene ethane prices.
I mean could you talk a little bit about your thoughts on margins for Geismar over the long run? Obviously after it's up and running.
Ethane is spiked recently but there's still plenty of supply coming online.
And on the pricing side ethylene is largely driven by crude international crude.
So just some of the puts and takes there and your thoughts on how margins will shape up over time.
Yes.
Abhi I'm going to ask John Dearborn to take that question for us.
Sure and thanks very much for the question.
Starting with -- let's start with a short-term look at ethylene.
As we look back over our shoulder coming out of last year in anticipation of the second quarter turnarounds that are in front of us I think there are 3 factors that are about to turn around in the second quarter.
The industry if you look at the EFPN [ph] inventory data built inventory in our estimate is they built somewhere between 700 million and 800 million pounds through the end of this year.
That's roughly how much ethylene will be needed in the second quarter.
I think on the back of that we saw the weakening prices in the first quarter.
It's our expectation they'll warm up again into the second quarter and that's -- and then back to what we would consider normal for the year in the latter part of the year.
And so I think that's the way we see this year playing out.
If we look at ethane I think in the short term ethane is facing some operational difficulties in the Gulf Coast mainly related to brine that's all the new fractionators have built there in the Gulf Coast.
I think folks just challenged in moving the inventories around us is necessary because of some brine difficulties.
We think that's going to clear out over the short period of time and as a result coupled with -- as a result I think that we're going to see the ethane prices drop back to what would be a more normal level in the $0.30 per gallon range.
I think that's what we've got in our guidance.
So I think that takes care of this year's view.
So now as we look forward the next significant tranches of ethylene come in in the 2017 '18 time frames.
So our expectation is -- on the back of oil staying high and naphtha being relevantly related to oil that our ethylene margins through that period until we see new significant supplies of ethylene come on in the latter part of this decade I think our ethylene margins are expected to remain pretty strong.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then one last quick one if I may.
Could you maybe talk a little bit about recontracting on the Northwest and Transco pipelines in terms of what's up for renewal how we should think about changes in the transportation rates? Obviously Transco is running pretty close to full; Northwest is not quite there.
But any color there would be very helpful.
Okay great.
I'll ask -- we're in very good shape on that as well as Gulfstream.
I'll ask Rory Miller to take Transco and then Allison Bridges can give you a response on Northwest.
So Rory if you'll take that Transco question? Yes that's a good question.
Just thinking about Transco a little bit we've got what I would call some pretty fresh market signals around pricing with our new Atlantic Sunrise project.
And although we're not really disclosing all the information on it right now the rates are above significantly above where our system rate is.
I think we've got an average of 6 years or so on contract length there.
But we believe that with the change of the system supply coming in both ends and the kind of growth that we have from the market side it's truly a "supply push market pull" kind of scenario.
We believe as those contracts roll off that re-upping those contracts is going to be very attractive for our end users.
We don't think anybody in the marketplace will be able to touch the opportunity that the LDCs have to just re-up those contracts.
And in fact that's what we've seen as contracts roll off.
We've not seen any pressure at all in terms of getting those recontracted.
So it's kind of -- it's a very healthy situation and I think due in large part just to the quality of the service and the positioning of the assets.
Great.
Thank you and Allison if you'll take the North -- question on Northwest.
Yes.
On Northwest we are fully subscribed even though we don't run at 100% load factor day in and day out.
We do -- our contracts are fully subscribed and I believe on average we have a remaining term of over 9 years.
And we continue to be able to extend terms with customers.
Additionally we're really starting to see I think some exciting new market growth opportunities come to the Northwest through potential new fertilizer plants potential new methanol plants for exports.
So I think that not only will that continue to bode well for our existing capacity I think longer-term it will also result in some expansion opportunity.
We'll go next to Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In the Northeast your processing volume was a bit stronger than I would have expected.
How much if any of that was due to benefiting from a third-party outage? There was some in the month of -- mostly in the month of December there Christine that came from the Natrium plant being down and I think it was around varied but up to about 50 million a day during the month of December.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I look at your NGL production it looks like you guys may have hit your fractionation capacity maybe at the end of 4Q or sometime this quarter.
Is that the case and is your new frac unit online today? Yes.
We are up against the limits on the base frac and the second frac we are -- we'll be commissioning here towards the end of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was there a buildup in NGL volumes that couldn't get frac-ed or no? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Going to Bluegrass.
Was there maybe more acreage dedications than you would have liked and not enough minimum volume and/or ship or pay commitments? Is that delay in the pipeline more about reducing your volume risks and that's only going to happen when producers feel more pain in netbacks.
Also have the smaller projects that have been announced since your original announcement of the project played the part in pushing back your timing? Well first of all on the acreage dedication versus not enough volume we certainly appreciate both of those as contributions.
But clearly we want to have a baseload of revenues that we can count on initially and so that certainly is a major part of the issue.
Secondly as to the smaller projects -- I think those are great projects.
I think they're needed.
But they don't provide the kind of long-term underground storage opportunities that you get with the Gulf Coast nor the diversity of the markets for both the growing Petchem businesses and as well as the export opportunities that are very large-scale in nature in well-protected ports.
So I would just tell you that I think we're excited those other projects exist because we think the growth in volume is certainly is dictating those kinds of solutions.
But we really haven't seen that as a big deterrent for producers committing to Bluegrass.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
Can you provide an update on the PDH facilities? Last we heard you narrowed it down to 2 international players or 2 players I guess who are interested in building derivative plants alongside your facilities.
But we'd like to know if there's been any progress there.
Yes.
I'm going to ask John Dearborn to take that as well.
Yes.
Christine thanks for the question.
Yes we've made some good progress there.
We actually narrowed it down to one person and we're entering into definitive agreements on that.
Give us a couple of months and probably by Analyst Day we'll be able to bring you a good update on where that the project is at that stage but progressing as expected at the moment.
We'll go next to Jeremy Tonet with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping just to possibly drill down a little bit more on the Northeast G&amp;P.
Would it be possible to quantify how much weather impacted the quarter the ROIs? I would tell you it wasn't very large actually.
I'd say some of the more significant issues were line breaks and a number of onetime operational expenses and some write-downs and so forth.
But not too big of a volume impact from weather.
One impact though that we did suffer was the ethane limitations going into the TETCO system.
And so without the ethane systems being up and running yet there were constraints that TETCO imposed on points like the Fort Beeler connection that required curtailments there.
And so that did have some impact on our volumes in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then as we look forward into 2014 I was just wondering if you could provide any color on how you see the segment ramping up over the year? Do you expect the first quarter to be similar to fourth quarter or a steady ramp across the year or any step change in any given quarter? Well some of the big projects that we have coming on of course is the Gulfstar project which would come on in the third quarter and the Keathley Canyon project which comes on at the beginning of the fourth quarter and then the Rockaway lateral project.
Additionally though the projects in the Northeast many of which will come on either at the very end of the first quarter or the second quarter really are some big drivers not necessarily just the volume but to the rate that we achieve for those services.
And so even though people come accustomed to looking at volume there a lot of that will be just an increase in rates.
So those are really some of the big projects I would say.
On the Cayman system -- sorry on the system in Susquehanna Supply Hub area with Cabot those volumes will continue to grow throughout the year.
And we're really excited about the continued growth up there and we're working very hard to keep the infrastructure out in front of the growth up there.
But that's pretty well steady.
That growth will be well steady throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So specific to the Northeast G&amp;P sounds like going into the second quarter there could be a bit of a step change there? Correct.
We'll take our next question from Harry Mateer with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two for me.
The first can you just talk about whether your thoughts on the need to have investment grade ratings of WMB have evolved and whether that financial policy might be part of your discussions when you consider taking advantage of the structural and transformation opportunities that you mentioned at the start of the call? This is Don Chappel.
Certainly our -- I'll call it policy and desires have been to maintain the investment grade ratings at Williams.
We think that it provides a lot of flexibility and ability to be opportunistic particularly during very challenging times when the high-yield market is locked up.
But having said that we're certainly open-minded to other paths that create more value but it would have to be something compelling that would cause us to deviate from the path that we're on.
So again we continue to be open-minded but we think it would take a compelling value-creation situation in order for us to deviate from our current path.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on Transco and Northwest earlier.
Appreciate the commentary on rolling contracts.
But you said there's been no issue with getting contracts renewed and extended.
But I'm just wondering has pricing been stable as well? Or do you feel like you're giving up some pricing to get tenor? Rory you want to take that please? Sure.
Harry we really haven't seen price pressure on those re-up contracts.
If you look at where our system rates are they're probably the lowest-cost opportunity that people have in the marketplace.
And so the other thing is so many of our -- the LDCs that we serve it's not like we're just dropping off large volumes of gas at one point.
In some of our bigger customers we've got over 40 delivery points.
And so when you think about the way that we're distributing that gas into a 60- or 70-year-old distribution system and the low rates that we have that they can re-up at it's just really hard.
Plus it's virtually impossible to replace those with gas from a new competitor.
And to be clear on that we haven't discounted any of that firm.
It's 100% contracted and the rates are getting set by those rate cases.
But to those long-haul 100% firms there's not any discount.
There may be a discount in the production area for IT and so forth but not on the long-haul firm.
We'll go next to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question for me it's WMB-leveled.
You've obviously reduced the CapEx here with Bluegrass getting pushed out.
I'm wondering if you can just talk about capital allocation thoughts on the dividends I don't know share buybacks keeping dry powder for acquisitions.
What would you do with the extra cash now that you'll have here for a little while? Don take that.
Ted this is Don.
I would say that the extra cash flow now is still going on into some of our growth projects like CNRL.
And we'll see what Bluegrass does but for the near term that extra cash is being reinvested in that Canadian business.
Longer-term I think we have a lot of options and we'll have to see how things play out here in terms of investment as well as all the other options that we continue to evaluate.
I think as Alan mentioned early on that we continue to evaluate kind of all the options and we're very open to possibilities that will create additional value.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then we've sort talked around it a little bit but can you just give us a sense on Atlantic Sunrise? The returns that we're ought to be modeling in there it sounds like it's higher than your current system rates.
I think there was a mention of $400 million of revenue.
Just give us a sense of what kind of returns from the $2.1 billion of capital we should expect.
That looks like about -- without providing specific returns there it does look like about a 7x multiple on that project.
Of course that's a little better than you normally would see on a pipeline project and some of that is driven by the fact that we did have the competitive advantage of having a lot of that service being provided by the existing system.
And so that allows for some higher returns than normal.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last one for me is -- you sound now a little more bullish on the Gulf.
Any thoughts on potentially affecting Gulfstar here? As you're getting close to completion of the first one what's the opportunity set look like right now? Yes.
Well first of all I'd tell you one thing we are very excited about is the tie-backs that we're seeing to both Gulfstar One and to the original Devils Tower spar.
And I'll remind you those 2 facilities are very close together until there's a pretty nice area there that we can serve from those 2 spars and we are seeing some nice tie-backs.
And certainly the Gunflint tie-back is a big boost to our expected economics for Gulfstar and came on much earlier in our assumptions.
In our projects like that we assume some tie-backs for the future but this one came on much earlier than we had expected originally for that project.
So that's very positive and of course we've got a couple of tie-backs to Devils Tower as well.
On the new spar front we have many projects that were out there working as you look out into the further reaches.
I would tell you we're pretty excited about some of the opportunities that we see to serve PEMEX with some of their big deepwater finds which I'll remind you are just south of our Perdido -- of the Perdido fold belt and our pipelines that go out to serve Shell's projects at Perdido Norte.
So anyway we're very seeing a lot of interest in the product but we don't have any capital and guidance right now.
We don't have enough confidence in those projects at this point have any capital embedded in our guidance right now.
We'll take our next question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Just maybe if you clean up questions if I could.
Alan maybe going back to Bluegrass.
If we get abandonment -- FERC abandonment in March do you see that playing any type of catalysts? Would -- did anyone have any concerns over that as they may have with other alternative projects? And two could you help us with any color maybe you saw from the international petchem community as far as going through Moss Lake and perhaps getting capacity on Bluegrass from that end? Yes.
Well those are both really astute questions.
First of all on the abandonment issue on Texas Gas certainly Boardwalk's in control of that issue and I would defer that question to them.
It's certainly at some point with the timing of that abandonment would certainly play into the decisions on Bluegrass.
And the catalyst for a decision we'll just say we're not certain of the timing of that.
And I think we certainly work closely with Boardwalk but they've been working to manage that issue.
But at some point that would likely become an issue as abandonment word would come out and a decision would have to be made in terms of which direction to take there.
On the question around the international players lots of interests.
A lot of a big interest I would tell you from a lot of international players.
And I think there are some great strategic matchup there in terms of what we're trying to accomplish in the markets that we're trying to present for our producers in the Northeast.
But I also would tell you the challenge to that is it is a very slow process in terms of working through all the approvals not within -- not regulatory or anything like that within the governance within those very large multinational corporations.
And so we're excited about it in strategy but it's a long arduous process to gain approval on that.
And so we're not waiting around I would just put it that way.
We're not waiting around for those approvals for moving on but we do have a lot of exciting talks there.
And we'll remain very excited about that strategically.
But we've got to execute in the near term sometimes and those parties can move too.
Okay.
No I appreciate the color.
Two last questions if I could.
And understanding what the Canadian PDH we haven't seen the first one yet.
So I don't want unless I put the cart in front of the horse but to the extent that my understanding was at the end of last year we were looking at perhaps wooing 2 different companies and that led into potential even assessing the twin of the project.
Is that something that is still progressing? Or is it more at this point let's get the first one locked up under construction and then we'll perhaps assess a twinning at that point? A great question Carl.
I'm going to ask John Dearborn to take the question.
Appreciate the question as well.
Yes the second PDH is certainly still a bright spot in our future that we want to keep our eye on.
But I think you've got it exactly right that we need to have success with the first one before we're ready really to take a big step into the second.
The marketplace though is continuing to express great interest.
In fact the partner that we're talking with is interested in the second one as well.
So just that person is interested and then we've got an arms-length-long list of folks that have come and approached us about number 2.
So I guess I'll just say stay tuned.
There's more future growth opportunity for us up in the Canadian franchise.
And then a final question if I could.
Maybe one for Don and understanding that is sort of one of the risks that were outlined the insurance recoveries for Geismar and the risk of perhaps oversimplification.
Is there any additional color to share that say for instance of the $125 million second payment that should be coming this quarter? Can you express that in any terms of bid versus ask of what you had requested from the insurance companies versus what they were comfortable at this point paying out? Carl the insurance paid 100% of our claim to date.
So I think to date they've paid the claim as filed and I think we're pretty well paid up through the end of the year now.
In fact obviously the business interruption loss mounts every month.
So we'll continue to update the claims process and make requests for additional payments.
We'll see where that takes us.
But the actual claim is based on actual losses so we can't expect to get paid for February until sometime after February ends or -- March until after March ends and we know what the real price is.
We're in the market and therefore the basis of our claim.
So those will kind of tick off periodically.
We'll go next to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions here.
Alan and Don on this call you both commented a couple of times about being open-minded to transformational opportunities.
But Don kind of emphasized the bar was set high for giving up that investment grade credit rating and also noted that WMB level free cash flow is already spoken for a bit in the near term.
My first question is do you kind of see this ongoing internal discussions with investors being an ongoing long-term issue to keep in mind or something that's more of a 2014 catalyst? Well I would just say -- it's a great question Craig thank you.
But I -- we've always had our eyes open to any arbitrage that's available in the market and any additional value we can add to our shareholders to either transformational or structural changes.
And as I mentioned earlier I don't think anybody can accuse us of not having been aggressive and in fact we've certainly been a leader in many of the structural changes over the last several years.
And so we'll continue to look for those and I think the drivers will be what the market is valuing and how our businesses are being best valued in the market and we'll continue to look for those opportunities as time goes by.
So I don't -- unless there became a roadblock between a really good idea and what we are willing to do that would be catalyst that might limit '14.
I just don't see that.
I think we're very well aligned with both Corvex and Soroban in terms of looking for the great value.
I think their perspective is that we're well undervalued relative to marking to our peers.
And that we've got the best growth story in the business and we ought to be getting value better than our peers and not just at par with our peers.
And so I think they see a huge value gap there.
And I have to say I share their perspective.
And I'm very well aligned and will continue to work with them or anybody else that has good ideas on how we can achieve that value.
Inc.</strong> Great.
I appreciate that and a couple more.
With Gulfstar One pending completion do you see this completion -- successful on-time completion being a catalyst for other significant deepwater projects? I would just tell you I think our producers -- I think Hess and Chevron and particularly Hess discussed with some more visibility to them are going to wind up looking really smart on this project both in terms of the time that they brought their production to market.
And the capital that they have tied up or the lack of capital they have tied up.
So I think it's going to look like a really good project for them.
It's going to look like a really good project for us because we're bringing in third-party volumes and we're marketing the project for that.
So I think when people sit back and analyze that they're going to look pretty smart.
I think Hess will want to do more business.
Chevron want to do more business like that and I think their peers will be pressured to do that kind of businesses as well.
So I think this is a smart solution out there and certainly it gives -- we'll continue to gain confidence in our ability to execute on these kind of projects as well as the producing community.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And last 2 small ones.
Can you provide some more color on that $20 million Petchem Services pipeline project write-off? And as a follow-up to Abhi's question about long-term commodity price outlook and I know this is going out a bit.
But if we are thinking maybe nat gas and even ethane pricing especially could be a headwind towards the end of the decade would you consider leading up to that balancing out your short positions by expanding midstream processing POP exposures through development or acquisition or new processing? First question on the write-off in the Petchem Services that was related to an NGL extension up in the Northeast a line extension that through some potential partnering arrangements we don't think we need any longer.
And so we found a better solution than the investment that we've made in the right away and so forth developing the project.
So that's the first one.
And then secondly on the commodity price outlook certainly the natural gas pricing is one that is kind of bittersweet for us in the short term.
It will put pressure on our NGL margins and therefore ultimately on the ethylene spread as well as ethylene prices as you mentioned.
But the good news is and I think this is very positive news is that just as we stated we're really trying to move it forward to being a volume-driven company and with this shot in the arm for the producers the gas and the NGL prices that we think are going to spur additional drilling and additional volumes into our system.
And so frankly I think it's very -- long-term very healthy for our business.
In terms of contract restructuring I think you'll see that we continue to restructure into -- away from the business.
And if you look at how rapidly our fee-based business is growing over the period it's tending to push out the importance of those NGL margins.
And so we're always looking to try to reduce the risk in exposure but it has to be done with an eye towards really the expected net present value versus the commodity risk.
And so -- but we're always looking to do that.
We see great value in more and more predictable cash flows and so we're always working towards that.
Inc.</strong> I guess my question there was a little more focused on an appetite even if the individual investment is not as high-return in balancing out your commodity exposures longer-term.
So you have a little less volatility.
So in other words would you be willing to go into fresh midstream commodity exposed operations that would balance out your existing risks.
Well I would say that I don't see adding POP contracts as reducing risks all that much frankly.
And so I would say you'd see us investing in more fee-based investments.
I think POP is a different kind of risk but I really don't see it balancing out all that much risk.
We do have some contracts that will reduce risks like our Laurel Mountain contract with Chevron that's a percent of gas.
And that does but that's not just limited to the processing business that's on the gathering business as well.
So we certainly will look to those kind of opportunities that reduce our exposure to natural gas but not necessarily adding length and exposure to NGLs.
We'll go next to Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
For the Atlantic Sunrise project do you anticipate that 7x multiple at the start? Or is there a stairstep in the commitments to get to the full capacity? No that is both initial and end of term revenues.
So that's fully contracted from day 1.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then also for the planned Canadian drop-down.
Any change in the target multiple? I think you previously mentioned around 7x.
Sharon we said less than 7x and I think we're in that same zip code.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I guess given the recent news on Boardwalk do you anticipate that this could have an impact or bearing on shippers' decision to commit to Bluegrass? Or maybe on the way you would like to structure the JV as the project goes forward? No.
Just to remind you -- and I'm certainly going to be careful.
I do not to speak for Boardwalk here but I will tell you that Boardwalk has been very clear with us from the inception and have certainly recently reiterated that Loews really stands behind the bulk of their capital commitment.
And so we did not worry the recent reduction in their distribution and the impact that's had on the company.
So we -- we're very excited to have them as a partner.
They've been a great partner to work with and we really don't see any issues there because of they've got such strong backing from Loews on the project.
We'll take our next question from Timm Schneider with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I was wondering if you guys can maybe discuss what you're seeing in terms of operating cost creep in some of your different service areas.
So if I look at Northeast for example volumes and revenues were up pretty nicely I think 18% sequentially but that didn't really push through to the bottom line.
Was this just kind of onetime issues? Or is there something else going on? It really -- Timm thanks for the question.
It really is -- has been a lot of onetime issues.
We also have allocated quite a bit of cost the way we allocate kind of our support services across the company.
Those get allocated on both the capital and a revenue basis and so the cost of them coming up directly with those allocations as well.
But for the most part the real issue was a bunch of onetime matters in terms of write-downs and so forth that on various assets.
And frankly we're kind of cleaning up what's been a pretty fast-paced period up there.
And I would tell you as we move forward Jim Scheel and his team are going to be very focused on operational excellence and really fine-tuning our cost structure up there.
So I'm very confident in our team's ability to do that.
If you look at our overall cost structure across the entire company you'll actually see that that actually -- between our O&amp;M and G&amp;A actually reduced a little bit from 12% to 13% which is pretty impressive considering the amount of growth that we've been managing.
So I'm very confident in our team's ability to get after cost and get those in line.
But we've certainly been trying to make sure we got some of the reliability problems behind us and for the benefit of our customers and because we saw that as kind of a job one.
And I think we've done that and reliability has been very very impressive over the last 6 to 7 months.
But it's come at some expense to get it there and I think that's a lot of what you're seeing right now.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And as a follow-up can you guys just discuss maybe your preliminary funding plans for Atlantic Access? Are you kind of happy with the $2.1 billion I guess CapEx outlay at this point or would you consider selling some of that balance to another party? No.
I don't think we would be planning on selling that down.
It's part of the Transco system and as a result of that it's not an individual project the way like a Constitution project is.
So Constitution is not part of the Transco system and it allows for that but being part of Transco makes that a little more difficult.
Yes.
We like the risk return profile there and again most of that capital is in 2017.
The amount of capital for 2017 is pretty modest.
So it puts it out in a period where we'll have a lot of capacity and be looking to make big investments.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Lastly for me on Constitution.
I guess what are some of the big moving parts around the in-service date whether it's going to be kind of end of '15 or early '16? And how are some of the conversations going with producers in that part of the woods? Well that -- the Constitution system is fully contracted as you know.
And so the discussions are really more around what all we can do jointly to accelerate the permitting process.
And really the permitting is the issue.
As I mentioned earlier the FERC has certainly been constructive and they are pushing things along.
But there are some permitting requirements in the state of New York that for various reasons can be a bit of a barrier.
And frankly I think we just got to work towards the right resolutions that meets everybody's needs on that.
And I feel we'll remain confident that we can do that I think it's very clear politically that the infrastructure is desperately needed to serve the New England markets.
And I think that bringing that to life clearly and firmly will help bring some reason to getting past some of the permit issues that we're facing right now.
Research Division</strong> So was that more at the state level? Or was it actually land owners challenging rights of ways? No.
It's state permitting issues.
We'll go next to Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I hate to beat a dead horse but if could just go back to sort of the response that you guys have to the activism in the market and your stock.
Is there going to be like a formal response from you guys from all you guys to the activist shareholders' sort of demands? Or is there going to be any change in the board over the next several months? I know that there were some requests by the activists to take board seats too.
So just wondering is there a timeline when you have to respond to them or put out a formal sort of response and discuss sort of what are the strategic options or at least adopt the strategic options that they're recommending? Yes.
Well really the only thing they really asked for at this point is the board seats.
And so that's where the discussions have centered frankly.
And as you noted we -- I'm sure we put out an 8-K announcing that we had expanded or extended the window for nomination post this call in our 10-K release.
And that really was to eliminate any disclosure kind of risk and really allow the parties to have a more thorough discussion post that information being out there.
So I think you should see that as very accommodating on the company's part and very interested in continuing those discussions.
Research Division</strong> Is there sort of a time line when sort of these discussions and you guys all present your sort of findings to the market? Or is it sort of just ongoing? I would say it's ongoing and certainly wouldn't try to speak for Corvex and Soroban.
But I think from Williams' standpoint we certainly are interested to reengage in the discussions.
And again just given the timing that we were up against the window closing ahead of a 10-K and our earnings release we just wanted to make sure that we didn't -- that the compliance issues were first and foremost in the attendance of the various issues we need to deal with there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then going back to the funding on Atlantic Sunrise.
So do you guys envision sort of issuing sort of pick [ph] units in the future for -- to fund the equity on this project? Or do you think that you are -- the cost of equity will be low enough that WPZ to sort of to move forward with the common equity offering? Faisal one is that the significant funding is on a long way out.
As I mentioned the bulk of it is in 2017.
So -- and we would expect the WPZ cost of capital to improve significantly particularly as we -- as Alan cited here we've got a lot of projects that we -- are expected to go in service here in '14 and '15 which will really boost WPZ cash flow and coverage.
And as we do that and the coverage comes back to a -- I'll call it a more attractive level we would expect WPZ will trade in line with fundamentals.
So I'd say we're optimistic that WPZ will come back in line here over the next year or so.
We'll take our next question from Chris Sighinolfi from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I guess first Don if you could talk about maintenance CapEx.
I realize in the prepared remarks you talked about some synergies that were realized in 4Q that led to the improved spend versus what you were guided in the third quarter.
But I'm just wondering a bit more about that given that we didn't see any change in '14 or '15 guidance is that more of just a onetime synergy? And if so what's sort of additional color around it? Let me take that if I could please.
This is Alan.
I think first of all the -- a couple of drivers to that.
We have a lot of maintenance capital items that had been driving a lot of the costs in '11 and '12.
So they were Clean Air Act issues.
There was a lot of required inspections on the pipeline to be done by a certain period smart pig inspections.
And so we got a lot of that out of the way.
If we also -- if you think about reducing risk on your systems and your asset integrity issues you always want to hit the systems that have the most risk on them first.
And I would just tell you that our costs have been based just assuming that we would continue to find the same number of anomalies on our systems as we completed those smart pigging and some of the hydro testing.
And in fact as we've gotten further down the profile and the lower-risk assets we've had less and less dig outs.
We've had less and less repairs required and so that has driven some of that out.
In terms of -- so if you were the team that's responsible for that asset integrity work when you do your forecasting for that you go in assuming you're going to have a certain amount of digs and certain amount of anomalies to clear.
And if you don't find them then those costs don't show up.
Certainly the big cost is in the repairs of that.
So that's one item.
And certainly -- and because we had such rough winner out West in particular towards into the November and December time frame it did slow down some of the works that we would have done in that period and would have expected to get done in the fourth quarter.
And so a little bit of that'll get pushed in to '14.
But it's not like you miraculously have a bunch of new capacity to get the work completed so that tends to get pushed out into '15 as well.
And so I would just tell you that we haven't backed off it all in terms of maintaining the integrity of our systems and spending the right money.
We've just been very fortunate that a lot of the early work that we did was on some of our pipelines that we did most reconditioning and as we moved into the less -- or the newer parts of our system and areas that we've had less issues our costs are coming down as we do that pipeline inspection and asset integrity work.
Research Division</strong> Great Alan.
That's very helpful.
As you think about the '14 and '15 programs and just as a quick follow-up in what you have planned for asset integrity.
Might there be upside opportunities like what you mentioned when you find less there than what you think given where you're moving to? Or is it kind of entirely a different aspect of the system? No.
I think we're having a hard time really believing we're going to get that fortunate on a repeated basis.
And so I would just tell you our assumptions haven't baked that in at this point but certainly that possibility exists but we just haven't baked that in at this point.
Secondly I would tell you an area that may be an impact on that would be around well-connect capital.
Again this isn't built-in.
Because we're seeing gas prices and NGL prices move up so nicely we may see more drilling coming on which might increase our well connect capital towards the last half year.
We love spending that money due to the degree that's producing revenues for the future.
But nevertheless given the way we account for maintenance capital we would include that well connect capital as maintenance capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I think that actually drills down to rather nicely out to questions I have on the West segment Alan.
We saw the ethane equity volumes come down again in a big way in 4Q.
Obviously recognized rejection's been something we grapple with all year.
But I was curious 2 questions out there.
One if there's something in particular that drove the change in 4Q that can be sort of isolated and highlighted? And then two as I think about '14 and '15 with the commodity construct we're seeing today if you've had any sort of revised views around the volume could be out there.
I did see WPX had numbers out last week calling some increased numbers out of their Piceance program for example.
Sort of how that might translate into what you guys are expecting out late? Great question.
Let me ask Allison Bridges take that question.
Yes.
We did have some -- a little bit of anomalies I think in the fourth quarter in that we were -- third parties were actually continuing to recover.
And so we were actually giving them some of our equity ethane which was a positive thing from our financial standpoint.
And additionally we did have a contract that terminated at the end of the third quarter.
So those 2 things caused a rather large drop in the fourth quarter.
We have been seeing some declines in volumes.
As you said we are starting to see some good signs with increase in gas prices as well as WPX announcing that they were adding rigs.
So we do believe that a little bit out in the guidance period we're going to start to see arresting of some of those declines.
Research Division</strong> Great very helpful.
One final follow-up for me.
Just to dovetail on what Timm had asked earlier about costs.
Alan we did see a very strong bead relative to your guidance in Atlantic-Gulf.
Obviously some cost creep continued into the Northeast.
You had mentioned as you have in earlier quarters about sort of this week calibration or reallocation of costs more towards the Northeast given the activity.
Was any of that present in the fourth quarter? Or is that sort of -- have we reached run rates we should expect from here? No.
And just so you know I mean I think if you're just focused on the Northeast segment you'll see movement.
If you're looking at the total cost structure you won't see that much movement as it relates to that allocation because it's basically just pulling cost out of area where there's less activity and less growth and it's being applied again.
That's done on a modified mass basis which basically takes in as a primary allocation is the capital invested and the revenues.
And so as both the capital invested and the revenues grow there it will shift more costs to there.
That doesn't necessarily mean that the cost of that business directly is going up but it just is the way and the method that we allocate cost across the business.
And of course we need to do that because we have regulated assets in our businesses as well and so we need to make sure that we keep proper tallies on how we allocate those costs and we keep constant method going on how we do that.
So to answer your question as you'll probably continue to see some allocated costs even though I would tell you in terms of the lack of operating profit performance in the Northeast for the fourth quarter very little of that was driven because we are already expecting that cost allocation.
A lot of the drivers really a bunch of onetime issues that we had in the fourth quarter as I mentioned earlier.
And we'll go next to Becca Followill with the U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> On Atlantic Sunrise are these 1.7 Bcf a day capacity incremental to the call it throughput on the system that's really running from south to north? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So it doesn't reverse flow on any of the system to cannibalize the existing system? Or is it all incremental? Well I think if you just looked at our initial flows back then and you looked at our initial flows after the project is done those 2 numbers are additive.
Research Division</strong> So it won't displace any of the existing roughly 60% of contracts that you have rolling off by 2016? No.
The -- where the product -- projects are going and deliveries for it will be incremental.
And so I think you could -- really if you think about it it's the amount of gas going off the system that you would see.
And so while you may see the benefit of physical displacement allow us to increase our capacity so in other words we don't have to go build as much capital as you normally would think to get incremental volumes because you've got gas coming from both directions.
The volumes leaving the system will increase by that amount.
Research Division</strong> And then on Bluegrass when should we expect a go or no-go decision? As we mentioned earlier we're still in those discussions and I don't really think we should pin that down.
But -- because frankly it's some really big commitments and we think it's the right project and it's taking some time to get people to make those huge and long-term commitments.
But I'm really not willing to put a specific time line on that at this point Becca.
And with no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the call back over to Alan Armstrong for any additional or closing remarks.
Great.
Thank you Dana.
Well thanks everybody for joining us.
We remain very excited about the tremendous growth that we've got ahead of us.
And a lot of the big capital investments as I mentioned really on the backs of a lot equity are really start to come in to '14.
We're pleased with the performance we saw for the fourth quarter and particularly pleased with some of the operational reliability improvements that we're seeing across the systems.
And so we look forward to talking to you in the future and continuing to talk about the great growth story we have here at Williams.
Thanks.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
Welcome to today's Williams and Williams Partners First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Melanie.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our websites williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases with related schedules and the accompanying analyst packages the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
In addition to Alan this morning we also have the 4 leaders of our operating areas with us: Jim Scheel leads our Northeastern G&amp;P operating area; Allison Bridges leads our Western operating area Rory Miller leads the Atlantic Gulf area; and John Dearborn leads our NGL &amp; Petchem Services operating area; Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterday's presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we've reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Thanks John and good morning to everybody.
Thank you for joining us.
Certainly excited to be reporting another great quarter and really on all key measures but before we dig in to the quarterly results I want to remind you that we remain very committed to our natural gas focus strategy and we continue to have -- and the strategy really continues to have us right in the middle of some great opportunities and really we couldn't be more excited about the way we're seeing the tailwinds build for the opportunities that we've positioned ourselves for.
This has certainly been a wave that we've been seeing building for quite some time and we think we've got ourselves in the perfect position to catch this wave.
And certainly as we see a lot of our major projects start to come on here in the last half of this year and really for many years to come we just got a tremendous wave of great projects that we've been working so hard on to get out in front of.
So we certainly see it -- the wave building here in the first quarter and through our guidance period and then well beyond and we look forward to talking about that well beyond certainly at our upcoming Analyst Day.
So we are also well positioned to return this value to our shareholders for many years to come with our industry-leading dividend at WMB and as well our solid and very visible distribution growth at WPZ.
So today we'll talk about the key measures for our first quarter results.
We'll talk about the continued project execution and development that we've got ongoing discuss the drivers for our '14 and '15 -- 2014 and 2015 guidance range.
And I'll provide a little bit of color on Bluegrass the current situation which has improved for us dramatically at Opal and then I'll briefly touch on our future growth.
So as I did say though a lot of that future growth and a lot of opportunity to really dig into at our upcoming Analyst Day.
So getting in here to the first quarter and looking at our very strong first quarter operating results.
I think the real big keys for this quarter from my perspective is one first of all we're continuing to see our fee-based revenues drive.
And so we saw a 9% increase over the prior year's quarter and we continue see strength on that.
We certainly had a tough winter but I will tell you that our teams did a great job of driving reliable services and certainly we had some production outages upstream of our systems but for the most part our teams were able to keep our systems up and running through -- and available through some very difficult winter time.
So I want to commend our teams who really had some great focus on that this year and did an extraordinary job on that.
Also our 17% growth in DCF which is really driven by the $63 million increase in the fee-based revenue growth and as well the $8 million lower maintenance CapEx.
And of course that lower maintenance CapEx was really driven as well by a pretty harsh winter that made it hard for us to get out and get some of the work that we would have expected to get done in the first quarter done.
You will see -- obviously you'll see that those costs continue to build -- on the maintenance capital side will build here in the second quarter as things thaw out and we're able to get in to get a lot of that work done.
So bottom line great quarter great start to the year with many large catalysts for growth ahead of us in the last half of '14 and certainly beyond '14.
Moving on to the growth that we expect through our guidance period.
This is something we're really excited about greater than 50% growth in our DCF from 2013 to 2015.
And of course that really is on the backs of all of these big projects that we've been working so hard on and investing so much capital into.
And you'll see a lot of that growth is going to be driven by about a $900 million increase in our fee-based revenues comparing '13 to '15.
And as well though I think something that's really impressive on this front.
As we look at our cost structure really a pretty small increase in our cash operating expenses relative to the size of this growth because a lot of this growth is already built out in terms of our assets being well positioned in the Northeast and as well they're along a lot of our existing right of ways and just additive to our existing lines of business.
So our increased cash cost is really not that high.
So we see a nice increase in our margin over the period as well.
For 2014 some of the drivers they certainly remain the same.
Certainly we're very focused on the June restart at Geismar and also the successful recovery of our BI insurance proceeds and those 2 things obviously go together and so we continue to be very focused on that -- getting that done.
And I would say on that front John Dearborn is here to address more of that but we're certainly still within the window that we've been describing and we'll be looking forward to starting probably in the last half of June.
And I'll remind you a startup isn't a simple push of the button and we are starting to return systems various auxiliary systems to -- into service as we speak.
But again a lot of work left to be able to get hydrocarbons into the facility and cracked.
We're seeing a planned ramp-up in the drilling in the Northeast G&amp;P area.
We've got great tailwinds building behind this area and certainly the strong gas prices are a boost to that.
And so we're pretty excited about how we're positioned there but we do have a lot of growth in the plan and Jim Scheel is here to address that.
Finally our commodity prices.
We certainly have got a clear explanation of what we're at risk to there on our commodity prices.
And I would tell you the thing I've probably got my eye on the most relative to our plan today is higher gas prices which of course would impact our processing margins in the short term.
I think in the long term that's a very strong positive force because it's going to continue to drive volumes not just in the Northeast but it'll drive volumes in the West as well.
So I think that while we may see some short-term impact against our processing margin if we get above that average that we've got stated I think we're pretty excited to see that because it's really going to drive the kind of growth in our basins and drive our volumes higher.
Finally ethylene prices are certainly an obvious driver but nice to see the very significant improvement we've seen here in the last couple of weeks.
And I'll tell you that John Dearborn and his team have done a pretty good job of calling that.
And so we're excited to bring Geismar back up right into running when there's a great need for those ethylene -- particularly around the Mississippi River front.
In 2015 we get a big boost from all of the big 2014 projects being on for a full year.
So you'll note many of our big projects are coming on in the last half of year.
So in '15 we get a full year of that.
And then another round of fully contracted projects that come online in 2015 as Transco continues to connect these tremendous demands for the Marcellus supply into these markets that are rapidly expanding as well.
So the great capital investment opportunities continue to be a big opportunity and certainly are going to drive a great cash flow growth.
But I think looking to the next slide an even more important change to WPZ really is the fact that because we've been investing using -- been funding so much of this growth on the equity side now we're going to be able to rebalance to the debt side as these big projects come online.
And so as you can see here on this slide titled growth plans required minimum of WPZ equity and no WMB equity that is really powerful for the whole story because again very limited needs for capital in the foreseeable future on WPZ because of all the equity we've issued positioning ourselves over the last couple of years.
And so for '14 all we're seeing is a little bit of entrance into the ATM space on the equity side and then no equity planned for 2015 at WPZ.
So a great reward coming back to our equity side of our balance sheet.
Moving onto the next slide here.
Relatively modest growth in the WPZ CapEx.
This is driven by the recently announced 1.2 Bcf a day contract to serve Cheniere Sabine Pass LNG facility.
We're very excited to capture that business and a very nice piece of business for us because a pretty limited capital for the size of the market that we're capturing there.
And that's a very long term well-secured contract so we're very excited about that.
And then as you can see in WMB a fairly significant reduction in capital driven by us pulling Bluegrass from our capital plans at this point.
So we certainly continue to believe the Bluegrass pipeline is a great project.
We certainly think it's the best long-term solution in the marketplace for getting all these growing NGLs from the Northeast from both the Utica and the Marcellus into the Gulf Coast.
But however we're not going to stick our necks out for the sake of the industry on that.
We've got great projects in our wheelhouse and a lot of tremendous opportunity.
They just put us in a very envious position of not having to stretch for that project.
And so we certainly hope that Bluegrass or something like it gets built for the sake of the space but that's really going to be up to the shippers and producers to determine if they want to support a project like that.
So we remain ready and able to push ahead on that project but are plenty happy with all the great long-term contracted business we're getting in the other sectors of our business.
Moving on to looking at few of the milestones that -- and the challenges here among executing large-scale value-creating projects here on Slide 6.
And really this is really just a highlight a few of the milestones and challenges that we are tackling this year.
And this slide really is just the top of the wave of all the growth that we're executing on this year.
On the next slide you'll see some of the bigger projects moving forward.
So a few things I want to highlight though here.
First of all on Transco boy what a great position we continue to enjoy on Transco.
And it's not just moving the Marcellus and the Utica supplies out of the Northeast.
It's really being driven even in a larger scale by market growth on our system.
And so just here in the past last couple of weeks we've announced major progress on 1.9 Bcf a day of new markets just in the Southeast.
So that doesn't include a lot of the market expansions we're seeing that go with Atlantic Sunrise and with Rockaway and Virginia Southside.
This is just the Southeast markets proper so 1.9 Bcf a day.
And in fact we really are going to be working to make sure we keep the supplies delivering to these projects like the Dalton Lateral the Gulf Trace project that we've mentioned a while ago and as well the Mobile Bay South III which adds about $325 million a day to meeting some critical gas generation loads in the Southeast.
On Gulfstar I just want to really give a big shout-out to our team on the E&amp;C side on this one.
They really pulled it together with some great designs some great plannings on the Gulfstar operations to get that spar set.
We got that spar set in an offshore window of about 4 weeks and that is according to the experts we deal with out there that are in the business of setting a lot of this a record for getting in and out of the major offshore campaign there.
So that does not come with luck.
That comes with great planning and I'm just very proud of our team and the way they executed on that.
We're also very excited because we think this is going to be a huge success for Hess and Chevron on their Tubular Bells prospect and we think with that kind of success comes more.
And we think is going to be a great project for them as they look back and look at the project returns they're going to gain out of this.
But it also helps other customers in the area like Nobel and we're helping them deliver Gunflint an extremely attractive schedule and returns for that project for them as well.
And so this is exactly what we're hoping to do is to help create great value for both our customers and for our shareholders at the same time and Gulfstar is a great example for that.
Regarding several of the incidents that we've had lately.
So first of all our Opal gas processing facility.
And as you'll notice we did bring back 2 of those trains back overnight and we are -- that we -- we'd shut those down last week following the fire at the facility.
Those facilities weren't damaged in any way but just as an abundance of caution we had shut that down make sure we inspected everything and make sure we were safe before we came back into service out there.
We have 2 other trains that also were not damaged in the fire and that is trains 4 and trains 5.
And with those 4 trains on we have adequate capacity to serve all of our existing business out there.
So we'll be working hard to get Trains 4 and 5 back on but we're going to make sure that we do it safe first and that's what we're focused on right now.
So I think regarding these incidents Williams we've always been very focused on being safe and being reliable.
And certainly this has come as a big surprise to our organization.
I can tell you this has my full attention and the attention of our board as well.
We're conducting very thorough investigations into each incident and see -- determine if there's any common or root cause that's common to these incidents.
And I'll tell you one thing that is common which is a bit surprising perhaps is that these historically have been some of our safest facilities when you look at typical industry standards for safety.
And certainly have been -- had gotten high marks from regulators previously kind of across-the-board.
So anyway that's the one thing that's common but we're looking hard to determine what other contributing factors may be out there and to make sure what we're doing as an enterprise to make sure that we're doing our business in as safe a manner as possible.
Not just for our own benefit but -- and our employees' benefit but to the industry's benefit as well.
So you'll expect that -- you should expect to hear a little more on that on our safety performance at the upcoming Analyst Day as well.
And then one final note on this slide I just like to commend the team at ACMP and Access Midstream continue to drive great performance for us and that is certainly continuing to drive our growth in '14 and beyond.
Looking to slide -- to the next slide here certainly a very large increase in our projects and just tremendous backlog that we're building here.
A couple of things you can pull off of this slide.
First of all you'll see a line drawn in between our WMB projects -- or sorry at the top our WPZ projects and then we draw line toward the WMB projects.
And you can see we continue to develop a pretty significant backlog of drop-down opportunities for WPZ at the WMB level.
And so that should -- certainly should not be missed.
And as well I will tell you this is really just a result.
This long backlog of great contracted projects is really the fruits of sticking to our strategy and being very focused around catching this wave of natural gas market growth both on the supply and the demand side.
Our -- we think by far we have the best visible contracted growth and it's certainly well beyond any of the other large-cap midstream players including Kinder Enterprise or Energy Transfer.
And much of this growth is driven off of our very well-positioned assets and the kind of investments we've made over the last several years gaining our position that we have today.
Our strategy we think is very much in line with our customers and the -- their access to markets and that's driving a lot of our benefit as well.
And then we remain very very focused on connecting the very best supplies in North America to the very best markets both for natural gas and for the natural gas derivatives that are coming because those are obviously low cost into the markets they serve as well.
So a very attractive set of backlog here.
And I'll tell you this continues to grow and it really just continues to present opportunities for us to allocate capital to the very best projects.
Moving to the final slide here.
Certainly going to continue right along our strategy and this great line of sight that we have to the major growth.
We continue to contribute beyond guidance in terms of new projects and new growth.
And we really look forward to talking to you about that at our Analyst Day.
And finally I'll just say we're focused on the business that's going to be there for the long haul.
We're not just focused on the opportunity du jour.
We're really focused on where we can gain a competitive advantage and reward our shareholders not just in the short term but a great focus on sustainable investments that are supported by long-term market trends and competitive advantages.
And so we think that will continue to generate opportunity for not just years but decades given the kind of position that we're staking out in the space and we're very excited about what that means for our shareholders long-term.
And so with that I'll turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Abhi Rajendran with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First on Northeast G&amp;P.
So your segment profit in 1Q was $12 million but you also maintained your full year guidance of $195 million which suggests a pretty meaningful ramp up.
So could you maybe just talk a little bit about some of the puts and takes driving this? And also what some of the main risks may be to this ramp? Hi this is Jim Scheel.
Thanks for the question Abhi.
As we looked at this winter this has been one of the worst winters we've had in the Northeast and I know over the course of the last few meetings about the reliability of the OVM system in particular there have been some challenges with that.
Those we didn't face this year.
And so volume challenges that we had were more on the producer side versus the asset side that we're operating.
So we're very excited about having a reliable system ready to move gas especially in this market of ever-increasing prices for our customers.
We see a rather rapid ramp-up of volume over the course of this year.
Obviously we saw a 2% growth between the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
But I want to remind you Abhi that during the fourth quarter of last year we had some incremental volumes coming into OVM due to the Natrium fire.
Those did not materialize or weren't in there during the first quarter of this year and we still saw an increase.
As we move through the course of the year I would expect our volumes to be slightly under perhaps what we've shown on our spreadsheets as the $335 million average but I want to emphasize we'll probably end the year with a much -- with above the $400 million that we're showing.
So I'm excited about the assets' ability to move the volumes to reach those goals.
One of the key risks that we may need to look at is related to the Chevron well pad fire and how they react to that with bringing volumes online later in the year.
This is Don Chappel.
Just to add to Jim's comments I'd also just remind you that again we're bringing a number of processing and frac facilities online during the year.
And even on the volumes -- on the growing volumes those will provide additional fees.
So we'll not just get the volume growth but we'll get additional fees for additional servicing.
To add to that that's a great point Don is we'll be bringing on a number of facilities around the OVM very quickly.
We've -- we're already starting the pre-commissioning of these assets that include the stabilizer.
That'll provide a much larger netback for our producers around their -- around their stabilized condensates.
The deethanizer I want to add that's going to be a great asset for our customers.
Again we've had some restrictions in the ability to get product into the interstate pipelines because of ethane content over the course of the last couple of months.
With the deethanizer online that will no longer be an issue.
It will allow basically unfettered flow out of the assets into the interstates.
And then as we bring on additional capacity on the West Side of the system with the 24-inch line coming in we're excited about the ability to fill up our cryos and continue the execution of building more cryos at the Oak Grove facilities as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just shifting gears a little bit just a broader question on maintenance spending.
So this appears to be trending lower over the coming years despite kind of more projects being put into place but we've also seen some of the operational problems that you referenced.
So I guess how should we think about all of this? Do you need to spend more going forward? Or efficiencies making up for it? Any color here would be very helpful.
Yes sure Abhi.
I would just tell you that if you look over time we've been at the -- I'm not sure if it's good or bad but we've been in the lead in having more maintenance capital as a percentage of our EBITDA if you look back over the last 4 years or so and that is really just driven by our focus on making absolutely sure that we're spending dollars wherever we can to improve safety and reliability on our systems.
We'll continue to do that.
I would just tell you that we got a lot of work out of the way a lot of big expensive work done out of the way in terms of -- in 2012 and that's for a number of reasons some regulatory required but as we inspected our lines we went to the areas where we thought we would have the worst conditions on our systems and as we've moved off of that group obviously we get to the newer and newer systems and the systems with less potential anomalies in it.
And so our cost per mile of inspected pipe is coming down dramatically on us because we're getting into the better and better pipes.
So we saw kind of a big run up there in '11 to '12 driven by things like the Clean Air Act and some pipeline inspection rules.
And that was really kind of driving that.
So not telling you that you should expect that to continue to go lower because we don't have that built into our plan.
But so far just the things that we've been hitting lately as we inspect our pipes we've had less repairs required.
So we basically have to forecast what we do expect to find with our in-line inspection tools.
And our pipeline inspections we basically have to estimate how much of that we'll have to repair and that's been coming down over time just again because we're into the better -- some of our better-conditioned pipe.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then one last quick one if I may.
So I guess one of the emerging debates in the industry is the viability of the export market for ethane and you guys are in a unique position to kind of evaluate this.
So could you maybe just your thoughts on this in terms of where the supply-demand balance is headed longer term in your view? How do you know -- how big of a market you think this could be? Any color there would be great.
Yes Abhi.
I'm going to ask John Dearborn.
He is quite the student of that issue.
And I'm going to ask him to offer his thoughts on that.
Yes.
Hi Abhi.
Thanks very much.
It is an interesting idea.
It think I'm a bit schizophrenic on the idea of this so let's talk about both sides.
From one perspective you'd really like to see some better price signals out there on ethane so the necessary infrastructure gets built and you get supply reliability to the industry to the petrochemical industry which of course we're a participant of but of course that could mean ethane prices going up.
So moving some ethane offshore I think begins to increase some of the demand which perhaps begins to create a better balance there so that we do get the infrastructure that provides the supply reliability which then assures on the demand side that people continue to invest capital.
On a very positive note though that -- and I can't speak to the project that was recently announced.
But on a very positive note to projects like this I think there's also an opportunity because there are some shortages out there in the world for ethylene that we could export some ethylene from some of these ethane facilities.
And I think that bodes well for the ethylene balance in North America which would be a very positive dynamic for us with our investment at Geismar today.
So I see a fair bit of positive there.
Exactly how big the market is going to be for ethane export that's a difficult challenge a difficult question to answer right now.
But I do see positive dynamics on the -- potentially on the ethylene site.
We'll go next to Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Just a maybe a micro and a macro question.
First on the micro side with respect to Geismar.
And Don perhaps this is for you.
With -- if you could just give us an update on when you see the next tranche of insurance recoveries coming? And I guess perhaps an associated question is to the extent that what was in the first quarter adjusted EPS was a relatively large healthy number for Geismar given that amount do you see business interruption actually being sustained through the outage period? Or are we going to see a little bit of a gap between that ending and the plant coming back online? Good morning Carl.
In terms of the next tranche of cash I would expect we'll see some cash in the second quarter.
We've made an application with the insurers for the next period of loss and it's going through their process.
So I would expect we'll see some cash in the second quarter.
I think we've disclosed that our business interruption insurance combined with our property damage insurance would substantially offset the down time.
We think that's still the case.
Exactly what that is will be dependent on the Geismar -- I'll call them pro forma margins had Geismar has been up and running and as well as our negotiations with the insurance companies.
But I don't think anything has really changed.
I think we're about where we were the last time we talked.
Fair enough.
And then maybe macro question for Alan.
And this might perhaps start getting into 2016 thoughts but I just wanted to get a little bit more color on the ramifications perhaps of not doing Bluegrass.
In the sense of do you think that for instance what had happened with Atlantic Sunrise where you had to see that train hitting the market before people were willing to sign onto long-term contracts.
Without Bluegrass do see perhaps the industry needing to get hit first before we will see longer-term contracts? But ultimately I'm trying to kind of get to are you more nervous than before perhaps of 2016 drilling activity? I know that's kind of an open-ended question but any additional color there would help.
Carl great questions as always.
I would just tell you that certainly I think that there's a lot of people kind of counting on somebody else solving the problem as it relates to Bluegrass.
And frankly we're not going to be the ones to do that for the whole industry without adequate contractual support.
And -- but yet we still believe that something needs to get done.
We're very interested in seeing the very best project available to the market come forward and get subscribed and whether it's Bluegrass or whether it's a combination of other projects we're not all that jealous of the opportunity frankly just because we have so many other great investment opportunities and very well contracted opportunities.
But we certainly think that something -- a solution does need to get resolved.
Used an interesting term there to say that the train that we would have to hit out here.
And I would just tell you that that is going to be issue is people are going to understand in the not-too-distant future that railing all of this product out of the area is just not going to be a sustainable solution.
But I think that's kind of what's got the market thinking it can continue to ignore the longer-term issue at this point.
So we're going to remain very engaged in the subject for both our own project and for other potential projects that might come along.
And we'll certainly stand by ready with Bluegrass for the industry if it becomes adequately supported by contract.
You are correct.
I do see this a little bit like Atlantic Access where the market just wasn't quite ready for it and just didn't feel the pain quite enough yet.
And I do think that as we get into this summer and into next winter when a lot of this new production and these -- starts to ramp up.
As for our forecast our forecast that we see through Access and our forecast that we see through Blue Racer we see a lot of liquids coming into the market and we're certainly hopeful that we can get a project supported that will not deter drilling in 2016 because this is some tremendous resource out here.
And we're going to have to work as an industry to come up with the right market access and we certainly look forward to being a part of that.
Great.
And then just to sort of paraphrase back though.
You're thinking that with the supply models that you all are seeing that we could in fact see that pain as early as next winter? I'd -- yes if you look at the ramp-up in volumes that we're expecting I think we will see some pretty big improvement in volumes.
We'll go next to Christine Cho with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I noticed last quarter that your ownership in Caiman Energy II had moved higher and this quarter's data book confirmed an incremental 11% it looked.
Can you talk about who sold and was management included? Also can you discuss how the exit plans of the private equity guys work? Do you have the right of first refusal and then it goes to Dominion and then any third parties? Christine this is Don Chappel.
We had an option in our Caiman II deal to increase our ownership by funding a proportion of the amount of the capital investments.
So we chose to act.
We had a good look at the -- how the business was developing.
We liked what we saw so we exercised our option to invest a greater amount than our partners and increase our ownership accordingly.
So we did that.
In terms of the exit we have a right of first offer on the sale so we'll see what the sellers choose to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
We noticed some of the majors receiving permits in Marshall and Wetzel Counties in first quarter the very end of fourth quarter.
But I was unable to tell if they was Utica or Marcellus.
Can you provide any insight into any updates on their plans to develop the acreage? Also one of the majors also had an impressive well in Utica in Marshall County.
Can you talk about what that may mean for you on a near-term and longer-term basis if the play is as great as IP rates could suggest? Sure.
This is Jim Scheel.
I'll let the majors speak for themselves as far as any specifics related to their forecasts.
But I will say generically we've had a number of folks in our offices talking about the additional drilling specifically around the Utica dry.
I would say there's an upside opportunity for us at OVM to be gathering some of that Utica dry gas into our system gathering that for them.
We have some extra capacity at the plants today so that wouldn't impact our liquids volumes to provide us with some near-term additional opportunity.
Right now that's not baked into our plans but I think what you'll see is as folks are delineating that dry side you'll see more and more permits issued so they get a better feel for what they have in that particular area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I noticed you've started to kind of put Pacific Connector in your slides.
It's looking like the probability of Jordan Cove its moving forward is getting higher.
And something that I thought was interesting was that we've seen some pipeline projects for other LNG facilities contingent on the LNG projects receiving FERC approval and not necessarily FID.
For you can you discuss a little bit what has to happen for you guys for it to move out from under the potential project umbrella and into development? Yes certainly.
This is Allison Bridges.
Yes we are very excited for all of the progress that we are seeing on Jordan Cove and Pacific Connector.
We have nonbinding agreements with shippers so that would really exceed the total capacity.
Before we would be ready to I guess move to approval for that project we will be looking to turn those nonbinding agreements into binding agreements.
We are hopeful that we will get the FERC certificate perhaps by the end of this year or early next year.
So that is another major milestone.
I will say with respect to the FERC certificate the route that we have on Pacific Connector was actually previously approved by FERC so we think it's just a matter of timing on that.
Research Division</strong> Well I wasn't actually talking about FERC approval for the pipeline.
I was talking about the FERC approval for the LNG project.
But it sounds like for you it's just -- it has nothing to do with the LNG projects you're seeing FERC or FID.
It's the customers just have to contract with you.
No.
I mean we certainly are working jointly and expect the same FERC approval timing and customer commitments for both Jordan Cove and Pacific Connector.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me the Gulf Trace project is that like just Zone 3 max rates? Is that how we should think about that? Rory you want to take that please? Yes.
This is -- Christine this is Rory Miller.
That project is a -- it's a negotiated rate.
It will eventually be rolled in and so it's a little bit lower than what the postage stamp rate would be and therefore it's required to be rolled in.
We'll hear next from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk about use of cash a bit at WMB now that you've canceled Bluegrass.
How should we think about the disposition there whether it's the path of the dividends? Maybe it's M&amp;A or obviously you do have a big backlog of projects that you're developing potentially up at WMB.
Can you talk us through that? Ted this is Don.
Yes one we do have -- obviously we have dividend but in terms of the excess cash flow at Williams beyond the 20% annual dividend increase that we've guided to we do have some projects that are in development that we've highlighted here.
And that cash is earmarked for those projects.
Beyond that we'll have a high-class problem of choosing whether or not we have any additional projects or if we just roll that cash into an even greater dividend.
So we're moving more and more to a call it pure-play HoldCo model.
And as WPZ financial capacity grows we would expect more of the organic growth to be funded at WPZ and less so at Williams.
And again so moving more and more the a GP HoldCo where Williams can put all -- substantially all of our excess cash flow into the business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then if I can ask about Geismar 2 can you just give us some more color about what that exactly is? Is it an expansion? Is it a greenfield? How big is it? What's the capital? Just maybe some rough numbers there.
Yes.
Thanks for the question.
Geismar 2 is we're out in the market right now trying to assess the market's interest in participating in an investment there.
Our concept and we're going to be talking more about this at the analyst meeting coming up or analyst day coming up in New York but our concept there is to build a cost advantage large cracker.
It would be greenfield.
We have expanded Geismar if I could call it Geismar 1 for the moment about as big as Geismar 1 could be expanded.
I think we're about done with expansion save for perhaps some incrementals there.
So that's a concept between -- about what we're thinking on this -- another investment on the river in ethylene.
Research Division</strong> But you would do it as a JV? Or you would do it a standalone by yourself? Yes the current concept is we're considering a JV with perhaps 1 at most 2 other partners that would build derivative capacity alongside it so creating new demand.
And then we would take our volumes and sell them into the market on a fee-for-service basis.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
And then if I can just ask one more.
As we're thinking about Transco and the ultimate -- and the growth in the Marcellus even in the Northeast as you look out 3 to 5 years here and the ability to do backhauls down to the Southeast what do you think is the ultimate capacity that Transco could move in that direction? And then maybe can you talk about the incremental capital you might need to spend to achieve that throughput? Rory could you take that please? Yes I'd be happy to take that.
With -- if you think over the last couple of years we've had a series of projects that were primarily designed to move Marcellus supply into the traditional market areas on Transco.
The first ones are Northeast Supply Link.
The second one was Leidy Southeast.
The third was Constitution.
Now that's not impacting the Transco system at all but it's certainly pulling reserves out of that area.
And then the fourth project is Atlantic Sunrise.
And all of those projects -- or at least the 3 Transco projects had the feature of taking advantage of some of the latent capacity or latent capabilities that existed on the system to be backhauled or to be designed to change the flow from north to south.
As we start moving beyond the volumes that we currently have contracted the costs do start to go up.
And so I think the big question there is where's the market for service for producers in that area to get to an end user that they can contract with take their gas.
And the market's going to have to be higher than say the market that was established for Atlantic Access for us to do more.
However if you start looking at new greenfield projects out of the area you'll be looking at rates far in excess of the rates that we contracted for in Atlantic Sunrise.
So I know that's a little bit unclear on -- as to the question you asked but on a per-unit basis the capital required is going to be higher on future projects than it has been on the projects in the past.
We'll go next to Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> With regards to Bluegrass do you anticipate that this could be a project you would revisit within a year or 2? And I guess do you have the contracts set up with Boardwalk to enable you to do this.
Especially on I guess their ability to I guess repurpose part of their pipeline? Yes certainly we have a great relationship with Boardwalk and I would tell you that we're working to make sure that if there is a project there that makes sense we're -- we got the ability to move forward with the project.
And at the same time Boardwalk's got the rights -- under certain conditions has the rights to utilize that capacity for gas if they see a demand or a higher value in that direction after a certain period of time here.
And so I think we've struck the right balance between us in terms of how to move forward on the project.
And so I think it's really kind of a matter of time.
I think for the meantime I think there is plenty of alternative uses or alternative ways to move gas south and quite a bit of capacity to do that on various lines including the existing -- 2 other existing Texas gas lines that would still be in gas service.
So -- or on Boardwalk's system.
So I would leave that to Boardwalk to answer a little more -- in a little more fine manner.
But from our vantage point we've struck the right balance that allows us to keep Bluegrass on the table and also under certain conditions allows them to move forward with something that makes sense for Boardwalk.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess any estimate on the potential financial impact of the Opal incident? Sharon this is Don.
We expect a $10 million impact on property damage with the excess property damage covered by insurance.
We expect the -- I'll call it the business interruption loss to be very modest particularly given that we already have 2 of the plants back up in operation and we're hopeful that we can bring the other 2 undamaged plants into operation in the not-too-distant future.
So expect $10 million in property damage and a very modest loss related to the downtime.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any update on the regulatory front for Constitution and perhaps the timing of that project? Rory you want to take that? Sure.
Yes on Constitution we have started getting into some of the typical project milestones.
The FERC issued a favorable draft environmental impact statement back on February 12 and they'd asked for comments by April 7.
A lot of parties were asking to get that date extended.
The FERC did not do that and held fast with their schedule and we appreciated that.
I would say in general that the FERC has been very workmanlike in terms of laying out a plan and sticking to it.
So we're very satisfied with what the FERC has been doing so far.
They've been trying to I think do their part in terms of helping us get the projects built.
Right now we're working with FERC and the New York DEC in a coordinated fashion to try to get any of the remaining questions answered and the details checked off with the hope that we're going to get a final decision sometime later this year.
But it is part of a process and I'd say it's moving well.
But at the end of the day there's probably more things that are uncontrollable in terms of going through the regulatory process than there are in terms of doing just the actual physical construction.
In terms of in-service date I think right now I'd say that what we've guided so far is -- those are still good assumptions.
We'll hear next from ISI Group Timm Schneider.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up question on the maintenance CapEx.
Obviously it was $36 million.
In Q1 you addressed so many weather issues.
But if I go off your full year guidance of $340 million does that kind of imply -- I just want to get the arithmetic right that this actually jumps to $100 million over the next 3 quarters? It actually -- if you look at our pattern of spending on that Timm you'd see that second quarter is always kind of our highest because we've got a lot of work going on kind of winding up waiting for a thaw out.
And so I would say generally you'll see our heaviest spending on maintenance capital in the second quarter followed by fairly high third quarter and then it tends to taper off in the fourth quarter because winter starts to impact our ability to get work done there again.
So I think if you look back to our historical patterns that's what you should expect.
Research Division</strong> But there's no change at this point to that $340 million? That's -- that is correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then next question on OVM can you just kind of give us a sense of what utilization rate these assets were running at in the first quarter and what is kind of implied to get to your 2014 guidance? Well OVM was running during the first quarter of this year.
We -- let me look at this real quick.
We were running at about 271 a day.
We obviously have a lot more capacity coming online than that.
I'm really not focused on the capacity issue right now.
We can take everything that customers can bring to us.
We're anticipating having that growing to over 400 by the end of the year.
What I'm the most focused on as it relates to capacity really are those issues related to the new assets coming online this year.
That will help us both from increasing our fee-based revenue to also maximizing our customer netbacks.
And so as you can see the second and third quarter come online with those incremental assets that's what we'll be really focusing on.
And then we'll be taking all the gas that the customers can produce out of OVM.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last question for me is on Atlantic Sunrise is there any read-through on the regulatory front that you guys have picked up from Constitution versus that? Or is it just a completely different ballgame because it's more looping and just compression? Yes Timm I'll take that.
First of all I think one of the major differences is we're dealing primarily with a big chunk of that will be through the state of Pennsylvania.
And I would tell you the state of Pennsylvania has been very businesslike and approached things in a fashion that's very cooperative.
And so I think that's probably one of the biggest differences frankly.
It is not all along existing right of way though just to be clear.
There is some greenfield route coming south of the Leidy diamond if you will or the Leidy lateral.
Where it ties back into our main line is a greenfield.
And so we certainly will have routing issues to deal with there that we don't get to enjoy along with looping our existing lines.
So there is some existing looping on there but there's also some greenfield expansion there.
But I would just say the area that we're going through does not deal with some of the New York DEC permitting issues that we're facing on Constitution.
Research Division</strong> And actually I have one more quick one.
In the slide deck you moved the opportunity set you outlined with PEMEX in the Atlantic-Gulf segment from 2019 to kind of 2017.
And I was just wondering if you could talk about those opportunities in a bit more detail.
Sure.
That is gaining some steam I would say.
I think PEMEX is very focused on developing those deepwater reserves in a very timely manner for a number of reasons I think.
I think their elections are in 2018 and I think they certainly want to show that.
But I would remind you there that that 2017 is actually 2017 plus so not as big a change that we were intending to indicate there.
But I would say at the same time while you ask the question that they are going to try the accelerate that as much as possible and that's why a project like or system like Gulfstar with our existing pipelines in the area and our capabilities is really important to that in terms of speed to the market.
So we're very excited to be positioned well for that opportunity.
We'll hear next from Becca Followill with U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Research Division</strong> On WPZ and your discussion of not issuing any equity in 2015 and minimal equity in 2014 can you talk about how far you're willing to lever up at WPZ in terms of debt to EBITDA? Now Becca this is Don.
That implies call that up to a 4x debt-to-equity -- excuse me debt-to-EBITDA ratio so again well within the BBB investment-grade band that WPZ enjoys.
So really nothing in terms of levering up.
It's just really the cash flows are growing at such a rapid rate that it creates substantial additional debt capacity.
Research Division</strong> And does that -- can we translate that over to WMB? And can you discuss your willingness to go non-investment grades there? I think our position is that this management team and the board chosen to maintain investment grade at Williams and that's where we're at.
But having said that we'll certainly always be open to looking at what kind of value we can create and balance that with risk.
But again the management team and the board have chosen investment grade at both WPZ and Williams.
So it mitigates some risk during more challenging financial times and puts Williams in a more opportunistic position during challenging financial times.
And while things are rolling pretty nicely in the capital markets we know that on a pretty regular basis the high-yield market does shut down.
So that's the advantage that having both WPZ and Williams at investment grade provides us.
Research Division</strong> And then last question is on -- once again on the Northeast volumes and your guidance for the year.
The $195 million of EBIT for the year it's -- should we start to see a material ramp-up in the second quarter? Or is this going to be very much a back-end loaded kind of thing? Again this is Jim Scheel.
As we look at the second and third quarters just again to reemphasize we'll be bringing on substantial new assets during the end of the second quarter.
That would be driving additional fee-based revenue.
We do see a pretty significant ramp-up during the second -- or during the third and fourth quarter.
I've mentioned earlier I think in our package that we've provided we're showing an average of about $335 million a day for OVM.
I think that will be a little bit short of that as far as the yearly average goes.
Right now we're anticipating about $327 million but ending the year at a much higher rate.
So in excess of the $400 million that we're showing there is our current thoughts around that.
So yes we do have a pretty significant ramp-up.
And I think that's in line with what you see from others whether that be ACMP or Blue Racer also showing pretty significant volume growth as producers take advantage of this gas environment we're in today.
Our next question comes from Bradley Olsen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to stay on the Northeast and maybe push a little bit harder on Timm's question which was related to the utilization rate.
Just trying to tie together the kind of disparate commentary that you hear from the upstream and your midstream peers in the Marcellus.
We're hearing some midstream guys talk about utilization rates for processing assets in the Marcellus that are kind of in the 60% to 70% range.
But at the same time we're hearing upstream guys continue to mention that they do have wells that are waiting on pipe or stuck behind infrastructure constraints.
And so maybe just to kind of go back to that question of utilization rate and just to make sure I understand Jim's comments talking about the $327 million a day average moving to above $400 million by the end of the year.
Am I right in thinking that that's -- you've got the $500 million at Fort Beeler another $200 million at Oak Grove by the end of this year and I should kind of think of utilization in excess of $400 million across that asset base? That's right.
Not to -- again I haven't really focused on the ultimate capacity of the system.
We're working to fill up what we've got today.
But as we look at Oak Grove coming online with TXP-1 we've got the ability to add significantly more cryo capacity at that facility.
We can have up to 10 cryos at that facility.
We have a great piece of flat land.
We'll talk to you a little bit more about this at analyst day.
But when I think of the total capacity for the OVM system were really in excess of 2 Bcf a day.
So it's really -- we will be able now with these foundational assets to stay ahead of our customers.
And so as we see their drilling profiles coming online we'll be adding additional infrastructure if necessary.
It's not going to be near as much pipe.
We'll be connecting to the CRPs making sure that we have the processing and the compression in place in order to meet their needs.
And what is so nice now is where we have struggled in the past around some of those challenges as we've come into 2014 we're well positioned to do that.
Customers have recognized the increased reliability and our ability to get their gas to market.
So we will build to meet our customers' needs and we can meet all of the needs that they have today through our assets as we bring on the stabilization the deethanizer.
The ethane line the additional 24-inch line on the West side and then TXP-1 at Oak Grove we've got a great story of growth to tell and the ability to meet the customer needs.
So Brad just to add a little color.
That's a great job by Jim kind of describing the situation out there.
But it is not as simple as just do I have processing capacity out there.
It depends on do you have the trunk line laterals to be able to reach out and get the gas.
Do you have the air permit requirements to set compression to pick up the gas? Do you have ethane deethanization capacity to be able to not get constrained into the interstates and backup gas that way? And so it's a tremendous amount of planning required between the producers and the midstream companies to not have underutilized capacity but to be able to be drilling where the capacity is.
And I would highlight a perfect example of that great planning that goes on between us and Cabot in the Northeast.
And if you looked at the utilization of our facilities there you would see it very high and you'd also see a limited constrain limited to their activity limited constrained production on Cabot's part again relative to their tremendous growth profile that they're on.
And so that's a great example of the kind of planning that can be done and that we'd certainly try to encourage with customers.
And as Jim mentioned earlier he's had -- that's starting to be recognized because he's had customers coming into his office wanting to sit down and make sure that they've got capacity for things like some of this burgeoning Utica drilling that is really starting to gain some attention right there in the footprint of OVM.
Yes.
And I guess and even a follow-up to Alan as we talk about the Susquehanna Supply Hub or formerly ABA market area up in the Northeast our capacity will be going up towards the top end of that as we go through the course of 2014 into '15.
And we're already thinking ahead of how do we continue to expand that capacity through compression in order to meet our customer needs across the board.
Those investments in that incremental volume isn't in guidance but those discussions have already started taking place as working with our customers in order to facilitate all of their needs.
And it is a complex issue.
As Alan was pointing out it's one that I think across the Northeast we're getting much better at.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's great color.
I appreciate those comments and the one -- I guess the one final question which kind of relates to the comments about the development of the dryer gas portion of the Utica.
Do you think -- you mentioned that you have more of a 2 Bcf a day system in OVM which I assume refers more to the aggregate gathering capacity.
Do you think that you'll be more focused on gathering -- high-pressure gathering services as opposed to incremental processing once you're done with the Oak Grove build-out just due to the fact that the drill bit does seem to be moving towards the dryer areas around that kind of northern West Virginia area? And then just one final one which is it looks like the kind of per Mcf margin implied by your guidance in Northeast G&amp;P is significantly higher in the latter half of the year than it is currently.
And is that just kind of the resulting higher fees that you're able to collect with stabilization ethane and the addition of the trunk line that you've got laid out here in your presentation? And that's all.
Okay.
Well there are a lot of questions there.
Let me start out and let's make sure I don't miss one.
Starting out as it relates to the opportunities around the dry Utica I would say we still continue to be very excited about the wet Marcellus obviously.
We've built a wet system at OVM.
It's one where we have the ability to continue to expand our cryo facilities in order to meet that need and maximize netbacks for our customers.
Yes the incremental improvement in fee-based revenue will come through both increased gathering as well as the additional services provided to our customers.
So that will improve our overall revenue position for OVM.
As it relates to the dry gas area I think we're perfectly positioned to go in the near term put some of that dry gas into our existing system.
Obviously we won't -- we'll be running that through the plant where we won't be getting any liquids but with surplus plant capacity right now we have the ability to do that.
And let -- and work with our customers in order to help them identify what they've got.
And as far as the resource potential in the dry area we're all very excited about that potential to the extent we need to have a duplicate dry gas system built because I believe again I believe a lot in the wet area.
And to the extent where we continue to build out that it would really be a separate dry gas system.
As we think about putting in some of the 24-inch lines well there is the potential I guess to repurpose some of our lines.
Those will be -- that would be on our planning horizon as we talk to the customers.
Again this all really comes back to making sure we're planning with our customers about what they need and when they need it.
I think that dialogue is beginning to open up as they learn more about this.
And because of our great competitive position in that marketplace I think we're well positioned to meet any of those requirements as they evolve.
Again a big dry gas build-out though is not contemplated in any of the numbers that you're seeing here today.
I don't know if that was every one of the questions but I think it was.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> No that's great.
And the only other one was just am I right in thinking that margin per Mcf is set to increase in latter portion of the year in the Northeast? Yes.
Yes it is because the margin will increase because of the additional services we're providing through OVM.
In addition to that we have some higher revenues coming from the recontracting around ABA.
We'll hear next from Chris Sighinolfi with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick cleanup for me and actually it's probably for Don.
And this is really just tied to NGL and pet chem.
Lots of moving parts in the quarter with BI and the drop-down.
But just wondering if you guys could quantify the DCF impact from the dropped assets for the period owned and sort of how that compares to the guidance you gave us earlier in the year.
I think you were looking for 130 to 160 on the full year and so just wondering how sort of initial 1 month of owned DCF sort of stacks up against that.
I think our initial guidance Chris contemplated 3 months of ownership of PZ.
And as it turned out there was 1 full month of ownership because the drop-down happened a couple of months later than what we expected when we put out that guidance in the first place.
The good news Williams enjoyed those earnings for January and February instead and the -- yes the 1 month was about $15 million to $20 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you guys -- just quick follow-up on that.
You guys had flagged some tie-in issues and third-party disruptions in 4Q up there.
Just wondering if all that's resolved at this point.
Yes.
That is a great question now.
And yes we did through the first quarter but we're tight-lined to Suncor up there.
They did have some operating issues at the upgrader which reduced our volumes approximately by about 20%.
At the end of the quarter all of those issues were resolved and we're back to full volume.
So looking forward we can expect Canada to deliver at its full potential.
With no further questions in the queue I'd like to turn the call back to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay well great.
Thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
As you can tell a lot of excitement about the quarter and the growth prospects that we have in front of us.
And we'd just say we look forward to seeing you at analyst day and sharing a little more of that with you and particularly as we look further in beyond '15.
So thanks again for joining us and we're excited -- we very much look forward to seeing you at the upcoming analyst day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's call.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Rochelle.
Good morning and welcome.
As always we thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our websites williams.com and williamslp.com.
These items include yesterdays press releases with related schedules and the accompanying analyst packages the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to you momentarily and an update to our data books which contain detailed information regarding various aspects of our business.
In addition to Alan we also have the four leaders of our operating areas with us Jim Scheel leads our Northeastern G&amp;P operating area Allison Bridges leads our Western operating area Rory Miller leads our Atlantic Gulf area and John Dearborn leads our NGL &amp; Petchem Services operating area.
Additionally our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to any questions.
In yesterdays presentation and also in our data books you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that weve reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that Ill turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Good morning John and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
Certainly the second quarter was very exciting for Williams as we seized the opportunity to make an important acquisition that moved us closer to fulfilling our vision of being a premier provider of reliable large scale infrastructure that really has become very clear to everybody that this kind of large scale infrastructure is going to be absolutely critical to allow North America to take advantage of its fast natural gas resources.
We also rapidly accelerated our earlier stated plans of establishing WMB as a pure-play G&amp;P hold-co and continue to lead the space and dividend growth by very wide margin.
At WPZ we had another strong quarter with operation performance being in line with our expectations and driving a 30% increase in distributable cash flow at WPZ.
We also enjoyed great progress in execution on a number of very important projects in the second quarter a tremendous amount of work going on in the organization on this front and just to name a few and you really only hear about the very largest projects but a tremendous amount of efforts going on across the organization but just to name a few Gulfstar Keathley Canyon the condensate stabilizer at Oak Grove and Ohio Valley Midstream area the new ethane line which is being completed in the OVM area and we also started construction finally on the Rockaway Beach Lateral after a very long and drawn out permitting process.
So for those of you there in the New York you look at see some of that work going on in fact on the front of our slide you see some picture of that.
So thats going to allow us to bring that project in on schedule as well.
So a lot of very big projects that we made tremendous progress on and remain on schedule on some of those major projects.
We also saw continued strong demand for our services with two significant new market pull projects on Transco that were fully contracted and I think its becoming pretty evident that Transco discontinues to line up these hits and Ill tell you thats not slowing down in terms of continued business development opportunities just keep coming at us in that business line.
The Marcellus area volumes continued their rapid growth as well with a 31% increase in gathered volumes as compared to last years 2Q volumes and we are on track once again to lead the industry on volume growth in the Marcellus this year.
Our Geismar E&amp;C efforts were in line with plan and our rebuild was completed last week.
Our final efforts on the expansion will be done by the end of next week.
So our E&amp;C team our engineering and construction team is wrapping up and moving out as we now are turning that important solely over to our operations team.
Unfortunately and certainly this is something were all very disappointed around here with but unfortunately did find a new concern there at Geismar that is going to require enhancement to our safety systems that we expect to cause about a six to eight week delay in the first sale at that point at Geismar.
As I mentioned this is certainly disappointing to us but as difficult as this is Ill tell you I am proud of the fact that our organization will always put a safety of our people first and this is certainly just our organization following those words with action by having the courage to pause and do the right thing in terms of making sure that that plan is as safe as possible.
So even though this is an out of the norm situation here I know this is such a big issue I really would like to take you back to the appendix and if you look back on I believe it is slide 14 in this deck and well move that on our webcast even though it is out of order here.
You will see that on slide 14 we show the incredible progress that has been made on the expansion and the rebuild and the pre-commissioning efforts which were all but complete and will be complete at the end of next week in terms of getting all of our systems turned over to operations.
So what does that mean it basically means systems like our steam systems all of our auxiliary systems and we break those down in to about 62 different systems and as those are mechanically complete we turn them over to our operations team for them to take control of those facilities.
And so we were finalizing some of the release valve study that was required as a result of the event of June 13th we determined and were frankly a bit surprised but determined that there was another scenario that we needed to be prepared for in the event of a blow down or the event of an error at the plant and the malfunction of the plant.
And that assumption that we embedded has required us to do go back and study the press release system and we determine as we did that that we actually had to make some further modification to the relief valve system again certainly a tough decision to do that but again I think absolutely the right line when it comes putting a safety ahead of anything else in our business.
So you can see here in July 31 we are started on that relief valve system and modifications we had a lot of this the plant already buttoned up and in many cases lot of the systems were dried out we havent open the system back up now and so that introduces moisture into the system.
So when you see that plant dry up its basically backing up on some of the systems that we had already turned over.
And so we think the relief valve system modifications will take about seven weeks and in parallel that as we start to complete button up some of those systems will start to dry out and will start tuning up some of the cracking furnaces there and so thats the second blue part that you see they are called plant dry out and hydrocarbon introduction.
And then finally moving us to a first week in October as we start to get into ethylene production and so one of the things I would like to clear here that is certainly our target.
We think that is a very achievable target but in terms of our financial projections just given the number of issues we face there we have spread that contingency up and basically we have the range in our financials now just basically starting with that first ethylene production running through the end of the year and so thats the range of outcomes that weve got to built into guidance now.
So we are building ourselves some additional contingencies in there beyond what our targeted date is there.
So thats our detail and well be happy to take any questions on that later John Dearborn will be here to help address in that as well.
Moving on now to the rest of the presentation and on the Slide seven its really a impressive growth numbers continue to be posted were both WPZ and ACMP and that continues to drive very impressive cash flow growth at Williams and this is especially impressive when you consider that in the second quarter we only recognize about two months of business interruption coverage there Geismar.
And so our fee-based revenues in the quarter continue to steady march up into the right and despite a very mild second quarter in terms of any weather on our pipeline systems we still continue to move that up about 7% over 2Q of last year on our fee-based revenues and I think also important were well over 80% of our reported net revenues were coming from fee-based services.
It also should be understood much of the big capital investments that weve been making here really over last two and half three years dont start producing cash flow until the third quarter and fourth quarter of the year as Gulfstar Keathley Canyon and our OVM or Ohio Valley Midstream investment really began to generate significant cash flow and earnings here in the last half of the year.
And then of course ACMP continues its very steady progress up into the right as this group continues to benefit from its very tight focus on growing the gathering the compressions business in the nations very best natural gas basins.
So Im very pleased with the way the business is continuing to expand and weve got a really exciting last half of the year in front of it.
Now looking at some of these important growth drivers that we continue to focus on and report to our investors.
One item of significance been added to this was you will see there at the bottom is the ACMP acquisition and in terms of results pretty impressive work by our finance and legal teams this last second quarter moving from price agreement with GIP all the way to closure within a matter about five or six weeks.
So very impressive work by that team and just continues to shine light on the kind of town we have around here and our commitment to continue to drive shareholder value here at Williams.
And so this was the half year represents a tremendous amount of effort really across the whole organization and with the exception of Geismar we are very pleased with the results on the store card here as we pause here in first part of third quarter.
Now there is certainly many E&amp;C projects that are nearly complete and now we are beginning to turn our attention on the next waiver projects that just keep coming things are very well positioned assets and the competitive advantages that we constantly focus on developing.
Ill tell you thats a very natural part of the way we run the business here at Williams and a lot of these major large scale projects that we take on and the challenges that we take on really are in support of making sure we maintain strong competitive advantages in our business.
So moving onto Slide nine and looking forward here to this next waiver project we see that this list is long and it just keeps coming.
The bulk of the large projects in 2015 come from our Atlantic Gulf region that continue to perform very well Atlantic Gulf region continues to execute and continues to hit this number on a regular basis.
And we certainly are as we look here at the projects in 15 many of these are really in the major projects are expansions of our Transco and our gas pipeline system in the Atlantic Gulf area projects like Kodiak for instance really are capital led to tie back to an existing facility and we do have continued what we call program capital as we continue to build up northeast GMP but a bulk of our major projects have really in the northeast a lot of that is getting out of the way this year and weve really set ourselves up for a lot of big fundamental growth looking forward beyond 2014 in the northeast.
The major projects in 2017 really come on light in the year but our backlog of projects beyond 2017 just keeps building and you really should expect this to continue for some time as we bring the combined strength of both WPZ and ACMP now and bring those resources together and the opportunities that they combination brings really is going to be critical as the nation here tries to get up on a 100 Bcf natural gas market.
We think Williams and the combined entity is going to be very much at the forefront of reaching that 100 Bcf today gas market here in the U.S.
So moving to Slide 10 Im kind of looking at the big picture of what this new MLP would be we are we couldnt be more excited about not only the size the scale of this MLP but the very consistent focus on being the player in the natural gas phase and natural gas products and derivatives they are coming out of this big road to natural gas and we think the combination of Williams access just continues to load us towards more and more growth just some important things to note on here that are very impressive in 2015 and expected EBITDA of about $5 billion and in addition to that continued best in class growth distribution of 10% to 12% which is really impressive when you consider the scale and what it takes to grow the cash distribution in this business and something of this scale.
And so continuing to be able to do that through 2017 and maintain strong coverage really provide an investment vehicle that we think is absolutely unmatched and is going to continue to give us the kind of firepower to continue to expand this business larger and larger.
So couldnt be more excited about the combination of this business and if you look on slide 11 this really conveys the breadth here that Williams has but it also shows really what ACMP is doing for us in the upstream piece of our business and if you think about the way we have genuinely grown a lot of our businesses over the year we basically have linked and levered either the market back into the upstream or we have taken the upstream and the gathering &amp; processing business and move those opportunities downstream certainly nothing is more obvious about how we have done that in recent times you know many times over the years nothing is more obviously than the way thats is going for us up in the Susquehanna supply area and the ability that we have generated may large projects off of about brig upstream growing volumes there.
So if you look at that and think about ACMP today on a operated gathering volumes PZ and ACMP are every close to the same number and if you look it on a capacity basis WPZ is larger part of that just because of the legacy large scale assets that we have had out in the Western basins.
But nevertheless very impressive position in the gathering space upstream and our ability continue to deliver services and link that to service opportunities for our customers downstream this basically just reloads our set of opportunities in continuing to grow that I can tell you didnt feel like we needed a lot of that but nevertheless I have got a lot of confidence in not just the assets but the combination of the people of ACMP and Williams there is some incredible strengths at ACMP that frankly we are very excited to have hitched to our wagon and a lot we can learn frankly from expanding the upstream gathering business and a great job they have done there and what PZ brings to that of course is the ability to continue to expand opportunities beyond that.
So tremendous strategic fit as well as a great financial for Williams and WPZ.
So moving on to slide 12 here really couldnt be more excited about how we are positioned strategically right now and thrilled to see the ACMP piece come along it further fills our hand out and this scale and the opportunity set that we have and the growth that we have we think is unmatched.
And we have a very fired up organization I can tell you right now very excited to take on these new opportunities both at the ACMP level and at the Williams level.
So very excited about the quarter disappointed with Geismar but extremely excited about the second half of this year and the kind of growth we are going to get to witness here in the second half of the year.
And with that Ill turn it over to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And first well hear from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Christine.
Your other fee revenues in the Northeast doubled quarter-over-quarter even though NGL production didnt change that much.
I am assuming that this is the condensate handling that came on during the quarter.
When did that come on and how much of the 6 000 barrels per day capacity are you using currently? Jim can you take that please? Sure Christine good to talk to you again.
Thats correct thats the stabilizer fee revenue and the stabilizer came on it was 50% of the stabilizer I should say came on you can see we have the first phase of 6 000 barrels a day come on in April of this year.
And that how much of that capacity are you currently using? We are using about half of that today and thats growing as additional wells come online.
We have got about 73 wells coming online for the balance of the year.
And then if youre GPM of the gas is 8 or something like that how much of that is condensate is 10% is a fair assumption? I am not 100% sure on that Christine I had to get back with you but I think thats pretty close it is probably in the 8% to 12% but I dont know exactly that number.
Okay thats fine.
Also the de-ethanizer getting moved up by a quarter.
Did this impact volumes in second quarter at all meaning did anyone have to shut in wells because the gas wouldnt meet pipeline respect with ethane in it? No we havent had any of those issues right now although that continues to be concern a Christine.
The de-ethanizer had no impact in the second quarter actually even if it had been online we wouldnt have had the opportunity to move ethane because of some other downstream issues we are right now working to commission that asset and it should be up during the third quarter.
Okay great.
And then Alan or Don I think you have told in on a prior call that you guys have  your first refusal came into  it came in energy too JV position but what about on the ACMP side you know there are some partners who are backed by private equity in E&amp;P companies who may or may not want to a minority owner in such assets in the longer term and I would think that they would want to monetize at some point with the combined ACMP/WPZ MLP have any first rates there? You know I am not sure what the confidentially terms are for ACMP on that issue.
So wed rather not comment on what their rights are there I would just simply say that we do feel like we are very well positioned to consolidate a lot of those assets in the Utica there I am pretty excited about Blue Racer  what our opportunities to consolidate look like there? Okay great.
And then while I think its consensus opinion that the first part of the deal of ACMP is accretive I think there is some confusion in the market as to whether or not the second part of the deal adds to that accretion or chips away a little from that accretion is there any clarification you can provide? Christine its Don.
Since the merger is currently being negotiated or about to be negotiated between the two partnerships I dont want to go too far on this.
But certainly the way we styled it Williams would take reduced cash flow in the early period and enjoy higher cash flows higher growth beyond so likely mildly dilutive initially and then turning around pretty quickly.
Okay perfect.
Thank you so much.
And well next move to Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Alan in your prepared remarks you talked about market pull of projects and so forth it seems to have come to fruition during the quarter.
I think in your slides you had said that you got about a backlog of 25 billion at WPZ and another 4 billion at Access.
Any sense on how large this backlog could potentially grow in terms of order of magnitude are we talking in the neighborhood of 10% to 20% or are we talking to something significantly higher assuming you are able to commercially negotiate some projects and so forth? Yeah you know I think a couple of thoughts on that.
One we may actually see a lot of opportunities that come to us that require less capital so higher earnings and better return but less capital as we look at opportunities between the two.
So I would just say the opportunities may not be measured in capital and will be measured in earnings growth.
But I will just tell you that the number of opportunities that just keep coming at us along the Transco system and on the northwest pipeline system as the market continues on the demand side to try to figure out how to take advantage of all this low cost gas and continued confidence in low cost gas is pretty impressive that given what a deficit we had in storage this year and we are sitting in sub 4 gas price really tells you the confidence that the demand side has and the supply capabilities the long-term supply capabilities of the gas basins.
But what thats developing is a lot major downstream project And so I would tell you I think a lot of our growth is actually going to come from that and our ability to connect the supplies into those opportunities and of course all of that new gas supply leads in to both natural gas liquids and olefins as well as we produce that gas we got to something with the liquids and find market to those liquid.
So I would tell you rather than the ACMP combination driving a lot of capital increases I would say its slightly going to drive in the northeast it will drive some higher earnings but perhaps I dont know that it will reduce our capital but I would say a lot of it would be just higher earnings in here.
Great a couple of quick follow ups we saw some ramps in volumes in the northeast and you didnt have any change to your 2015 guidance is it fair to say that the way the northeast acted in the second quarter is exactly the way you wanted it to it is running according your plan and you would expect to see a significant acceleration in 3Q and 4Q.
I was wondering if you can sort of walk us through the ramp as to how we go from 1Q and 2Q of this year as to how we end up with kind of the guidance for 2015 in terms of where you expect the big pick up in ramp acceleration to? Thats an excellent question and Ill tell you I am very excited what we are seeing there in the engagement Im going to ask Jim Scheel to provide a little more color on that thank you for asking the question.
Yeah Ill answer that in a couple of phases.
I think we are very excited about the progress we are making in the Susquehanna supply hub or ABA area.
We are right on target and actually probably a little bit ahead of where we wanted to be.
We have a lot of projects coming online during the third and fourth quarters of this year they will be on time-on budget.
Were growing those volumes by about 34% versus prior year as we come out of the year and quarter-over-quarter this year were up 8%.
So obviously weve always wanted to do better up there and smash more gas in to the system but were right on target with where we want to be.
OBM has been a bit of a different story its very consistent with the last analyst day in the last earnings call.
You can actually see on page 20 of the book that weve lowered our average volumes for the year thats primarily due to a number of producers having some challenges at the front end of the year and so we are seeing the way on wells coming online.
But we will actually end the year higher we adjusted the number for the year end at 420 and again as Id mentioned a bit earlier we have a number of wells we have lots of visibility on getting ready to come online.
We have 73 wet Marcellus and in addition to that some dry Utica wells thats not included in that overall number that could actually add to some of the volume but obviously that will be at a bit of a lower rate.
Our biggest issues right now as we look into the third quarter are commissioning the assets that will drive some incremental fee revenue youll see our fee revenues increasing and then just seeing when the producers tie those lines in.
L&amp;M is on target with where we expect for the most part and will end the year about 25% higher than last year as well.
So although there are challenges in the northeast that weve been seeing around OVM on the producer side; the good news is unlike past discussions the assets seem to have the reliability in order to move the gas and well be able to meet our customers needs as we go through the third and fourth quarter with the incremental processing options for them.
Great one last question if I may.
Just if we can turn the Geismar obviously a disappointment that it wasnt able to start up on time so forth.
I was just wondering if you can sort of elaborate a little bit on the safety issues did it come up in the inspection process and sort of prevent a permit from being issued or is this something that youve just decided to do over and above the process in all permits and everything is in place.
I was just wondering if you can give us a little bit of color around the safety measures that are being enhanced? Yeah let me have John Dearborn take that hes been right square in the middle of that.
And thanks for the question very insightful question the way you ask it.
And to take on the first part of your question as to whether it had something to do with the permits.
I would say no not at all it rather to put it into some context for you the overall  and in the overall plant there were more than 750 pressure safety valves throughout that plant and on a regular basis you go through and you study all the pressure scenarios on these various pieces the equipment and how these valves are expected to control over pressure circumstances and prior to the incident and then of course as a result of the incident we were doing over pressure studies and they were being done in a very prioritized way and a very careful way as well.
We have to be very deliberate very disciplined in how we go about doing this work.
And the work it progressed extremely well some of the valves just to give you an idea some of the valves get studied and we said okay the valve is fine and you put the documentation to the file about how the valve has been restudied and no further work was needed.
In the prioritization we left several studied valves towards the end of the study and it until early in July as the study was finishing up the team came to learn of a particular scenario that truly required mitigation.
So as we came to learn of that the team considered several strategies that could have potentially worked in the circumstance and determine that the best solution we could have applied was to install several new PSVs and just so you understand the number of several is really about 12 PSVs are being installed and to replace several sections of piping.
Now it happens that the full impact of this essentially new work on our schedule is not known until earlier this week and frankly its what resulted in this disappointing disclosure today but I just want to reiterate once again that were taking this extra precaution here to enhance the safety of our workers and the public and I hope that provides some adequate colors everyone on the phone about this entire issue that were grappling with as we move forward toward the safe and sustainable restart the plant.
Great that was extremely helpful.
Thank you very much.
And well move next to Brian Lasky with Morgan Stanley.
Hi good morning.
Just kind of following up on Geismar there really quick.
I was just wondering if you guys can discuss a little more at length kind of what the drivers of your range is in terms of for first ethylene production and what could possibly delay this further? Sure glad to bring some color to that.
So lets reflect again about what happened at the time of the incident this plant went down in a very unusual and a hard way right.
We had to take some unusual precautions and go through certain procedures in order to clean it out.
And so certainly there could be some potential risks related to some of the equipment as a result of way it had gone down.
Secondarily I would say theres always a concern that exists around restart of a plant especially when its been extended.
Now as to whether the systems as designed and as reinstalled work take for instance rotating equipments sometimes you have to go in and look at the rotating equipment a second time.
Now thats historically happened to us from time to time it doesnt we dont know anything today that says we should have an unusual worries on the startup so I have nothing that I know of at the moment but with an abundance of caution we thought it was appropriate to guide that that the start-up is not risk free once we are through this next round of installation of pressure safety release valves and thats the entirety of the story behind the contingency range that we put around that start-up.
Got it and Don I was just wondering if you could just update us on your discussions with the insurance companies and your recovery expectations and kind of once we get into this outer period where you be above your business interruption insurance how you are kind of thinking about that and how thats kind of baked into guidance? Lets say that now that the plant is substantially complete from a construction standpoint and were moving very quickly and toward the start-up most the facts are now very well-known and obviously well continue to update our claim as we move through start-up.
Weve retained some expert consultants if you will that are doing studies to support our claim.
We plan to present those studies and conclusions to the insurers in the fall and we would be hopeful that that would then start the next round of settlement discussions.
And in terms of I think you mentioned previously that you expected to use your ATM kind of in 2014 to be largely at the equity markets and 15 at PZ I mean you put out kind of share count applying some meaningful equity issuance in the back half of the year.
I just want to make sure that was kind of still your expectation that you do any incremental equity on the ATM this year and youd be largely out of the markets at PZ next year? Brian that in fact is the case again our car financing plans is pretty well unchanged obviously the drop down of the Williams owned assets is another factor and were looking to do that ideally post merger in the late 14 early 15.
And then finally just I mean I think Cabot mentioned on their call some infrastructure issues that they were having which impacted their production in the quarter.
I was wondering if you guys could just elaborate from your perspective what some of the issues were and kind of how the event resolves going forward? This is Jim Scheel Ill comment on that again I listen to the earnings call too and I want to just reiterate our performance quarter-over-quarter were 8% more than we were previous quarter and first quarters 4% more than the year end.
So weve been continuing to grow volumes obviously we have to do a fantastic job in coordinating volumes into this system.
I think Cabot is probably relating more to the opportunities missed just by some coordination on scheduling gas because actually we were moving more than we have and again as the additional horsepower comes online during the third and fourth quarter this year were going to see a rather rapid ramp up so that we finish the year about 34% more.
So again I appreciate the concerns of the shippers but we continue to put some more gas through that system and are only accelerating that as we end the year.
And just finally from me in terms of any update in terms of timing on the ACMP/WPZ negotiations is there any update from most recent disclosure? Nothing new I would just tell you the complex companies are working hard and have got are very well advised and I think everybody understands the importance of moving ahead with it and with some diligence and thats exactly whats going on right now.
Thank you gentlemen.
And next well move on to Abhi Rajnandan with Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Abhi.
In your data book outlook for WMB you show a revised outlook at the excess cash flow available you went after the dividend step up which is around 28% for year through 2016.
And it sounds like the remaining part of the deal will be may be modestly dilutive upfront and accretive beyond that so I guess how should we think about the current and potentially more excess coverage being brought down overtime once the entire deal is done? Abhi again yes we would expect some of that excess coverage to come off because one of the big considerations that Williams is making here is moving the distributions we received really took the ACMP schedule in terms of those ISR.
So Williams is making Id call a concession there to enable the merger and we think that thats going to drive significant value long-term but certainly with some near term reduction in cash flows.
However by 17 that really turns around we would expect to have a nice increase in accretion if you will cash flow accretion on a per share basis.
I hope that answers your question.
Yeah I know that helps.
And then just a couple of other quick ones at WPZ you have a shortfall this year of about 400 million between the DCF and distribution.
So I guess how should we think about how you make this up is this just with capital raises or do you need any sort of support from WMB any color there would be helpful? We expect that WPZs financing plan is largely intact.
I think at midpoint here we moved the cash flow about $150 million and as well we do have and anticipate the litigation settlement that we would expect would largely offset that in terms of cash so we think not a lot of change there.
Going back to the cash flow your first question I would point out that our 2017 to 2019 cash tax guidance is an assumed rate of 14% and we would expect that to come down somewhat as we continue to add to our capital spending as you can see our capital spending is about $4 billion this year and it declines to 2 billion unchanged by 2016 its because what we have in guidance is really sanctioned projects and we have a lot of projects organic projects that were working on those are added to guidance and those projects are placed in service that will continue to press that cash tax rate down somewhat so just consider that as building your models.
Right now our run rate seems to be about in the $4 billion range and if you take that 25 billion and divide it by the six years you get about $4 billion a year and thats pre-ACMP and they have been spending about $1 billion a year.
So you can think about that as you think about our cash tax rate and while the rate looks to be fairly low remember that thats based on cash distributions received and if you look at it on a percent of pre-tax income which is more conventional youll see the rates quite a bit higher.
Okay got it thats helpful and then just last quick one from me.
On the Canadian projects can you talk a little bit about whats driving the shift back in CapEx and this is at the WMB and Petchem segment level are these delays in locking down customers or just a slower than expected construction schedule any color there would be helpful.
Yeah great question and particularly the PDH project is what I assume youre referring to primarily and the other being the Syncrude and I would just tell you that given the kind of increases that we are seeing in the Petchem space on engineering and construction side and the kind of demand were seeing on labor and we expect to continue to press forward we are working very hard to not get ourselves in a difficult situation relative to schedule and to make sure that we are pushing away from that risk as much as possible in terms of overruns because we do as we look forward we see a lot of pressure on the skilled labor that its going to take the build out this infrastructure and so I would just tell you that we are making sure as we move forward in that we dont get ourselves in a position where were relying upon thinner and thinner resources and lower and lower productivity and so thats the primary cause.
Okay got it thanks very much.
And well move on to Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Just sticking with sort of Petchem and I guess bigger picture do you see being in the petrochemical business as a core competence for you or do you think it is maybe distracting you from some of the maybe bigger midstream activities that you have should we read in6to this PDH maybe delay something around there theres some questions around what constitutes qualifying income I am just wondering if you can just talk about the value chain a bit more? Yeah sure.
We continue to see the petrochem business as not for William not being in the petrochem business for the sake of being in the petchem business frankly but really as a pull through and the market outlook for these NGL supplies and so certainly I would say its a little bit different between Canada and the Geismar facility because in Canada really we pursued that many years ago because mostly thats a processing business were not actually reforming any molecules there thats being done that the upgrades were simply above extracting that through typical cryogenic processing and then fractionating it just like we do in other sectors of our business.
So in Canada I would tell you the competencies if you will are not very different and we have certainly got very strong competitive advantage there.
But in both cases Geismar and as we would move in the PDH we continue to look at that as an outlook for products in a way for us to continue to provide market access for our customers that otherwise isnt showing up.
So I would tell you thats how we think about it and we certainly think about it in terms of being more fee based business.
I think it is a very good question that you raised and certainly given the great number of opportunities that we have in front of us thats always an issue of capital allocation for us.
And as part of the reason that as I just answered before part of the reasons that were making sure we dont get ourselves into a difficult spot there in that piece of business because we do see a lot of pressure in getting that business built out particularly on the PDH facility.
So in the end I would just tell you we continue to look at it as a place for us to expand market for us and for our customers I think its very nice complement to the ethane link that weve had for years and its a good place to provide market for our customers.
And thats kind of the extent of it in terms of how we look at it we dont look it at as being in the petchem business to be a petchem player.
Understood thats very helpful.
If I can just shift back to the Northeast I am just wondering if youre seeing any reaction by the producers to some of the gas price volatility and sort of that the price decline that you have seen recently.
And especially some of the regional basis issues that clearly people are still have in there.
It sounds like the issues have been more sort of physical and tie-in challenges and what not but is there any sort of bigger reaction from producers from the gas we are seeing in the Northeast.
Yeah no and to be fair I would say that given the kind of recent push down in price thats just really just happened here weve had weve doubts with it but its really just push down here over the last month or so I would say its a little bit early to call that frankly but certainly the activities that we saw in the first half of the year are just now coming to fruition and there has been quite a flurry of activity on the drilling side both in the wet Marcellus to the dry Marcellus up in the North East and now starting with some of the dry Utica in the OVM area.
And so in the first half of the year I would tell you that thats been pretty strong.
I think its a little bit early to call with this more recent weakness in natural gas if thats going to slow much of that down.
But so far we certainly havent seen any signs of that.
And I would tell you I think the producers are getting particularly in their OVM area are getting better and better at understanding what theyve got there and are more and more excited about it.
So well see what happens but I think its a little bit early to say we have seen any kind of reaction at this point.
Okay.
And then just last one from me on constitution any update on sort of the regulatory and permitting process there? Not much to add there.
I think we are very pleased with the way the FERC has continued to press forward on that and we are working hard to work with the New York DEC and communicate to them the importance of this infrastructure and the need to deal with the some of the water quality excuse me water crossing permits that the New York DEC has in their hands.
So really kind a remains focused on that issue and I would say weve made progress but we havent solved that problem.
Okay thanks.
Thats it from me.
And next we move onto Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Thanks good morning everybody.
I think Ive just got two questions left and then now on understanding and appreciating your comments around the Canadian PDH facility and labor inflation like.
I think prior we were thinking that maybe this could come to a hit by year end and so just trying to kind of getting a little bit more color on what you were saying earlier.
Is this something that we should just kind a think of now as more just on the back burner more of kind of on hold or is that still progressing? Yeah not at all.
There is tremendous amount of work we have made great progress with the polypropylene take contract if you will that takes a quite a bit of price risk out of it.
And I would just say both parties both us and the party that have the polypropylene take are working diligently to make sure that weve got great confidence in our estimates and the work plan it would take constructed in a low risk manner.
But Ill tell you the work is probably at all-time high in terms of making sure that we are very confident of where we stand with the estimate and we do very much expect to conclude and have it pinned down by the end of the year.
And so in no way you should consider its on the back turn or its just us absolutely making sure we de-risk it is as much as possible before we move forward.
Understood.
Appreciate the clarification.
And then just last question and maybe this is on Geismar with respect to the pressure scenarios that were studied.
Clearly ethylene plants are not like processing plans.
So I guess its not exactly a cookie-cutter approach here and what I am wondering is is that to the extent that this plant has been rebuilt or perhaps studied now maybe with all the different scenarios that are out there from the safety standpoint does this in anyway make Geismar I hesitate to call it best-in-class because of what we have gone through but as we kind of look forward from this point today does that anyway help you distinguish yourself from other plants and then how ultimately does that perhaps help our hinder Geismar 2? Yes Carl good question.
I would say we certainly are coming out of this much stronger than we went into it both from an operational focus and reliability and we have worked hard to really improve the older plant as well as making sure that those learnings were built into the new plant as well.
I would tell you that probably the fact that weve got a team thats been a right in the middle of a major construction project like this thats also looking at Geismar 2.
And so its not some distant memory of the lessons learned its kind of real and available puts us in a very knowledgeable position to push forward with Geismar 2 if thats what we choose to do.
So I would say I am very thankful that weve got a team that is and this has been a really tough project if you think about it if youre managing this major expansion project in the first place in and around a plant and then have the major explosion that isolates us from being able to complete the plant right in the middle of a project thats a project managers worse nightmare.
And yet they have hung with it.
So I would just say weve got a team thats very schooled on what it takes to be successful as we look forward into Geismar 2 and certainly we all have a lot of confidence in pushing forward as we look to Geismar 2 opportunity.
Great appreciate the comments.
Thanks guys.
And next we move onto Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning Sharon.
LLC</strong> John I guess with regards to the dividend illustration you provided.
Those tax rates do you anticipate those cash tax rates to change materially if the ACMP/WPZ transaction occurs? No Sharon we do not.
So we dont expect that to change.
The distributions will change somewhat so there will be some effect.
But we wouldnt expect any material change in those tax rates as a result of that.
I think right now they are driven largely by the placing assets and service.
And we are in the middle of appraisal for both accounting and tax purposes.
So there will be some adjustment of estimates along the way as we conclude both the accounting and tax appraisals to really key in this process.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just trying to gauge the potential for the exchange ratio to be renegotiated.
Maybe if you could provide some color on some of the key factors management considers when you determine the proposed exchange ratio? Sharon we did some extensive modeling and really trying to come to a transaction that we thing was value adding both ACMP and WPZ unit holders for let trying to balance the considerations there.
So obviously a lot goes into it but that really was the design criteria we wanted it to be a transaction that we thought would be beneficial to both partnerships really trying to strike that balance and thats really what we put forth in our proposal.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just the last question.
I guess given the IRSs scrutiny on some of the non-core  activities in PLRs.
At this juncture is there any concern regarding the PLR for Geismar? Not here not at all.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Youre welcome.
And well we move on to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
So back to Geismar 2 prospects.
Any further updates around the markets capacity to provide long-term fixed return contracting versus commodity exposed returns? Don you want to take that.
Yeah.
I am glad to take that.
Thanks very much.
Not much has changed since Analyst Day so just to reiterate where we are there weve got a very warm reception when we put our RFP out to the marketplace and our interest was oversubscribed quite significantly.
What we are doing with this particular investment is were essentially trading off that commodity margin to the buyer of gasoline to our joint venture partner in exchange for a fee for service opportunity for WPZ in total concert with our strategy.
And certainly the markets appetite given recent and current ethylene prices is quite warm to a provider thats willing to provide on a fee per service basis.
So were seeing very very warm reception both on the JV side and on the ethylene purchase side or fee-for-service type arrangements.
Great.
When do you see that is that like a 2015 really 2015 period to try to true up some of those negotiations? Yeah were going to work those negotiations through this year and into the early part of the next year I am sure.
But I think the bigger emphasis here is very much aligned with Alans comments earlier about the PDH unit at the strategic level.
So until were absolutely that weve got the right commercial deals lined up here and until were absolutely certain we know how were going to execute and derisk the capital project on an investment of this magnitude were going to hesitate to rush our way into a sanction if I could call it that.
So we will sanction only when were absolutely ready for both commercial and the project side.
Got it.
And Don if I could return to the insurance recovery question.
If I remember when I asked at the Analyst Day the comment was made that debates about recoveries has less to do with debates about what true commodity price should be versus taking best care in not only being safe but also being appropriately efficient and starting up again.
Could the fact that you are now delaying start-up comfortably beyond the recovery period basically obviate that issue a little bit and make it to easier to achieve recoveries since you are kind of taking some of the dime on your own accord? Craig good question.
Certainly the claim  our claim continues to get somewhat larger because we believe weve worked prudently to bring the plant back into service.
Obviously insurers who have the money in their pockets argue against that but we think we have a very solid claim we think that our outside experts will help us present our claim in a way that is compelling and were optimistic that we will receive a very substantial additional payments perhaps as early as late third and fourth quarter.
Okay.
So you think that much of those could be resolved by the time the plant is actually up and running? No I think more likely its fourth quarter.
Okay.
Yes the plant being up and running in the fourth quarter but with the target of October date it could take a bit longer than that is I guess my comment.
I got you.
And last question kind of a little broad spectrum and big picture.
But weve got a couple of things going on with potentially a competing NGL line from the northeast to Belvieu maybe looking a little better prospect at the moment and also condensate exports looking more realistic than ever before.
There is obviously competitive pressures for new business opportunities from all these types of events across your system I wonder if you all could just comment on any net positives or negatives from these types of events? Well I guess if you are just asking generally about the competitive environment that we see out there I think we continue to see not see much impact from competition frankly we just have so many opportunities coming at us that thats probably why I want to say its the least of our worries its certainly low on the list.
And really if you think about some of the larger risk to the business its more around the macro environment and one thing we do compete for frankly weve become very aware obviously we comment for rigs from one basin to the next.
And so I think having ACMP alongside gives us a little bit better diversification to that in terms of being exposed on big gas basins.
But I would say that really the issue that keeps us focused on getting great market access for our customers and keeps us aligned with them frankly is that we desperately want to see good market access for the basins weve invested in and thats obviously a service we would like to provide as well and providing better market access and better long-term markets for their products and so thats how were continuing to go about that.
But I would say on the competitive front that weve just got our hands so full with the opportunities that are coming to us and were uniquely positioned to win that were not having to stretch very far beyond that.
Great.
I appreciate it.
Thanks.
And our next question we will hear from Chris Sighinolfi with Jefferies.
Hey guys thanks a lot for taking my question.
Don just curious Id see the guidance for WMB effectively DCF but I dont think thats something that you reported along with quarter reports so I am just curious if you could either for the second quarter sort of provide on the same schedule of how you would guide it.
What the DCF or WMB entity was and is that something that on a go forward you are plan to report as part of the financial.
Chris great question.
We have not done that yet but we certainly expect to so you can look for that next quarter.
And any broad framework as to what it might have been for the quarter? I dont have that number off hand and I dont know if John has it but we can get it to you or we could post it on our website.
Okay great.
That would be helpful.
Thanks guys.
Ill just comment here again were going through a transition here with ACMP and that our acquisition of the additional interest will know cause us to consolidated ACMP beginning in the third quarter which will create some differences in reporting.
Obviously weve done reporting on equity basis will be fully consolidated we will be looking to gain significant gain in the third quarter to revalue our initial investment in ACMP we will be looking some substantial and tangible assets and we will have some additional depreciation amortization related to those assets as well.
So just kind of a heads up and look forward to quite a bit different presentation you still get to the same bottom-line here in terms of cash flow but from a balance sheet than earning standpoint there will be some changes in the basis of presentation.
Okay.
Great thanks Don.
Welcome.
And our last question today will come from Bradley Olsen with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for fitting me in I know were running a little bit late so I really only got one question.
Now that youve closed the ACMP general partner acquisition can you comment on any ongoing efforts to retain key personnel from Access and kind of broadly speaking how successful those efforts have been? Sure.
Thats certainly something we very much value that organization and their capabilities and that was high on our list of things to accomplish.
And so we did move swiftly and aggressively to do so and I think were with comfortable with where were right now on that front.
And so what a great work by our teams here at Williams and the team at Access to really address where any of those issues might be and take care of them swiftly.
So Id say we feel very good about where we stand today and I am you know particularly proud of both the organization coming together and work that so quickly.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Okay great.
So broadly speaking I guess its fair to say that in the Utica and the northeast where Access is maybe most their capital is being deployed that he team is kind of largely in fact for a post acquisition? That is correct.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Great thanks guys.
And will conclude todays question and answer session I would like to turn the call back to Alan Armstrong for any additional or closing remarks.
Great thank you.
Thank you for all the great questions.
As you can see we are very excited about the future we have got in front of us and this team as you know I think just continues to generate momentum towards this vision that we have of really being de-premier player in this natural gas super cycle and very excited about the opportunities that keep coming at us and we keep executing on to accomplish that and we look forward to reporting to you in the third quarter with great continued progress and certainly at the balance of the year.
Thanks for joining us today.
And that will conclude todays call.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Williams Partners and Access Midstream's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir Thank you Tina.
Good morning and thank you for your interest in Williams Williams Partners and Access Midstream Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on each of these three company's websites.
These items include yesterday's press releases and related investor materials including the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to you momentarily.
Our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to questions and we also have the four leaders of Williams operating areas with us.
Jim Scheel leads our Northeast area Allison Bridges leads our west area Rory Miller leads our Atlantic Gulf area and John Dearborn leads NGL &amp; Petchem services.
We also have Mike Stice Dave Shields and Bob Ferguson joining us from Access Midstream Partners.
In our presentation materials you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that weve have reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I will turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Good morning and thank you John.
Thanks everybodyfor joining us today.
As usual we have got a lot going on as we continue to pursue this tremendous growth that our strategy continues to deliver.
Were coming off a quarter here that was in-line with our expectations but much lower at WPZ due to Geismar's extended outage and a continued heavy capital investing period all as was expected.
But certainly were looking forward to a much better quarter coming here in the fourth quarter as some of our major projects start to come online and we see some dramatic improvements in volumes in the Northeast.
A major change is afoot as we combine both WPZ and Access into the large scale natural gas infrastructure MLP.
And the team here at WPZ is very energized right now as were on the verge of a major $1 billion boost in our annual cash flows that we expect to come from three major projects Geismar Gulfstar and the Keathley Canyon Connector all of which have reached the commissioning stage here in the fourth quarter.
We also are very excited to see volumes and profits beginning to rapidly escalate in the northeast operating area as many projects have been commissioned here in October and provide a little more detail on that later.
The Access team continues its great performance as we have all come to appreciate this team's ability to steadily grow its volumes and cash flows as it connects gas supplies in some of the most prolific basins in the U.S.
And we also are continuing to see major potential Transco projects coming our way as a result of Transco's competitive advantages.
These new prospective projects include the Appalachian Connector and the Diamond East projects both are major new projects that connect the burgeoning supplies from the Marcellus and Utica directly to growing demand on Transco that is anxious to see the supplies coming their way as those markets strive to grow as well.
And of course we continue to have a long stream of projects that are under construction that will keep this well identified fee based cash flows continuing to grow throughout our guidance period and beyond.
The major changes that will be occurring within the new merged partnership are exciting in many ways.
First we will have the highest forecast distribution growth rate of any of the major MLPs.
Second our coverage will be above average for the same peer group with expected $1.1 billion of excess cash flow coverage through 2017 and the Access cash flows along with our major new fee based projects continue to dramatically reduce exposure to commodity prices.
The Access LP holders are about to see a 50% step up in distributions to $3.65 in 2015 versus the forecasted $2.42 per LP in 2014.
So truly a very exciting time here as we merge these MLPs and really turn this into the MLP in the major integrated group and particularly one that is well-positioned as we have talked about before with its strategy that is so focused on natural gas.
So there are many changes occurring as these major tailwinds form and this first big tranche of capital finally begins to bear fruit in a very game changing manner against the traditional WPZ assets.
But what has not changed is our commitment to a strategy that we strongly believe will be the most enduring growth model amongst the infrastructure MLPs.
We have worked in a very disciplined manner to have this strategy of connecting the very best natural gas supplies to the very best natural gas markets at the center of all of our portfolio and capital allocation decisions.
So we continue to stick with the strategy that we are very proud of and we think has positioned us for great long-term growth.
The strong and undeniable fundamentals of low-cost clean energy and the cheapest petrochemical feed-stocks in the world will prevail we believe and were seeing the demand pool beginning.
We have continued to position ourselves in a way that will catch this very sustainable and fundamentally supported wave of volume growth and at the same time help our customer base achieve their lofty goals of growth as well.
We appreciate all the support and patience from our investor base as weve had some bumps and bruises along the way getting to this as we have pursued this very ambitious plan.
And were thrilled that many of you are well-positioned to catch this next big wave of valuation growth at both WMB and at the partnership level.
So now let me quickly point out a few things in the prepared slide deck here beginning on page 2.
You can see here just an overview of what we will hit on today most of which I have touched on already so let's move on to slide 3.
On slide 3 as Ive mentioned in the opening WPZ's DCF was low but was in-line with our expectations.
Major drivers of the lower DCF was a missed opportunity on Geismar of over $200 million.
So that's the number if we would have been up and running that we predict here in the third quarter and higher maintenance capital as expected and was forecasted for the quarter.
So this is really the time of year that a lot of our maintenance capital gets done.
As you know we had lower than expected maintenance capital for the first half of the year and we started to catch up with that as we usually do during the third quarter.
Also we had some outages in Canada particularly from some Suncor outages and we also had a planned turnaround at our Redwater facility where we made a lot of the significant tie-ins for our CNRL Horizon project which lowered volumes there in our Canadian assets as well.
Also we had slightly lower than last year adjusted segment profit plus DD&amp;A was just off of last year.
This was driven by lower NGL margins and this was really driven as the result of a loss of the keep-whole processing contract up at our Opal facility.
And thankfully though this was largely offset by about $36 million in higher fee based revenues in the quarter on our consolidated assets and operated assets.
And at the same -- we got the same kind of very positive move in our equity investments in both Discovery and Laurel Mountain Midstream.
You should really continue to expect a lot of great things coming from these equity investments across the board really here in the fourth quarter; Blue Racer Midstream is continuing to see great Utica volume growth.
Our Discovery system gets the Keathley Canyon Connector started up and the Laurel Mountain Midstream benefits from our increased ownership which has now moved up to 69% versus 51% in the third quarter.
Also as you can see on this slide ACMP's adjusted DCF was up by an impressive 42% driven by 20% higher fee based revenues and so this all combined for WMB these Partnership holdings now produced a segment profit plus DD&amp;A of $838 million which was 36% higher than the third quarter of 2013.
So really starting to see some great distributions out of PZ as always and now an increasing amount coming from Access.
Moving on to slide 4 you can see some of the operational highlights here for ACMP and starting with a big milestone of 6 Bcf a day of gross gathering volumes which the team hit in September and also ACMP's 49% interest ownership in UEO continues to increase in importance.
And this really well-placed infrastructure thats referred to as UEO is serving the rich Utica volumes and the volumes continue to expand rapidly up there and now two new trains planned.
One planned to start up later this year and one planned to start up at the end of next year.
And also great work by our Access teams getting the Bucking Horse plant started up in Niobrara.
Thats planned for later this year and I'm really proud to see the way our Williams and Access teams are working together.
As you know weve very substantial processing operations at Williams in Wyoming and then very thankful to see our teams working so well together to help bring up the Bucking Horse plant up there to serve the Niobrara.
So overall net volumes on ACMP are up 9% and as you can see where the high performers are in this list that drove that growth with of course the Utica being the star of that.
Moving on to slide 5 looking forward a little more now and we expect to see the fruits of Williams' major capital projects really starting to kick in here in the fourth quarter of 2014 and in a very powerful way in 2015.
In fact these three projects alone are expected to produce nearly $1 billion in 2015 cash flows and to put this in perspective these three projects should drive a 33% improvement over WPZ's expected segment profit plus DD&amp;A for 2014 and during 2015.
So huge driver coming from these three big projects and we will also have an even larger impact on DCF because a lot of the financing of course the financing costs have been carried for a large portion of 2014 on these projects as these have been very long dated capital projects.
And these assets have had really very little -- they have had very little planned maintenance capital for 2015.
So a huge driver of DCF in 2015 as well.
We also have several other recent milestones and achievements listed.
All of these would normally be big deals but we have so many developments it really is getting hard to give them all their due bandwidth but just to provide some details on a few of these items.
The Geismar rebuild and expansion project is complete and we have begun to bring hydrocarbons into the plant this week and start-up operations including the final dry-outs of the primary systems.
And then once those dry-outs are completed the actual cracking processes will be initiated later.
I certainly want to just take a moment and thank our team there at Geismar for their intense focus on doing this project safely.
It has been a very large and complex project and they have remained very focused on no matter how much the pressure is to remain safe and keep that first and foremost and I'm thankful for both their leadership and management there at Geismar for keeping that front and center.
On Gulfstar we are complete with our work and Hess is now running the spar.
They announced yesterday that they plan to have first oil within the week and this project team also achieved first quartile safety performance on that project.
Tremendous effort to bring so many different skill sets and capabilities together to get that project delivered and we are very thankful to be getting to work with Hess and Chevron on delivery of this major asset as well.
And then the Keathley Canyon connector has been fully hydro-tested and is now in the dewatering mode.
Anadarko will control the timing of this first production which they and we still expect later this quarter.
Our Constitution project reached a major milestone last week and this was the receipt of the final environmental impact statement for this project from the FERC and this gives the Commission the green light to approve the project as designed and we are pushing for a November order from the Commission.
And of course they certainly understand how important it is to get this project up and moving so that we can reduce some of the bottlenecks and constraints of getting gas supplies up into the New England states for the winter of 2015 and 2016.
Our Transco team has just continued to knock it out of the park in the areas of business development and we had two very successful open seasons in the period and we continue to string together both important base hits which we just continue to have a number of laterals and expansions off the systems and the occasional grand slam like the Atlantic Connector project that is significantly larger than even the massive Atlantic Sunrise project.
And I will hit on that a little bit more in a minute.
On slide 6 you can see the continuing list of projects that we continue to click off on the left.
And on the right potential projects are being added so quickly it is really getting hard to keep this slide up to date.
You will note that we had to move the Rockaway lateral into the first quarter of 2015 due to some construction environment difficulties that we face there.
However even more offsetting this we expect to place portions of the Leidy Southeast and the Virginia Southside project into service earlier than planned.
So great job there of the team continuing to be innovative in ways to bring some of those projects on earlier where the environment allows us to do so.
We also expect to be able to move our Canadian PDH project into the firm category later this month.
We will still have a few contingencies related to third parties on that but we will have our feed study completed for PDH-1 and we will be going for final Board approval here in November.
So great progress being made on moving those projects along as well.
On slide 7 were going to provide some detail now here on the really exciting Appalachian Connector projectand were not disclosing the actual capital on this project at this point but we do expect this to be at least 50% larger than our Atlantic Sunrise project so very large scale project.
It involves a major greenfield line that you can see coming out of the panhandle of West Virginia the northern panhandle of West Virginia down into a connection there in Virginia and then a major expansion along the system to be able to move those supplies into the various markets both to the north and to the south.
Actually all the way to station 65 which is zone 3 on Transco and of course from station 65 youve access to both growing industrial markets as well as access to many of the expanding LNG facilities in the area.
So really that is coming together.
And that really helps us be the supplier for the LNG projects that are being developed along the coast as well on Transco.
So the support from these shippers has really been tremendous as this is one of the few projects that delivers gas to the actual markets.
And so this really gives an ability to a producer or supplier to really go get the highest price because they have so many options of where they can sell their gas and they can really go to the highest bidder for their gas by having so many multiple market options along the Transco system.
Really this is a tremendous value proposition to have all these -- the direct access to all these growing markets on Transco not just existing but really growing markets and we also are excited to see the confidence that the producers behind our Ohio Valley Midstream system.
And our investment in Blue Racer the great confidence we are seeing from producers there in growing their volumes out on the system as well.
And so that connection that we like to really stress about being able to connect the very best supplies to the very best market outlets this is just another great example of that.
Of course you saw that with Atlantic Sunrise coming out of the Susquehanna County area and now were able to basically do that in the same way coming out of the southwestern Pennsylvania West Virginia and southeastern Ohio areas.
So our gathering business really benefits from this because it would have the best market outlets out of the area.
And of course our market end customers get access to these great prolific upstream supplies.
So really a win-win-win and really shows the strength of our strategy.
Moving on to slide 8 here really exciting drivers for getting the merged MLP into the very very strong and offensive posture and getting our 2015 adjusted EBITDA of approximately $5 billion.
As I mentioned earlier a 50% move-up in the distribution for ACMP unit holders from the 2014 guidance and a 30% increase over the 2015 distribution guidance.
So we will have the best-in-class distribution growth at 10% to 12% through 2017 and with a very strong coverage ratio at or above 1.1 and about $1.1 billion of excess cash flow through 2017 that we expect to generate off of this strong business growth.
We also will enjoy strong investment grade credit ratings and very limited equity needs up against this current business plan because our cash flows continue to grow continue to expand our debt capacity very rapidly.
So really excited about how we have got this merged MLP positioned.
It is strong from a strategy standpoint.
It is very strong from a capability standpoint and now financially extremely well-positioned for the environment that we are in.
Just to talk very quickly about a few of the synergies that we are seeing.
One of the things we are really excited about is really looking for the very best capabilities exist between the two companies.
One of the areas that we are really seizing on very quickly is Access' well-honed modular compression design.
And so were looking at that to be a major savings for Williams here as we look to see the cost and the scale frankly that we gain by having all of the compression installation that both parties do and being able to really be the low-cost provider of getting in that the field in a very quick way that serves our customers.
So great capabilities there by Access that Williams is very rapidly adopting.
Likewise up at the Bucking Horse plant as I mentioned earlier Williams of course has great strength in the operations of processing facilities and were very rapidly bringing those alongside Access and helping them get that plant up in a safe and reliable manner and then one other area that I think is really impressive for us is the Access North Victory system that lies just to the north and east of our OVM system is going to be the beneficiary of -- provided that the transaction goes through of Southwestern Energy's acquisition of Marcellus acreage in that area.
And we think that bodes very well in terms of having a new buyer in the area that is very excited about that acreage and who has got the capital to bring to that.
And of course that system ties into our OVM system and ultimately then would have access into the great Appalachian Connector project.
So great example of how we are stringing together the synergies of our assets up there.
Moving on to slide 9 this is really impressive picture of valuation here at the new merged MLP.
And so what you have here is regression analysis between the distribution growth rate and so we have got the merged MLP here marked at 11% and then on the Y axis you see the current yield.
And of course this shows that on a regression analysis basis that the merged MLP should ultimately trade out at a sub 4% yield even at that yield on this line you would see a $94 unit price for the merged MLP.
And frankly we think given the coverage ratio which is just above the average for this group the strong credit rating that we have and the tremendous strategy and clear line of growth.
We think we actually ought to be trading below this line on the regression analysis.
So really excited to see this valuation coming through and we think the market is waiting to see some of these things like Geismar and Gulfstar get done and those start to cash flow and so we think we are just on the verge of realizing this kind of value at our MLP.
Moving on to slide 10 a tremendous opportunity with Williams we just couldn't be better positioned right now very excited to have delivered a 32% raise in our WMB dividend and following that with a 15% dividend growth rate through 2017.
So tremendous value that were able to deliver for our shareholders and I don't think anybody doubts the amount of growth that we have out in front of us.
And I do think obviously there has been concerns over our ability to execute and bring some of these major projects on-line and were just on the verge of passing that stage.
And then we continue to have a number of very large scale projects going forward.
Also very excited to see the very strong capabilities of Access and Williams coming together from a leadership perspective and from an operating capability standpoint very solid alignment I would tell you between the values of both of these companies.
And I want to take a moment and thank Mike Stice for his tremendous leadership at building such a great organization with great values.
And were just very thrilled to be able to working up alongside Access and taking some of the best ideas that they have to offer and bringing those in to Williams and as well excited to have the new team there at Access all pulling on the same rope.
So with that we will turn it over to questions.
Thank you.
Good to see the progress that you have made with respect to coming to an end and putting forward the Geismar project and in closing up the merger.
I was wondering if we can sort of transition on some questions more on a go forward basis with the merged ACMP/WPZ combination youve sort of mentioned in the past a high percentage coming from revenue.
When you think about the 2015 guidance can you share with us some of the sensitivities around NGLs and that margin you have baked in -- in terms of the low and the high-end of guidance in terms of how we should be thinking about the commodity environment? The combined MLP will be more than 80% fee based since all of the Access business is in fact fee based and much of it under cost to service or MVCs.
There is really no direct commodity exposure there.
So I think you can look solely at the Williams -- and if you look in our data back on slide 85 you can see the sensitivity of the price changes on commodities.
Again I think were fairly diversified on the commodity front.
It will represent less than 20% in 2015 and that percentage will likely continue to decrease as we grow the fee based business much more rapidly than the commodity side of the business.
And as a follow-up I recognize the fact that you're expecting about a beds of cash flow coming in with some of the new projects slated to come on-line late this year.
How do you think of your leverage funding for the next several years as you sort of think about the big capital projects and so forth? The expectation to fund it kind of on a 50:50 basis? Just wondering if you could give us a little color and how you think of your current leverage.
We would expect the merged partnership to maintain its kind of mid-BBB investment.
Somewhere around four times debt to EBITDA on an adjusted basis so I think that will be the guide post.
We think the business plan that we put forth with the $5 billion of EBITDA and the 10% to 12% growth rate through our guidance period that ends in 2017 can be financed with a very modest amount of equity.
Obviously weve many more opportunities in front of us.
Alan highlighted a couple of major ones.
I would point out that those are fairly long lead time items so something like the pipelines that Alan mentioned would kind of service dates the financing for those is really out principally in 2017 and 2018.
Finally on the Constitution Pipeline if I saw correctly you have requested to get the final sign-off within the next 30 days or so.
If it takes longer than 30 days does that delay the project due to weather issues and so forth? And also I was wondering if you can comment about whether you think the length of pipeline will deviate much from the current plan.
Well the timeline right now as it sits is very tight.
Were hoping to get the FERC certificate on for Constitution Pipeline in November.
If that happens then we will be looking for notice of completion from the New York in December [ph] -- along that same timeline.
It is a very tight schedule but if we get the kind of responses that we are hoping for and we think are possible then we can still make the heating season of 2015-2016.
We do have some major delays.
If we have mullet tie month delays then that heating season won't be possible.
So there is a chance that we could get pushed beyond that but we are trying to be very clear with everyone involved I think the need for the gas is definitely there.
We saw that with the polar vortex last heating season.
And I think were just trying to get the message out to let people know what's at stake.
It is going to take some cooperation but we think we've got a good shot at it.
Regarding the Southwestern purchase of Chesapeake with Southwestern it is going to 11 rigs compared to Chesapeake's one.
I know it's early days and the deal is not even done yet and we don't know where the rigs are going to go but can you give us an idea of how much undedicated acreage is -- that subpoena for grabs overlaps your footprint? Then you kind of mentioned this in your prepared remarks but given ACMP at one point was Chesapeake's MLP are there opportunities for you guys to process the gas that ACMP has the dedication for on the gathering side or is that already committed to other players? Can you just give some more color on your synergies there? Sure Christine.
We can provide you the detail you're looking for there today.
I would just tell you that there is a very substantial amount of gas that is available for processing from Chesapeake and potentially now Southwestern.
So I would just tell you there is a lot of acreage there that needs processing some gathering and processing services and I would just say that we are very well positioned for both of those 0.
Okay with the recent correction in the mark we saw a number of deals get announced and obviously Access to capital markets is pretty key in this space.
And just add a brief (indiscernible) that maybe non-investment grade MLPs might have trouble raising capital and if we see some more of these big companies spinning out with mull till billion dollar backlogs with drop-downs.
I would think some of these private equity players hoping to monetize their investment maybe the IPO might have trouble competing with something like that.
Has sentiment of potential sellers changed from where you sit? Can you kind of give us an idea of what youre seeing on the M&amp;A front? I would say that it has varied.
Obviously some of the smart money I would call it decided to take some risk off the table of that early and get out while the getting was good and I would say that sentiment is probably becoming more pronounced.
I agree with the concern you raise and I do think that we will see some movement in that direction because I don't think anybody wants to be left being the guy that was too greedy waiting for any more increase.
I think people appreciate the market is pretty hot and so I do think we will continue to see a lot of assets coming out of the private equity sector into the market.
And I think they will start to appreciate how much quality IPO there is that has some pretty major advantages over less substantial offerings.
Okay and then I guess kind of piggybacking off your response to that I think you guys are now sitting on an option to enter into the Permian.
Deal size isn't too big multiple looks attractive although you probably have to spend a couple hundred million to get there.
Youve the parent of a potential partner behind this system.
However youve previously said that you would like to be number one or number two in a basin.
Are there any initial thoughts you can provide us and is this an area that you would be interested in growing into? Were not going to respond on exactly our position on that.
Were just not at liberty right now to discuss that.
However I would say that we have been looking at the Permian from a business development standpoint particularly the Delaware basin for quite some time.
From a Williams side we've had a lot of producing customers that are customers elsewhere that have been interested in us providing services in the area where there is not much infrastructure and certainly were not interested in going into areas that are already well served but I would tell you there is a lot of that basin that is not well servedand weve been looking at it that and I would say we would like to enter it in a way that.
One it is well supported from a financial perspective and two that ultimately we get to a scale position that has competitive advantages and provided that we can accomplish both of those tasks then yes we would be interested in entering the basin.
But those are two pretty lofty goals in terms of making sure that the cash flows are well supported and that weve a clear line of sight on gaining scale and competitive advantage the way we usually enjoy in a basin.
Okay last question for me appreciate all the color.
One of the competing pipes for your Appalachian Connector project you know recently announced it was moving forward at least to station 165.
Is there room for both projects? Or do you think yours is different and off because it provides a clear route to station 65? And then when you also say it's 50% more than Atlantic sunrise you mean 50% of what the CapEx is for the 100% interest or just your interest? On a gross basis it's 50% more as well.
So you can use either number because we said more than but even more than a gross amount.
In terms of the advantages of that project I think it is almost two different projects frankly because I will tell you the strength of the Appalachian Connector project is that it does not just get you to station 65 it allows you to go directly to those LBC interconnects directly to the town borders directly to those markets.
And so rather than sitting at a pooling point and being stuck with gas that you have already paid a rate to get there.
You don't really have any options but to sell it at that point you can go to multiple marks and you can go cut deals with people who want to have growing supplies on their system.
So I would just tell that you is the distinction.
It is very major distinction and as to whether there is room for both I would just say that I think our shippers are speaking for themselves -- can't really speak for the other project but I would just say given the way the response we have gotten from the shippers that are interested in our project that would tell me there is room for two I guess if the other project has economic support as well.
Is the shippers for you guys mostly producers? It's a mix pretty substantial mix just like we have seen in our other big projects like this.
Couple quick questions in the northeast segment EBITDA was actually down sequentially in the third quarter.
I believe there were some one-offs included in the results but could you help us think about some of the factors preventing maybe a quicker ramp-up in the profits in the segment and how we should think about that trajectory looking ahead from 4Q and then into next year? As we look at the third quarter this year let's take a step back and talk a little bit about volumes.
During the last earnings call we talked about the number of wells coming on line.
We actually had eight wells delayed during the third quarter coming into the OVM system.
That was obviously a disappointing issue for us some producer issues.
But we see those coming on-line pretty quickly and we have won a site to 35 more wells coming on line over the course of this quarter two of which are dry Utica wells.
So as we look at our exit rate for the year for OVM we are very excited about the opportunity to continue to see a very robust fourth quarter.
That would be combined with some additional fee based revenue coming from all of the new assets that have come on-line.
Obviously I have been disappointed by and the delay in bringing on the stabilization facilities as well as CXP 1 but we've had a lot of assets coming on-line and just getting that all put together has been a pretty big issue keeping that as safe and as efficient as possible has been our high priority.
So those are coming on line as we speak.
We've got commissioning activities coming on today that will also improve earnings coming into the fourth quarter.
We've also seen pretty much the completion of a major expansion around the Susquehanna supply hub so volumes there have increased since the close of the third quarter by about 200 million a day and we are excited about the continued increase there.
So we've got a great trajectory for future growth.
Then when you combine that one of the things you wanted to reconcile to was the third quarter.
As we think about that we had some kind of -- I won't call them extraordinary but we had some income from Cayman associated with the fire and then one of the other changes that we have to be aware is with Laurel Mountain Midstream we have a percentage of gas.
Gas prices have been down for the third quarter and so we've seen a hit from that as well.
So if we really look at earnings growth going forward taking out those two things we still see a nice improvement as we look forward to the fourth quarter and into 2015.
Shifting gears to Geismar could you give us some color on the ramp-up there over the next couple of months? When do you guys expect to kind of get up to commercial levels of production and then when could we potentially see operating rates up in the 90s like the rest of the industry? From where we stand today as you saw in our announcement we've announced that construction is complete and were fully into the commissioning and start-up activities.
These activities are largely focused on getting the plant dried out and oxygen freed and leak tested and rotating our major equipment in the plant in preparation for the startup.
Sitting here today I would say November 15th plus or minus a few days is where we should be for making first ethylene as is signaled by our announcement.
Then as we look forward beyond that we are expecting a ramp-up first I would say what was the base plant rates in order to make certain that we get the entire machine lined out and make certain that we've got a good stable operating system at that point of operation and then shortly after that ramping it on up to the expanded capacity.
The overall timeframe for getting that done from the day we start making first ethylene is going to be notionally around a month.
It is going to be about four weeks but again were going to want to do this in a very disciplined way.
We've brought some unbelievable operational discipline to the plant there in Geismar and the team is going about this startup in a very deliberate way and a very deliberate disciplined way.
But I think that brings all the color you need to give a sense of how we are going to bring the plant back into operation.
Last one from me coming back to the merger between the MLPs.
So based on the previous iteration of the terms I think you guys have put out figures expecting about a 1.2 times dividend coverage for MB in 2015 and 2016.
And then on the revised terms I think cash available after dividends comes in slightly lower.
So could you just give us some color on how to think about the maybe new Access coverage over the next couple of years and any other puts and takes there? In terms of the 1.2 times we boosted the initial distribution I think before we said at least 349 we decided to go with 365 so quite a higher initial distribution there that reduced the coverage a bit but the coverage is still well north of 1.1 times.
And in terms of the transaction we shifted coverage from Williams to the merged partnership.
We thought that was the right thing to do to create the kind of valuation and the partnership to make it the lead entity to move Williams to a pure play GP HoldCo.
So we shifted the coverage to WPZ again over that three year period took the coverage down at Williams but nonetheless we still have over $300 million of cash coverage just in 2015 and 2016 really with no real need for that capital.
It is nice to have and I'm sure we will find a value adding use for it but nonetheless rather than run 1.2 times coverage at Williams without a clear need for the excess coverage or having double coverage in fact with the partnership having coverage and Williams having coverage we didn't see that adding value.
So really shifted coverage to be very substantial at the partnership with again the industry leading growth rate for large cap MLPs and taking the coverage down at Williams to a level that we think is appropriate.
I would like to focus on the macro and maybe follow on some of the questions that Christine had about the pipe project out of the Northeast.
Obviously you guys are in a pretty unique position having multiple large scale projects currently out in the mark for producers in the northeast and when you look at all of the different markets that Transco searches do you have a feel -- is there a specific market where either producers feel that they don't have enough access to or the consumers in that market don't feel as though they have enough access to northeast production growth? Just trying to get a feel for as you fill the pipe with all this gas where is it actually going to head and where is there economically the most pull for that gas? I would just tell you that the amount of new gas-fired power generation obviously in the southeast is a major issue as that area converts off of coal if you follow some of the commentary from folks like Southern Company.
I think one of their big concerns has been whether there would be adequate infrastructure built out in time and reliable infrastructure to serve their power generation loads.
And so I think this project helps answer some of that frankly.
As well were continuing to see obviously a lot it of folks wanting to get to spots where they can deliver to LNG contracts and by getting all the way to station 65 with this gas that option becomes available as well.
And then of course we also have like the large methanol project that Transco has contracted to serve just south of station 65 as well.
And as well all of the southeast from just a general load standpoint continues to grow and so we see that continuing in those regions as well.
So many projects like the Dalton Lateral for instance are projects that need supply.
And demonstrate the growing markets the (indiscernible) expansion to serve Sabal Trail.
I will just tell you Transco is winding up being the big high-pressure header that's right in the middle of all the market growth and people realize that and they want to be there not just to serve any one particular market but to have the options of going to where that market growth is.
And so it is really a network value if you will where you have all the best supplies in the country trying to get in to places where the best marks are and that mutually attracts each other to being connected to that big header.
Even further south of 65 I know you guys have talked about potentially working with Pemex on the deep water projects that they're starting to pursue but is there an opportunity maybe for Transco even in south Texas where you have some existing infrastructure to participate in any of the tenders that either Pemex or CFE have out to import Eagle Ford and other gas supplies into northern Mexico? We have a relatively unique project.
I would tell you that we have been working on and were not positioned to describe that just yet but we are pretty excited about it.
And we think it's a very low-risk way of serving that growth in the market and were continuing on a nice trajectory to develop that project.
But yes we do have opportunities and yes were pursuing those.
And if we could flip to the ethane side of things we've recently seen received (indiscernible) for their world-scale cracker and I think that rounds out six or seven crackers which are set to proceed.
Interestingly we've seen ethane exports come out of is nowhere and gain quite a bit of steam as well.
In light of these recent announcements how does your view of ethane as feedstock change? I guess more directly does potential tightening in the ethane market later this decade cause to you rethink what you might use for a feedstock on a second Geismar project or does it give you pause about a second Geismar world-scale cracker in general? I would just say that we think there's a lot of ethane available with these growing gas supplies.
However what's not getting invested in actually right now is the infrastructure to be able to recover all that ethane and get it into all these points of consumption and obviously that's a business that we like and one that we continue to have an eye towards in terms of how we play a critical role in distributing -- recovering and distributing all of that ethane.
So I think it's a very good questionand it's at a time like this when the market seems to be awash in ethane people are unwilling to invest in the infrastructure that it takes to get it recovered and into those markets but we believe that just like what we are seeing on the gas side now where the demand is on the verge of really starting to grow pretty rapidly.
We think the same thing will happen on the ethane side but it is going to take quite a bit of infrastructure and we are certainly working hard to plan that.
Were in the process of commissioning our Bayou Ethane project which extends ethane from Mont Belvieu over into Lake Charles area in Louisiana and ultimately connects into our system that gets ethane all the way over to the river and so that's just an example of how we are positioning ourselves to be a solution to the problem that you describe which is going to eventually catch up with us.
And you mention the ethane pollution.
Are there opportunities as we see the ethylene market potentially growing 30% or 40% with all these new crackers and Brownfield projects? Do you see opportunities on the Olefin transportation and storage side as well as on the ethane transportation and store? Absolutely we do in that we continue to promote our projects on the Gulf Coast around the transport of both propylene which today will be made from new sources like propane de hydro units what is now Flynn Hills and down [ph] to new markets as well as some additional propylene splitters that will put new supplies on to that system.
So that's one pipeline system that we are promoting.
And then the second is what we call our project which is an ethylene pipeline which is intended to connect some of the major players on the ethylene side in order to bring some of the really more about reliability there.
But as well give the opportunity to get ethylene into the hub where ethylene will be able to be traded well in that hub in order to be able to do some good price discovery of ethylene which is a service that Williams brought to the market in the last couple of years.
Some clean-up stuff here the Canadian PDH sounds like you're close to FID there.
Any sort of zip code on the capital involved there? Can you confirm that will be 100% fee based and then the kind of return you would be looking for? You know until we take that to the board Ted and we've got an outside party involved in there as the customer and so I think until we get all that wrapped up were are not -- don't really want to be announcing any of those details just yet.
But as you know we've continued to try to work that project in a way that it reduces our commodity exposure in that space is and we think we've found a nice way and a nice partner to accomplish that with.
Okay.
I wonder if you can just talk a little bit looking out west here the implications of buying the 50% interest in Ruby.
Do you think that helps at all your Pacific Connector project or should we really just look to sort of Jordan Coke [ph] going to FID? Well I just think it non straits their confidence in the project and certainly they're the ones that have the very best seat at the table there.
We certainly have worked alongside them and have our own internal perspective but I would say anybody that's putting their money where their mouth is something you ought to pay attention to and they certainly have stepped up and done that.
And then last one from me is just as you look at the deep water any thoughts? We have seen some of the majors continue with the activity out there of another Gulfstar more like the Keathley Canyon project.
How is the outlook there? The timeline on making deep water infrastructure investments and I guess development of deepwater prospects is pretty long usually it's a four to six-year cycle to get that started.
So current price is not really too instructive about those decisions.
There is a lot of what I would call pent up discoveries in the mill if you will.
A lot of discoveries have been made and they're slow going to sanctioning right now and that's predominantly I think because producers are waiting on that 20-K technology to be made available.
I think the target is maybe sometime in the 2019 2020 timeframe that the technology and the equipment will be ready.
That's slowing things down a little bit more than the price of oil but we do think were going to have an opportunity in the next 12 to 24 months to deploy another Gulfstar and as those project get broken loose we think we will be well-positioned.
We haven't lost any interest in that.
It's kind of 10 and the flow of the deepwater but most producers are looking out I think six years or so in terms of what the price is going to be at that time.
Picking up on Ted's question about Geismar 2 have you all given any more thought with Geismar 1 ramping up over the next couple of months possibly neutralizing the commodity risk there over the next year or two? Craig we continue to look at that and obviously what were trading off there is the high margin and the benefit we get from that versus the stability of fee based structure and as well I would tell you we really would like to do a transaction that pulls all the way through our infrastructure.
In other words takes advantage of the ethane supplies and death that I know length that weve our upstream business and pulls that all the way to our own infrastructure.
And so that would be our preference on how we would do that and provided we could make enough margin in the fee based side to help offset a large portion of that commodity margin.
We would do that and so I would just tell you we are always weighing that balance internally but it is a hard margin especially given how strong the fundamentals are right now.
It is a hard margin to give up but we do continue to look at that and I would say it would probably come in the way of a fairly large structured transaction for us to get that because it would as I have mentioned would it involve trying to get the value chain all the way back through our access.
Sounds like that's not anything imminent maybe more like 2016 or beyond? It might come with contracting on Geismar 2 perhaps -- and perhaps a portion of that so it could come ahead of that.
And picking up on Christine's questioning with the MLP set to finalize the merger in just the next couple of months have you had any formal discussions with customers about amending ACMP's cost of service arrangements to dove tail with WPZ's infrastructure in kind of a win-win manner? I would just say -- to answer your question directly is no but I would say that we see a lot of opportunity.
We've had some very encouraging meetings with the Chesapeake team and really honestly pretty impressed frankly by the attitude that Doug Lawler is bringing to that and kind of a high trust relationship that were used to working in and one that we can really drive win-win solutions for each other in.
And so while we don't have anything specific there I would tell you I see a lot of opportunity between our companies to continue to expand our relationship in a way that's beneficial for both parties.
And there has been some kind of strange trading between WPZ and ACMP since is you announced your finalized merger agreement.
Can you discuss anything that would logically push this past the fourth quarter distribution record date so that PZ would get the higher February payment versus the combined one? It's just a typical SEC process so we will file the S-4 within the next couple of weeks then it's just a question of how quickly we get through the SEC.
It could move very quickly or it could be a bit longer.
So that's really the wild card.
It's just really the SEC process for the S-4.
As we indicated in our documents Williams has sufficient votes to ensure that the vote is in favor of the merger and in fact we have already committed to vote in favor of the merger.
So there is no doubt as to the outcome.
So it is really just the SEC's S-4 clearance process.
Last question I think you have $275 million of outstanding unpaid insurance claims.
Can you kind of give some more color about what the primary questioning is around this and to the degree you don't recover what you had anticipated? Does the MLP just kind of chock that up to history or does MB help out in any way? Craig were vigorously pursuing the claim and we think weve a very strong claim.
Obviously the insurers would like to pay less so there's some level of debate.
I don't think we want to go into the details but certainly were actively engaged in the process.
We and our insurers have now agreed to non-binding mediation in an effort to resolve differences and were going to begin that later in the month of November.
As to what happens if WPZ falls short it will just be a shortfall in the collection.
It will be kind of a onetime item that I think and that's the way we look at it really no other action that would be related to that.
But again were vigorously pursuing the claimand we will begin the mediation process in late November.
Just maybe two quick areas of cleanup Alan if I first go back to Appalachian Connector I'm just sort of curious with some of the competition that youre seeing there do you see any potential for either this project to move into -- or to have partners in the structure and similarly do you expect any erosion or change perhaps in the economics from what you saw in Atlantic Sunrise as far as return on capital? I would answer the second one first.
I think very similar kind of the targets of course a larger portion of this project is Greenfield in terms of the capital amount so we had a less leverage if you will off the existing system.
So potentially depending on the ultimate size potentially could be a little bit lower than what we enjoyed on Atlantic Sunrise just because that was pretty extraordinary but still very attractive returns on the project.
Secondly I would say that the -- as to the partnership and arrangements there we think we've got a good project going ahead and while there may be some partners that bring some strategic value to it that we would entertain right now.
We would tell you we have a project that we think stands pretty well on its own at this point.
I had just one quick follow-up on that and I guess I ask this in the sense that all large infrastructure seems to be taking longer than expected to kind of get done these days.
And so I'm just curious when you all work backwards from a potential late 2018 (indiscernible) when do you feel like you need to basically have shippers locked up I mean as far as whether youre getting to the present agreements or following it with a binding open season? When do you kind of have to have that in hand do you think? I would just tell you were in the stage of negotiating those agreements and making great progress on that and obviously the quicker we get them done the less risk weve on the timing.
But I would tell you we've got a very sober viewpoint out there these days on what it takes to get these projects built and we've got that built into our perspective.
But having said that we can't spend six months getting the agreements negotiated so I would say it's more -- a couple months to get this done within our expectations.
Again I think the appetite that were seeing I think that's very doable at this point.
And then last quick question just maybe turning to Canada and this is really more on the base off gas and the processing and I think you actually mentioned some of the coker outages at Suncor and it looked like there was maybe been maintenance at Redwater I think you said (indiscernible).
I guess maybe my question is that do youve a sense of what the missed opportunity cost was in the quarter from those outages from the lower equity NGLs? I think you mentioned Geismar for instance being $200 million.
I didn't know if you had a similar analog for the Canadian side.
If I could just make a few comments though about how things are going up in Canada.
First of all we have invested mightily over the last year in reliability up in Canada so were poised to take as much gas as our partner is ready to deliver to us at that facility.
In fact we've made some improvement projects that perhaps might allow it to be higher than our earlier expectations.
Secondly in terms of operational discipline in this last turnaround we actually got through this turnaround slightly less time than we originally planned.
We accomplished a 100% of the tie-ins that we wanted to accomplish during the turnaround and came in slightly under budget.
So now that the answer to your question is probably about $20 million in missed opportunity in Canada this quarter.
Against what would be operations at full capacity receiving all the gas that we could from our partner.
Just following up on your previous comments have you tried to quantify some of the commercial opportunities you expect to realize and what type of upside that represents to maybe 2015 guidance for the merged MLP? The only thing that we've put out there Sharon obviously is that the merged MLP of $50 million savings and I would tell you we think that's very achievable at this point.
And we really haven't though put a number to the commercial side and I would tell you some of it will be pretty hard to characterize.
For instance if were able to pick up volumes and develop a project like Atlantic Connector based on some of those synergies that's a longer term value proposition but nevertheless valuable.
And so we haven't really put any kind of numbers to the commercial side of that yet and as I said it's such a fluid situation in terms of customer responses and so forth that's going to be pretty hard for us to quantify.
But were certainly excited what were seeing and Jim Scheel and John Seldenrust John runs that area for ACMP are working closely together to capture a lot of those and I think both of them are pretty impressed with the amount of opportunities that were seeing.
And just one last one from me for the drop down of the remaining Canadian assets is there a specific reason why the drop would occur to WPZ versus the merged entity in 2015? Sharon this could go either way it's our expectation.
We'll likely drop it to WPZ.
It will likely happen just prior to the merger but it could happen concurrent with the merger but it's something that we've got some flexibility on but it's likely going to be first of the year.
Quick one from me so I think it was two weeks ago or so Sunday night a report hits Bloomberg Williams amongst bidders for a competitors Rockies gathering processing system.
Obviously not expecting you guys to comment on that transaction what I'm interested in is what's your appetite for acquisitions at this point? What are you guys kind of seeing? And then specifically how do you balance that with kind of working through what you already have on your plate and then follow-up on that is how do you guys look at your securities as currency in this environment? I would just tell you Timm as we've said all along were always interested in acquisitions that are write-down or ally in terms of being strategic and in areas that further strengthen our hand but were not interested in just doing (indiscernible) acquisitions that aren't additive to our strategy.
And so I would just say were going to be very selective but given the large footprint that we have there is a number of project that would add a lot of synergies.
I would even suggest something like QEP.
Not surprising to me that somebody assumed we would be the buyer because I would tell you we would be a pretty good buyer for those assets just given the synergies that weve in the area.
And so we will certainly be keeping our eyes open as to the equity value.
I would tell you obviously we've demonstrated we think were really undervalued substantially right now but we think that will correct itself in the not too distant future.
So were going to be pretty stingy with our equity obviously when it's valued like it is right now but we do have our eyes open and we do have other financing means given the strong step-up in cash flows that we've got coming our way.
Just want to follow-up on some of Carl's questions on Canada.
John curious if you talked about or Alan talked about the Redwater outage Suncor downtime you gave some color on the impacts of the quarter.
Just wondering where we stand right now? Are there any outages of that nature we ought to be thinking about on a go forward that would be sort of profiling over the next 4 or 5 quarters and then as you sort of assessed the operations up there given some of these disruptions do you still feel comfortable about the segment profit target that you had previously given for next year? I think it was kind of 170 to 210 range? You've asked a lot in that question so let's take it piece by piece.
Looking forward into next year in the fourth quarter late third quarter  fourth quarter obviously we've got to finish up the tie-ins for the horizon project which will be coming on-line.
So we can expect there will be some outage during that time.
We try and minimize the impact of these outages by continuing -- we keep our wells as dry as possible ahead of the outages so that we keep the gas or the liquids flowing out of the LEP unit up at Fort McMurray for as long as practical.
We minimize the impact.
So that's I think where were there.
And then to the second point as to how do we increase and perhaps I would ask the question a little differently how do we increase the reliability of the gas flow.
Were spending an enormous amount of effort and time in collaboration with Suncor to help both solve some of their problems which they have some real problems that need to be solved at their plant as well as to obviously assist them in getting more gas to our plant.
Until we have multiple sources of gas getting to our plants multiple sources of liquids I think we are always going to be beholden to the reliability of our single supplier there.
So I guess -- I don't want to give the excuse it's out of our control because we want to work with Suncor in maximizing our opportunities at this stage but until we have the multiple sources I think were going to have the risk of the single source of supply in front of us.
I think sticking with Canada for a moment but shifting to Don wondering about the pending drop-down of the projects up there given I guess the fact that they're in-progress opportunities largely.
Wondering if you could sort of help us think about the potential multiple we might expect there.
Obviously nothing specific but we've seen in-progress opportunities be dropped at book value some companies talk about sort of flywheel effects that are generated from those in-progress opportunities and sort of expand them.
So I'm just wondering your thinking now the Board's thinking about the Canadian opportunities in light of some of the challenges we've seen up there as of late.
Chris what were thinking is that the aggregate portfolio of assets both the project we mentioned as well as a variety of other prospective projects would include includes the Syncrude prospect the Canadian PDH Geismar 2 and the Gulf Coast pipelines they're all held by Williams NGL &amp; Petchem Services it would be dropped together and we would drop those at about invested capital so book value if you will and that was part of our I will say negotiations as part of our merger.
One more question from me real quickly.
You've had some questions obviously in this call and I think Timm hit on it with acquisitions and what not but Alan just curious how do you think about the IG rating the surplus cash your projecting over the next couple of years? It does appear you have retained a lot of financial flexibility if the execution matches the plan.
You know you're slides indicated youve stated on the call.
You dont think youre being paid for the distribution and growth that you're projecting right now.
So I'm just wondering given that are you likely to accelerate any of those growth projections or is there -- if more head room comes available or would you rather sort of add coverage keep optionality on the table as you think about potential acquisitions that might come additional project that might come any color on that would be helpful in regarding your priorities.
I would just say that we do think were not being valued for the growth at either the MLP or at the parent level right now and frankly I think that's to be understood given the outage at Geismar and some of the risks around that and some of these major projects that were bringing on-line.
And so I think now as those issues are cured I think we could see a pretty big step-up on that.
So I would just tell you were pretty energized about how our strategy is playing out.
We think there is a lot of acquisition opportunities that would be dead in-line with our strategy and continuing to strengthen that.
And certainly with the major footprint that we have now with the combination of Access and WPZ there is just more opportunities out in front of us that we are the right buyer for.
So I would tell you I think were in a pretty offensive posture but I would say two things tamp that a little bit.
One of course is that we do need to see our equities valued properly and two when you've got such a tremendous growth in your cash flows built into your model and you're running accretion analysis Youve got a big step to climb there to be accretive against such a terrific growth pattern that we already have.
So it's great problem to have when your base business is growing so strong to look at these acquisitions.
But at the end of the day were very focused on our vision of being the player in this natural gas space on the infrastructure side and were going to stay committed to that vision but do it in a financially prudent manner.
Just one small question follow-up here at the end I was just wondering if you look back towards the end of the data back and you have segment profit guidance reported to adjusted on slide 103 just looking at the 2015 guidance it seems like there is an item in the northeast GMP of $136 million.
And I apologize if I missed it but could you just provide some color on what the item is? Yes that was an item that we had in the fourth quarter of 2014 that we discussed on our second quarter call that has now been moved into 2015.
We haven't given specific details around that but it was an item that we were expecting to come through our GAAP earnings and felt like it should be adjusted out.
It's contingent type item.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Well as you can see this growth is right on the verge of here at WPZ.
ACMP continues to perform extremely well and the combination of these two great organizations is something to be very excited about.
However as we think about all of this growth I think one thing I want to recognize to our investor base here is the tremendous amount of toil and effort that goes on by these teams that are bringing these big projects in.
It is not an easy job these days to work these projects and do it in a safe manner and there is all kinds of hurdles that are constantly facing these big projects and these teams have stayed with it and done their work in a safe and reliable manner and I just want to say a big thanks because of all these great rewards that were able to offer back to our shareholders are really coming through the efforts of our great operating teams and our project management teams.
So I want to recognize the great effort that's going on there.
So with that thank you all very much for joining.
Appreciate as always the great questions and were really looking forward to really seeing this major powerhouse really starting to take off.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams Partners LP Year-End Earnings 2014 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tanisha.
Good morning and thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website www.williams.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases and related investor materials including the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to you momentarily.
Our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to questions and we also have the five leaders of Williams operating areas with us.
Walter Bennett leads the West; John Dearborn leads NGL &amp; Petchem services; Rory Miller leads our Atlantic Gulf; Bob Purgason leads Access Midstream and Jim Scheel leads Northeast Gathering &amp; Processing.
In our presentation materials you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that weve reconciled to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
With that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great thank you very much John and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us here for our Q4 and full year 2014 earnings call today.
To begin with I'd like to welcome a couple of new members of our leadership team and they are joining us today as John just mentioned by phone.
First is Bob Purgason who became Senior Vice President of our Access operating area in January and just to remind you Bob has been COO at Access since 2010 and before that he was here at Williams for about 19 years until 2006.
So the organization here at Williams is very excited to have Bob back and really looking forward to a lot of the leadership he is brining.
Additionally Walter Bennett is here with us and Walter previously led the Western operations for Access and in January he began leading Williams' Western operations post Allison Bridges' retirement.
And of course that includes our Northwest pipeline area and all of our big gathering and processing out in the Rockies as well as we've added to that now the Niobrara area in Wyoming that ACMP had this built and our team the Williams team had collaborated to help bring that business up as well.
So we're really excited to have Walter's very strong operating background and strong technical expertise brought to our team out there in the west.
Additionally I would just tell you there are a lot of great leaders that have come in from ACMP and they really are contributing a lot to our organization and help us lead through this tremendous growth period that we've got going on here at Williams.
So really nice to see the teams come in together so nicely and so quickly.
Moving on here to slide 2 and you'll see a lot of the major topics listed here on this slide that will hit on this short presentation but this is the place I'd like to spend a little more time discussing the drivers of our new guidance and really the significant derisking that has occurred as we have dramatically lowered our planned commodity margins.
We've lowered our fee-based volume assumptions and we've got more conservative on our Geismar ramp-up schedule.
So here first on the commodity price deck our new price deck is centered on a $55 WTI and $3 Henry Hub gas price and we've tried to be conservative with the price decks that are largely below the forward curves for products like propane and natural gasoline where we're along the commodity and below the forward curve where we are short like our natural gas and ethane.
We believe this is certainly one of the most conservative decks being used amongst our peers in the industry and overall this resulted in a 44% reduction in our planned commodity margins and commodity positions at WPZ and this now represent only about -- this commodity price only about 12% of our gross margin is now exposed directly to the commodities.
On the gathering volume side we've assumed reduced activity on the assets with unprotected volume exposure.
So in those areas we're directly exposed to volumes and in many case we're ahead of what the producers have publicly communicated to investors.
In other words we're trying to get ahead of the lowering of rig counts and making sure that we've got a good handle on what we expect and in many cases where that hasnt been publicly tried to get ahead of that with our own estimations.
And fortunately though I would tell you these impacts are only limited to a handful of our assets and in the context of the new larger enterprise the impacts we think are certainly manageable.
So for example our Northeast volumes are currently tracking ahead of our revised plan for 2015.
On the Geismar ramp schedule we have incorporated a much lower utilization of the facility over the first three months of the year and this is going to allow for safe controlled ramp-up to full production.
Weve spent a considerable amount of time doing it safely and ensuring a very high quality asset and we certainly don't want to try to make any shortcuts here at the last minute on that.
So very proud of the team there continuing to be very focused on safe and making sure when we do get up to full capacity that we've got a safe and durable asset there.
A couple of offsets to the impacts of these more conservative assumptions do exist in our plan.
First of all the early in service for Transco projects on the mainline portion of the Leidy Southeast expansion and the Virginia Southside expansion and I'll hit on more of this in just a little bit so I won't spend any time there.
And then finally on the next on the cost cuts we do have some offset to some of the negative variances as weve stepped up our focus on really rightsizing our cost structure to match the reduced levels of activities in few of the regions.
And so while we've not specifically called out that number I would emphasize that this can and will be a moving target depending on the ultimate levels of activity and the production around our assets.
But we certainly see an opportunity to offset some slower growth and take advantage of the lower energy prices and materials in our own business because we certainly are exposed to energy and materials in our own business and a lot of those prices have come down.
So in general we're taking advantage of this low commodity market to position ourselves for a very strong consistent performance.
And with many of the potential upsides that have been taken out of our guidance now we still see a lot of those upsides out there but we pulled a lot of that out of our guidance and so as those occur they will result in upsides to our guidance.
But despite the significant derisking WPZ still has one of the highest distribution growths amongst our peers and this is driven now by approximately $4.5 billion of adjusted EBITDA in 2015 which is further driven by fee-based revenues which make up about 88% of our gross margin.
And then we expect our EBITDA to continue to grow to about $6 billion on the backs of over $9 billion of fee based projects as we look forward to 2017.
Moving on to slide 3 we can see here the key drivers of the fourth quarter and the comparisons to the fourth quarter of '13 along some of the mixed results that generated headwinds for us in the fourth quarter.
So this was certainly another very busy quarter for us as we undertook the commissioning of three very large assets.
These assets are now ramping up to our expectations here in the first quarter and will be big contributors to our growth for the balance of 2015 and beyond.
So first now to hit on the WMB highlight WMB received $515 million of distributions up from WPZ and ACMP and this was a 16% increase up $70 million.
The higher distribution was supported by 30% increase in the fourth quarter adjusted segment profit in DD&amp;A which was up $216 million to now $944 million there in the fourth quarter.
So this large increase was certainly driven by the additional ACMP interest that we acquired in the third quarter of '14 and as well the associated consolidation of those interests.
WPZ had mixed results for the quarter.
We had some real positives and some real challenges as well.
Ongoing mature businesses continued to perform as expected; however we did have some delays and higher expenses in bringing on Geismar and along with lower commodity prices caused the quarter to come in lower than we had planned.
So now looking into each segment the Atlantic-Gulf strong underlying performance in Transco in the Western Gulf but this was offset by some producer startups on the Keathley Canyon and Gulfstar facilities.
These projects are now online and ramping up nicely here in the first quarter and really pleased to be serving our customers out there both the Anadarko's Lucius facility and the Hess' operated Tubular Bells facility up there.
On the NGL &amp; Petchem side Geismar being offline versus an expected mid fourth quarter startup plus some LCM inventory adjustments that marks most of the products that we have for linepack and operating inventories back to a much lower market and so this is nothing new in terms of how we account for our inventories but the sever downward move in NGLs caused a much larger than normal swing in this inventory valuation.
We also saw some high expenses for the quarter associated with commissioning and repairs through our Geismar facility.
In the Northeast we continue to ride the wave of strong growth in the Marcellus volumes with a 26% increase on a quarter-to-quarter basis and 28% increase in a full-year '13 to '14 comparison.
However we did not hit our expected numbers in OVM due to a delay in bringing on some of the major well pads that producers were bringing on right at the end of the year but we do continue and enjoy tremendous growth in this area and our current production levels in the Northeast segment as I mentioned earlier are ahead of a more conservative plan now for 2015.
Southwest the West really performed largely in line with what we've expected with the exception of the commodity prices which certainly clipped our NGL margins in the area.
And this area has really held up fairly well despite of lack of drilling and as always our Northwest pipeline asset remained quite steady and in 2015 our plan has less than 15% of the company's gross margin in the west coming from commodity exposed contract.
So in the past as you know the west has always been an area of big commodity exposure to us and to some of our big processing facilities out there and because of the continued growth in our fee based business as well as the large decline in NGL margins now only have about a percent of that gross margin actually a little less than that out West.
So lot less volatility as we go into 2015 at West.
So overall a noisy quarter for WTZ given several one-time and discrete events but our underlying fundamentals are very strong they give us complements in our 2015 plan and certainly now on the ACMP side ACMP produced another very impressive quarter.
Fee based revenues were up 48% to $593 million and this was driven by a lot of new capital investments that delivered record gross gathering volumes of 6.5 Bcf a day so tremendous accomplishment by the ACMP team there in the fourth quarter as well.
Moving on to slide 4 talk about some of the milestones and the recent accomplishments here that certainly give us a lot of confidence in our plan going forward.
First of all as I mentioned Gulfstar won the typical startup issues I would tell you for the producers bringing on a lot of new big wells on to that platform but it is looking like some ultimate upside to our original expected flow rates from the facility and so we're really pleased to see the way that's going and very excited about that investment.
On the Transco side another winner and another big increase in peak volumes on the nation's largest and fastest growing pipeline.
With this year's peak a day here in January beating last year's record by 8% despite a very very cold winter in January 2014.
So really just a lot of continued growth is driving that on the Transco system and that team continues to do a great job keeping up with all that growth.
ACMP as I mentioned also hit another record volumes and this really a major contributor to this was the gathering volumes in the Utica and those fed into the 49% UEO processing JV there in Eastern Ohio and the latest train to come on line was the new Leesville plant.
So continued great exposure there to the growth in the Utica and really excited to see the way those volumes continue to perform.
More recently the big addition to our discovery partnership the Keathley Canyon connector received first production from Anadarko at their Lucius platform and now as we move into March we expect to begin receiving much larger gas volumes from Hadrian field and so again another huge accomplishment brining on that major facility out in over 7000 feet of water.
Our Geismar restart has certainly been long awaited and we're excited to be where we are on that finally and it is we are in the process of getting that lined out and we expect to continue to ramp up here in the end of February and our plan does really expect consistent full rate production until the very end of march and so we've derisked that as well and we currently are working to improve the ultimate efficiency of several of the heat exchanger systems before we can reach back for full production.
But all the systems in the base plant have been activated and we've been able to fund that up to about 70% of load there on the base plant.
So we're very confident and where we are today on that it's really just a matter of getting those exchangers being able to operate up to their peak efficiencies.
Our combined access and Williams operating teams came together on the new Bucking Horse plant in Wyoming right during the dead of winter and so while we dont expect this plant to generate a significant amount of cash flow here in the near future it was very important for our teams to get this plant online for the benefit of our new largest customer Chesapeake and it also demonstrated the clear benefits of integration between both Access and Williams personnel into one new organization out there.
So hats off to that team that worked through the pretty touch winter up there to get that plant started up.
Many of our recent expansions have involved along with other facilities modifications to the Transco mainline and so this allows us to facilitate moving gas from the Marcellus and the Utica from the North to the South.
And so with two kind of projects in common here on this was first Virginia Southside which started up in December '14 the mainline portion did not yet the lateral but the mainline portion started up much earlier than expected and that full facility of the lateral will come on in the third quarter of 2015.
And then the same story on Leidy Southeast which in March of this year will bring on the mainline portion of the Leidy Southeast project and that also beats our expectations for that project as well.
And together these projects will yield $50 million to $75 million of incremental operating profit in 2015.
These are all fully contract and that's been approved by the FERC.
So we are ready to put these into service and of course bringing on all this incremental operating profit wasnt expected originally in those investments really gives a very nice boost to our original expected returns for those projects.
And then finally our Rockaway Beach lateral is expected to start up in either late March or early April and the team has been working hard to hold the schedule despite as a lot of you all know a very wet and cold weather there in the New York area.
But really excited to finally bring that project to closure and being able to serve our big customer of their national grid.
Moving on to slide 5 this slide really just provides a real quick snapshot of the different types of cash flow that make up our $6 billion of gross margin.
And just to make a few points here first it shows that now only 3% of WPZ's risk remains tied to the NGL margin commodities and the spread on NGLs and only 9% is tied to our olefins margin in both our Geismar and Canadian facilities.
So meaning 88% of our cash flows are now from fee based revenues here in 2015 and including nearly two-thirds of those that are under contract that have demand payments cost of service with minimum volume commitment.
So as we can see on the next slide our future growth is even less dependent on commodities as we move to slide 6 here and this really shows that 99% of our $9.3 billion of growth capital that's in guidance are tied to fee based projects.
So this slide really gets to the heart of our lower risk and growth strategy for the next few years.
And as you can see the vast majority of this is tied to even the fee based projects the vast majority is tied to the kind of business that are either on our gas pipeline system or in the ACMP area where we have a lot of protection from volume risk.
And so lot of confidence and certainty from our perspective about how we go forward.
So while certainly commodity prices are and remain important to our business specifically here for the near term cash flows and coverage they really are not the driver of our growth.
Our business strategy is built around natural gas volume growth and the demand for associated large scale infrastructure that are going to be required to build out as the natural gas and natural gas products markets continue to build on the back of a very low priced commodity.
And as a result we're confident in our ability to deliver one of the highest rates of distribution growth amongst our large cap peers despite the lower expected commodity prices that are not built into our plan.
Moving on to slide on to slide 7 this slide just drills down into the known projects over this longer period.
And so I'm not going to go through each of these facilities but one of things that I think we have not spoken very much about but is pretty impressive is the amount of exposure that we have to the LNG export facilities and in fact the Transco has connections that allow it to receive or deliver gas.
But nearly every LNG import/export facility in the Gulf Coast and the eastern seaboard other than the Everett facility in Boston.
Those LNG facilities include Cheniere's Sabine Pass Exxon's Golden Pass trunk lines like trialed [ph] Sempra's Cameron LNG the Elba Island LNG and the Toe Point LNG [ph].
And as you know we've talked in the past about our access to our Gulf Trace Project being a 1.2 Bcf a day commitment to Cheniere's Sabine Pass facility that's fully contracted and will start up in early 2017.
But we also recently concluded an open season in December of '14 for the Gulf market expansion and this is designed to provide an additional 1.4 Bcf a day of firm transportation from station 65 going back to the West to points on the mainline in Louisiana and Texas and great progress there and we're in the process of negotiating the firm commitments from our shippers and that came out of the open season and it is anticipated that this could possible 1.4 Bcf a day of capacity could be in service as early as late 2018 so just continued tremendous growth on the Transco system both on the market side and supply side.
Moving to slide 8 here for the conclusion certainly we're very pleased to have the PZ/ACMP merger closed and remain more excited than ever really we continue to see tremendous benefits from the combined strength of this new MLP and we think it is the MLP to be exposed to amongst the large caps if you like the prospects of overall market growth of both natural gas and natural gas derivatives because clearly our strategy is very tightly focused on this opportunity.
As we look to the PZ distribution growth all of the issues I've gone through the day really drive to this and the revised outlook for PZ and WMB result in a new guidance of 7% to 11% annual distribution growth at WPZ through the '17 period with the midpoint of 9% and this really reflects the strength and the quality of our underlying assets with a growing coverage ratio of greater than 1.05 once we get through this first quarter and '15 ramp up period.
So not only do we think we have good growth there but we are continuing to build coverage through period and so we're really excited that despite these much lower and a very relevant to our peers at very conservative price that we continue to be even at the lower growth rate at the low end commodity prices we're still at the high end of our large cap MLP peers.
And so even though this is slightly below the plan that we articulated at the time of the ACMP and WPZ merger these level of growth in cash and coverage are indicative of the best-in-class large cap MLP.
As we look at the WMB dividend growth we have also slightly slowed down our targeted levels of growth for WMB and this of course is driven by the lower price environment that we've forecast with a range now of 10% to 15% growth largely to match the underlying growth of cash flows coming up from the MLP.
So just to highlight the stability of this business plan even under the low price commodity case we can grow WPZ at the 7% we talked about and continue to move over 1.0 coverage there at the low price and at WMB at 10% with additional layers of coverage index of 1.0 at WMB as well.
So we really like our position now with the distribution and coverage and we certainly like the underlying fundamentals that underpin that.
So overall we're very confident in this business plan.
We think it's realistic.
We think it allows us to continue to provide tremendous total shareholder return whichever commodity price environment develops as we go forward and in fact across all scenarios we have the best-in-class growth at WPZ and a top-tier growth at WMB with growieng levels of coverage across both entities.
So this continually building list of investment opportunities are very tightly aligned with our strategy.
They give us great confidence in our future and continue to give us a very high quality long lived cash flows that we think are some of the highest quality in the industry and this is coming from our continually very competitively advantaged assets.
And so with that I thank you for joining us and we'll turn it over for questions that you might have.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
I'll start maybe with the growth projects and I'm just curious in the current market as you look to Canada one of the things we were looking at was the PDH facility I didnt know if you'll be at the weaker Canadian dollar and perhaps some of the activity coming out of that area might be tempering down the investment costs and perhaps you know keeping that potential growth project still in advanced stages as well as in third quarter you guys were certainly opening up the possibility of Appalachian Connector I didnt know if we could get an update on that as well? Yes sure.
First on PDH you are correct Carl the fundamentals are actually improving there as we are seeing some the signs of lower-cost coming in for equipment and vendors as we go out and are in the process of really tightening up our estimates on that.
And additionally that project is really built around the benefits of the logistics of taking low-cost propane right there in Canada and converting it eventually into polypropylene by our partner and being able to serve markets.
So we're basically just cutting down on a lot of rail logistics and those things continue to improve.
Propane prices continue to be a huge spread to Mont Belvieu propane prices up there and we think that's going to continue for some time because there's not really any logistical answers coming out that will improve that any time soon.
And so we really like how that continues to unfold as well.
And really just a matter at this point of getting contracts finalized with our downstream partner there that pulls a lot of that risk off of our shoulders from a commodity spread standpoint but we really do like the fundamentals and they are certainly improving for that project.
On the Appalachian Connector project we are certainly still excited.
We think the strengths of our market pool and the demand of our market they are along the mainline is a real positive for us.
There has as you know there's been some turnover in some of the properties upstream and certainly with the lower gas prices people are looking for creative solutions out of that area and so we're certainly working with a lot of those customers both on the market side and the upstream side to try to bring those two together in a way that they can firmly support our project.
And so we're feeling pretty good about that but it is -- certainly everybody is kind of anybody in the energy industry right now is reeling a little bit in trying to get their forward-looking perspectives tend down before they make any major commitments and so obviously that's where we stand on that today.
Do you get a sense and that's kind of where I was going to do you get a sense that even as these continue to percolate they've both been pushed back to the back half of the year if they do come together or how would you think about timing? Well I would say on the PDH project it really is just we're going to be very very careful.
That's a big investment for us.
We want to make absolutely certain that we've been that we know exactly what our numbers we get as many bids and estimates solid estimates that are well engineered in the door so the PDH project is more just of us moving along at a pace that is focused on making sure we can execute on the project effectively rather than being in a rush on it.
And so that one is more driven by our own efforts and getting the contracts finalized than it is anything in the broader macro industry at this point.
On the Appalachian Connector piece I think that answers have got to come a little quicker on that and so I think we'll be pressing in the next quarter to decide one way or the other on where we go with that but in any way shape or form I think we're going to position ourselves to benefit both our assets in the area both our wholly-owned and some of our equity investments in making sure that we get good market attachment to those assets and as well making sure that we get the investments that are due to us for the downstream mainline expansions for that gas as well.
So pretty excited about it but we're not going to push a rope on that.
We've got plenty of great investment opportunities and we're not going to step up and take risk on that.
Yeah I appreciate that.
One final one just for Don just very quickly I appreciate the WPZ equity as far as obviously retaining investment grade.
Don do you have any planned equity issuances in '16 and '17 at PZ in the kind of base case budget? Good morning Carl.
The PZ equity issuances in '16 '17 at this point is de minimus.
So it gives us capacity to really take on some additional opportunities since we see exciting opportunities develop.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ted Durbin with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thanks.
First one for me is just on the balance of distribution growth dividend growth coverage keeping PZ flat here it looks like in 2015 I guess how are you thinking about the right level there especially given that you have a much higher mix of fee based cash flow? Ted this is Don I'll just note that we felt we want to go in with a fairly conservative plan here in light of what happened in the marketplace.
So rather than continue to boost the dividend or distribution during the year we set forth a plan that we'd hold it steady.
And obviously if we see things develop to the upside we could change that but we felt that we'd set a plan here that was more conservative and one that hopefully investors will agree that is conservative as well.
Okay great.
Next one from me is just on Geismar can you maybe quantify a little bit more closely how many pounds of ethylene are you actually planning to sell in 2015 or some sense of utilization rate you're looking for as we ramp up through the year/ Well as I said really you can call it about anyway you want to but we are expecting very little here in the first quarter and then we would be at our typical run rates on Geismar for the balance of the year.
And so that would be up against the expanded capacity and somewhere around 98% to 98.5% of that expanded capacity.
Got it very helpful thanks.
And then last one for me it looks like you're no longer giving guidance by segment here.
I guess I'm just wondering if you can give us any sense of versus the old guidance that you used to have of the different WPZ segments how much plus or minus are we against those or will we start to get some more color there in terms of how the actual operating areas are performing? Ted this is Don I'm sorry again given as much changes we have here we took a little different approach this quarter.
I would say that as we approach our Analyst Day we'll look at providing some additional information about I'll note for you that we did take volumes down fairly substantially up in the Northeast at OVM as well as Marcellus but some volume reduction from our prior growth expectations that is in the West.
So hopefully that helps.
That's helpful.
I'll leave it at that.
Thank you.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Abhi Rajendran with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on the dividend illustration and outlook over the next couple years obviously on the cash tax rate line you're not paying anything for the next couple years.
I think previously you talked about that kind of eventually rising up to maybe the high single digit low double-digit sort of percentage how should we think about that kind of looking beyond 2017 and then what that might mean for maybe long-term growth covers et cetera.
Yeah Abhi this is Don again.
You know we had a couple of things change here since our third quarter guidance on this matter and cash tax rates are down substantially.
A couple of key points there one was the bonus depreciation which again lowered our cash tax rates nicely and then as well the fact that income was lower also it kind of extended in the chart the period of time although which some of these deductions will be realized.
So I think you can see there the cash tax rate is about zero through 2017 and in our footnote on that schedule you can see that we've disclosed '18 and '19 we estimated about 4% currently and obviously things will move around a bit but as we continue to add projects or potentially even M&amp;A that will have the tendency to push the cash tax rate down in '18 and '19 as well as perhaps periods beyond that.
So again some good news on the cash tax front.
Hey got it and since you mentioned M&amp;A what are your thoughts on the M&amp;A environment and possibilities? Are you continuing to look or are things sort of put on the back burner a little bit you know you guys deferred the drop of the NGL Petchem projects from WMB until bit later down the line.
How are you thinking about that whole dynamic? Yeah sure this is Alan.
Thanks for the question.
You know I would just say we have a lot of acquisition opportunities that are where we have a preferential position to acquire and those are right down our alley and our knowledge base.
So we wouldn't be taking a lot of risk where we are already know the area know the asset know the investments and so I would say those are probably first on the list for our capacity in that space.
And but you know we're going to be pretty prudent frankly and we like where we're positioned right now and think that as the cash flows really start to come through and people really see the strength of these investment opportunities we think we're going to be very well positioned to take on some of those transactions.
So I would say that's first but I think one thing you can we've certainly been consistent on as we stuck with our strategy very tightly on the acquisition front and have stuck to things that are very consistent with our strategy and so you should think about that as we go forward the same thing.
Got it thanks very much for the color.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Tonet with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I know things have been changing really quick here but I was wondering if you might be able to expand a bit more upon conversations you are having with your producer customers as far as their drilling activities in 2015 and if there's any way we can think about quantifying the risk of throughput through the legacy WPZ G&amp;P assets that's a low end of guidance and that certain volume assumptions are different than the high-end or any help there will be great? Well just to kind of put that in context for you from where we were in the previous guidance period we pulled well over $100 million out on that from those fee-based volumes and so we have dramatically reduced that and I would tell you the areas that are hardest hit and we think are going to be hardest hit and I would tell you we've been more conservative than some of the input we've had from some of our producers in many areas but the areas that have been hardest hit were areas that were enjoying a big lift from liquids.
And I think the gas market overall particularly the demand side probably doesn't appreciate all the nice benefit of continued supply that has come on the backs of high-priced liquids margins and with those pulled out of the space right now you know we think that is going to dramatically retard drilling.
And so if you're I would say conservative and may be even bearish relevant to our peers about where we think liquids prices will be for the year then that also has you not being very bullish on people drilling for rich gas.
And so I would say those are the areas that from our perspective are most affected not so much the dry gas but really the richer gas areas are the ones we'd really pulled back our assumptions on.
That makes sense.
Thank you and just one last question on constitution if you could provide any updates there as far as how that's progressing? Sure Rory you want to take that one? Yeah this is Rory.
Jeremy we've had some pretty good news in the fourth quarter.
This is probably fairly well known but just as kind of a recap December 2 the FERC issued a certificate of public convenience necessity authorizing the constitution pipeline project.
So that's a big milestone for the project.
And then later on that same month on December 24 the New York DEC issued a notice of complete application on the project and sent out three public hearings that took place in that second week of January and they've set a deadline of February 27 2015 to get all of the written comments and on the action that they are considering.
So we've been working very closely with the New York DEC that's probably the next hurdle that we need to clear but they're asking a lot of questions.
I think they are very intent on doing their due diligence on the project and they've been very inquisitive but we've been working very hard and very steadily to get them the answers that they need and put them in a position to issue that permit hopefully in a few months after the month or two after the close of the comment period.
Great thanks for that.
Our next question comes from Brad Olsen from TPH.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
I had a really kind of a financial structuring question we've obviously seen Kinder Morgan take the step of getting rid of their MLP entirely and as you look out with the ACMP deal now closed and you guys have provided what I think is very conservative guidance versus you know what market expectations are and you're still building coverage even in this conservative $45 scenario that you painted and yet we still see WPZ trading a couple hundred basis points in several cases wider in terms of yield than a lot of the big cap MLP peers that its comped against.
And so I guess you guys have provided some interesting color in previous presentations in terms of kind of where you expect on a yield basis WPZ to trade based on its growth rate.
It seems like that discount is persisting and I was wondering if you had thoughts on a) any kind of further steps that you can take to close that discount and b) if you still find that WPZ is not an effective financing vehicle or is just simply too expensive of a financing vehicle would you consider simplifying your structure and eliminating the MLP or folding it into WMB? Yeah I would just tell you.
I think that's certainly a tool for us in the future I think though right now right we've got a great plan in front of us and we do believe that as these big projects come on and really begin to generate kind of tremendous cash flow that they've got that we're going to see the market reprice that the WPZ currency.
And so we think that is yet to come and certainly with Geismar continuing to be down and the big Gulfstar and Keathley Canyon Rockaway Lateral all these big projects really starting to kick up here for the balance of the year.
We think that's going to give the market a lot of confidence.
So I would say you know we certainly understand that the benefits of that as a tool for the future but I think right now we've got to execute on what we have and let the market retune itself before we make any further decision on that.
Got it thanks for that color just one follow-up as you look out into potentially heating up M&amp;A market in light of the market dislocations that we've seen recently and you think about potential opportunities in the M&amp;A market would you be willing to contemplate using WMB as a consolidation vehicle given the fact that you've spent the better part of the last year getting WMB into a fairly streamlined General Partner HoldCo or would you be willing to wait for WPZ's evaluation to get more competitive in terms of an M&amp;A currency before attempting to do anything? Well I would just say I think both of them are fairly undervalued right now from our perspective and so I think I'm able to get them both in position but I think it certainly would depend on the transaction as we move to that point then it will certainly depend on the transaction as to which one would be the more appropriate currency for that.
So it's nice to have both of them frankly because there are times when the co-op currency would be a much more favored currency than an NLP currency.
And so we think it's important to have both of them right now and we like having both those tools.
Great thanks a lot for the color Alan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just a quick follow up to actually to the discussion you just had with Brad when you were thinking about it taken or whether its a tool in your chest further down the road is it fair to assume that given the fact that you're effectively based on an earlier comment not a taxpayer at WMB through 2017 that it pretty much wouldn't make sense to even consider it until you actually become a taxpayer is that sort of the way we should be thinking about that as kind of the first step in terms of whether you would consider taking it at all? Shneur this is Don.
I think the tool is one that we'll continue to look at and yes we're not a taxpayer for many years.
However there are other attributes to the option but again I think as Alan mentioned earlier we think execution is likely to cause WPZ to trade at a level that is appropriate given its opportunity set the growth set and we think the relatively low long term risk that natural gas growth demand drives.
So again we'll just put that on the shelf.
It is something we'll continue to study but we think that execution is job number one and yes taxes are something that would not be all that valuable for quite a few years.
Great thanks.
Okay so just moving on to some of the questions that I had first there's been quite a few announcements by many of the processors around the country of significant cost saving initiatives some headcount reductions and so forth and I realized at the time of the merger you were very adamant about no headcount reductions if anything you were looking to hire people and so forth.
But I think more kind of in a different commodity environment today I wonder if that thought process has changed at all and you are pursuing some sort of cost reduction strategies? Sort of I was wondering if you can sort of comment against what you're doing versus what the rest of the industry is doing? Yeah great question and we certainly are going to put a lot of pressure on costs and we do think that we've got a lot of room to do that and so certainly using the buying kind of into these lower material costs costs on things like lube oil which as you can imagine is with as many spending parts as we have in our businesses is a big number for us.
And so we certainly are going to go after cost on that side.
On the headcount front I would say there are certainly a lot of those opportunities coming to us as we merge a lot of support functions.
But I would say we still really need continue to preserve our strength on the operating and technical side because we do have a lot of growth on that front but it is shifting around and we will need to shift some of those resources around to be focused on where the opportunities lie but I would tell you we still are looking for great talent in the technical and operating side and we do see some opportunities on the support function side as we continue to consolidate the organization.
So we are pursuing them aggressively I guess is the best way to say that and we do think that's quite a bit of opportunity around that.
Okay and then a question about the dividend policy last night youve effectively tempered the growth you said it in your prepared remarks reflecting the current commodity environment is it also fair to say that this is somewhat of an affirmation that's no longer going to be kind of an idea or waiver type strategy in terms of how you sort of structure the PZ distribution and the Williams dividend policy or is it really just about the current commodity environment? Shneur we believe that WPZ is sufficiently strong to carry itself without requiring any IDRs.
We initially designed it very stout coverage.
Fortunately we have that stout coverage designed in and we used it but nonetheless as you can see here we're building coverage back again in a way that we do not expect WPZ to need that reverse.
And as Alan pointed out with 88% in fee-based gross margin with 30% of that coming from interstate pipes and another 27% coming from ACMP and its cost of service contracts and MDC's we have nearly 60% of our gross margin coming from either interstate pipe or cost of service MDC type revenue.
So very low risk we think on relative basis cash flows so again we dont see a need for IDRs we dont think either the market puts enough value on those to make it worthwhile.
Okay that's fair enough and one final question just with respect to Geismar I was just wondering if you walk us through where you are with ethylene production today and sort of the confidence that you know it will be at full runway in the first quarter kind of like what are the hiccups or challenges that you're dealing with today that you need to get complete so that you can actually be at full run rate by the first quarter? Yeah well I am going to have John Dearborn provide you a little more detail here but I would just say in general as we started up the plant we hit a  we started seeing some inefficiencies and some fouling in our heat exchangers that are critical to reaching peak efficiency in a plant like that.
And so rather than continue to be dogged with that we chose to take those heat exchangers off line stop sales on ethylene out of the plant for a while and get those heat exchangers cleaned out adequately to make sure that we could get back to absolutely full efficiency on the plant.
So and not continuing to try to run through that as we pull through startups.
So that's really what's going on that's not a big issue it's just a matter of getting some of the residual fouling that had been sitting in those heat exchangers and getting then tuned up.
But we have gotten the plant up and running.
We've had all the systems up and running.
We just werent hitting the efficiencies that we wanted to and so we're back getting that tuned up.
And then the next step would be to bring on the larger expansion as well and so we think we've got that part of the plant ready to go as well and so that's what we'll be doing here for the next three weeks or so is tackling both those issues but things are going well on that front and we're pleased with the way the work is going.
John have you anything to add? Yeah obviously Alan is very well informed on this issue of how Geismar is going.
I think we should keep him well informed that way.
The only think I would add is as we look forward it's our intension that we bring the plant back notionally to the base capacity level that 1.3 billion pound rate and at that rate which as you heard Alan say earlier we've demonstrated now 70% of that rate already operating with nine furnaces then we'll line up plants and will be absolutely certain that the plant is running stably and then we'll take the next steps to ramp up to the full capacity getting up into that high 90s operating rate against the full capacity over the subsequent few weeks.
So that's the way we had it planned out and we're making very good progress of getting this heat exchanger cleaned and expect to turn the plant back over to operations next week and in a few days after that be back in the pipeline.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot guys I really appreciate the color.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Good morning.
I was just curious you guys in the press release talk about the deferral over the planned drop down of the remaining NGL and Petchem projects.
When are you thinking that that's going to be deferred do you have a sense of an idea when that's going to be? Christine this is Don.
You know we didn't put a date on it so it's not embedded in any of the guidance that you see here; however I think I'll just say we'll be opportunistic about that so we'll look to do that when we think WPZ has the financial capacity to do that in a real value creating kind of way with that capacity or with a combination of some debt and equity when the equity is trading in a way that we think is more appropriate.
So right now I'll just say we'll be opportunistic and we'll deal with that as we see the right facts and circumstances line up.
Okay and then my next question is a bit of an operational one.
You know in a prior response to a question you talk about how you stripped out $100 million of margin tied to areas where there is obviously rich related drilling.
If I am to think about kind of the Marcellus and you know you've previously talked about Oak Grove coming on at the end of this year is there really a reason for that to come on by this year? Can we defer that I mean it doesnt sound like Fort Beeler is going to be fully utilized this year so can you just kind of migrate whenever volumes are dedicated to Oak Grove to Fort Beeler in the meantime? Christine actually Oak Grove is PXD 1 [ph] is up and running already and recall that that is where our de-ethanizer is and so we have both the processing train there and the de-ethanizer there at the Oak Grove facility.
So for operational reasons it's good for us to have that up and running.
I would tell you that again even though we pulled the upsides in the step that's not fully contracted out of our guidance on our forecast there are a couple of very sizable packages of gas out there that we are extremely well positioned to capture because we do have that capacity available.
And so I'm not going to get into specific customer names there but I would just tell you we're extremely well-positioned to capture those because we do have that capacity available and so we're excited to have that Oak Grove capacity ready and available to serve those customers and we think we're going to build and capture that.
There's quite a bit of gas that is just sitting there not flowing today because producers have had troubles bringing pads up.
And so I think as those come on and as we have an opportunity to capture some of that other gas out there we're going to be really glad we have that capacity available.
Okay so no changes to at least a second chain of Oak Grove then the timing of that then? That's right.
Okay and then my last question is you know we've always talked about potential to convert Geismar into fee-based with the customer.
Given all the changes that have happened in the last couple of months has this thinking changed or is the challenge really finding a counterparty to do it with? No I certainly don't think it has changed and we are certainly looking to really think about that from a shareholder value standpoint.
Certainly if we were just looking at the PV or the cash flows as we think that having the commodity risks especially as it covers our ethane processing risk we think that absolute PV of those cash flows is probably better providing the commodity risk.
However given the beta and the volatility that that brings in from an investor perspective we think there's some value to be had by lowering our risk.
And so it's a matter of finding that right trade-off.
And as we said as I said earlier the fact that we've got a much lower assumption and expectation right now on the commodity margin actually gives us a little more room to go do a transaction like that and so we certainly are very interested in that.
And I would tell you that while they seem separate the ability to bridge between somebody's needs on Geismar 2 and perhaps their more current needs from available production at Geismar 1 starts become the opportunity there.
So we're still very interested in doing that and we think the current margin environment gives us a little more room to do that because we wouldnt be coming out and having to lower our guidance so much if we werent able to convert that into fee-based.
Great thank you so much.
Our next question comes from Brian Lasky with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Good morning.
Just want to back in on Christine's question a little bit you guys seen the appetite among producers potentially to convert to fee-based contract as they are looking to print more barrels and show more growth is that something that theyre potentially open to in this tough environment for the right price level? I would just say that a lot of our business has converted to fee base.
And so really the place that we have remaining exposure on a key pole basis as I mentioned is about a little less than 15% out West of our total gross margins out there.
And so I would say it continues to be an opportunity but we structurally I would just tell you there are ways for us to keep the risk and for them to report the barrels.
And so that I would say we figured out and weve done a lot of that in the past for the producers report the barrels as an owned equity barrels but we dont have to really change the equity ownership of those barrels.
And so thats always a discussion that were always interested in Ill tell you that we on the processing side we have over the years tried to contract for fee base when the margins are high.
And take on the key pole when margins are really low and so but just because we certainly believe in that cyclicality of the processing margin.
And so I dont know that were really changed the perspective so much on that front.
Got it and just on the Access business seemed like quarter-over-quarter a little bit more flat this quarter.
Can you maybe just kind of talk about the trajectory you see going forward there and kind of what puts and takes are you seeing? Bob can you take that one please? Yeah certainly Alan and Brian glad to look at I think we didnt feel we felt like we had a really good quarter actually and are seeing good volume growth in our Northeast areas Utica very strong still strong volumes in Marcellus Eagle Ford volume is still growing as Alan noted Niobrara coming up although whilst picking that up here in process.
So we feel very good about our performance coming out no integration impacts from that.
And in fact or looking for the kind of growth that you saw in detail as Access standalone continuing and in fact accelerating with the Williams team.
All right thanks Bob thats helpful.
And then finally Don I was just wondering if you could maybe just speak to the kind of leverage capacity you think you have at the MB level I mean in order to stay arent you rated up there? I mean then would you guys have any appetite potentially fund some projects of that level? Brian I think at this point in time we dont have much in the way of debt capacity to volumes level.
So obviously as cash flows build and for past margins improve or build into that capacity.
But today it wouldnt be here that we have that capacity to do much of anything in the very near future.
Okay thank you very much guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Good morning guys thanks for fitting me in.
Good morning Craig.
Alan in response to Brians question about processing contracts you expressed the long-term contrarian view where you see the cyclicality continuing.
On that note in contrast to going to fee based to Geismar would you have the appetite for increasing the commodity exposure on the midstream processing to kind of neutralize some of your exposures on both ethane and also take advantage of that long-term cyclicality you are describing? Yeah great question Craig and I would just say that we certainly are not in the Olefin business for the sake of being in Olefin business and we see its a nice extension of our midstream business in a way to push through into those markets and keep those markets open.
On the tail end and certainly we are working to try to be neutral on that ethane to ethylene spread were actually a little bit short ethane right now.
If we were to turn on all of our ethane recovery capacity obviously were very short right now because were not recovering ethane anywhere.
But if we wanted to turn on our ethane if we were at full ethane production against the contracts we have we still would be a little bit short ethane.
So trying to get neutral on that but another way of getting neutral on that would be to and were into some T based contracts on the ethylene side and therefore reduce our length on ethylene and reduce and improve our balance between ethane and ethylene.
So I would say thats more likely the way we would approach that.
Great thats helpful and on the commodity deck for guidance on obviously very conservative.
But the one area I had a question on and I understand that you dont really have a long-term ethane markets that are useful.
But if Im not mistaken recent ethane-ethylene crack spreads are perhaps few cents below the full-year guidance if Im not mistaken.
Can you provide some color around Olefins margin expectations and market drivers you see as Geismar achieves more capacity? Yeah sure.
Well first of all just want to tell you that on the ethylene side remember that that is at a $55 oil price.
And so we think that ethylene price is very commensurate with a $55 oil price that we have in there.
Also you obviously have to pay attention to the spread and not just the absolute price that we have in there would it sounds like you are focused on Craig.
But the other thing that I think its missed sometimes in this is that we are actually at the netted price and remember that we produce in the Mississippi river market.
And so while we certainly sell and exchange a lot of our product in the Mont Belvieu as well we do have exposure to the Mississippi river market which has been extremely short and theres actually a lot of derivative production thats been down in the area due to shortages.
And so you have to take that into consideration when you look at our proposed ethylene spread.
And so I think we feel pretty good as you look into the 2016 and 2017 timeframe you can see our ethylene price coming up but you can also see that the ethane price is coming up right along with that as well.
And so really again need to look at the spread I would say Im pretty bullish.
The ethylene market as we look out in next couple of years because the growth that I think we're going to see in the economies and the lack of near-term productive capacity coming up its pretty hard to argue there isnt going to be quite a bit of pressure on those Olefin markets to the upside and lot of demand coming to that.
So thats what I would have to offer for you.
I think we feel pretty good about where were positioned there and John is a great student of that space as well and Ill John provide any additional comment you want to make.
And I only one few other things to add up first the lower prices are certainly expected to stimulate some demand but also weve been looking at some recent reports that would say that were seeing slowing exports and increasing local demand here in North America for ethylene and ethylene to reproduce.
And certainly the ethylene derivative market remained quite strong.
The second point I would add for consideration here is that if you look at ethylene inventories there are pretty much all time low levels to estimated to be about six days worth of production in inventory at this point in time.
But remember that all those six days are not available to take advantage of a production mishap and nearly no one forecast production mishaps.
So we think there are probably only about maybe three or four days worth of usable inventory theyre ready to make up for some production shortfalls.
And certainly coming into the year we see a couple of crackers that are down now though we have a light turnaround season this year.
And then lastly I'd turn your attention a little bit further to the Louisiana market today with the Evangeline pipeline shutdown and suffered some from reliability issues at the moment the spot price premium between Texas and the Louisiana is in the $0.08 to $0.10 down range.
I think as we bring our facility back in operations that will likely return to more normal levels but were very well aware on some derivative capacity there on the river that is underserved because of the combined outage of both Edmonton and Evangeline.
So I think as Alan expressed and as I would confirm here we are generally positive as our guidance would suggest so thanks for the question.
Very helpful thank you.
Our next question comes from Sharon Lui with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up question on ACMP maybe if you could provide some color on the organic growth opportunities and what type of CapEx is embedded in your guidance relative to the historical levels for the G&amp;P business? Bob you want to take that? Sure yeah Sharon it's nice to hear from you.
In terms of just looking at going forward you'll notice we had a good strong capital year this year and weve given I believe a three-year look out here in the new numbers.
And if you compare those to our past guidance youll see some strength in capital over our older forecast just in terms of our thinking that there are still new opportunities coming.
These assets have not been worked hard and we are seeing the kind of backfill that weve always talked into our capital not just dropping off the ledge when we finish this first round build out that arguably happened this year.
So we still see good capital investment opportunity and as you know that drives earnings given our business model.
But has that been I guess the shift or change in producer's willingness to commit to like a contract under cost of service under the current commodity environment? Well these are not new contracts these are continuing to build on the footprint that we have already established.
And are continuing to build out in these core areas like Utica and the strength that were seeing there in the Eagle Ford where yes drilling softer but theres still good strong drilling going on and really just filling out our existing portfolio.
Okay great.
And I guess just one question with regards to liquidity at WPZ so post the merger does the partnership have access to both credit facilities or is there plans to I guess renegotiate with the bankers for one larger facility? Sharon we put a new larger facility in place effective as of the date of the merger as well as a supplemental liquidity facility.
So we have abundant liquidity.
Okay and has the pricing terms changed? The pricing terms are more in line with WPZs pricing given its historic WPZs pricing in light of the fact that we have a mid-BBB investment grade ratings.
So the ACMP pricing really moved to the WPZ level of pricing and it felt a little better than it was in our prior facility.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Eric Genco with Citi.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi I just wanted to follow up a little bit on Craigs question.
When we look at the spot prices for ethylene if I will get sort of the Bloomberg today it looks like for Mont Belvieu youre looking at $34.75 per pound.
Is that the right number to be looking at and what is that now for the Mississippi River market today roughly? Yeah thanks for the question.
Unfortunately theres not an awful lot of transactions happening on the Mississippi River.
The few recent transactions that we saw came out to be plus about between $0.08 and $0.10 to that number that you see at Mont Belvieu.
And as I mentioned in my commentary just a moment ago at least I would believe that as we bring our plants back into service here through this early part of this year we would probably see that differential climb to more normal levels.
And those more normal levels range between $0.01 and $0.03 so if you are looking forward and it would be reasonable to expect those kind of differentials but certainly and once again we feel that theres a pent-up demand over on the river thats been lagging by our outage and the reliability of the pipelines getting ethylene to that market in recent past.
Okay thats helpful but the $34.75 thats a good number thats kind of the good number for ethylene pricing in Mont Belvieu as of right now? Its a good number whether all transactions happen at that level theyll probably happen around that number so yeah its a good number you are looking at.
And just I mean just kind of to remind me I should have this somewhere but I just dont it top of my head.
If Geismar is running at say 95% 98% or whatever the target is what percentage of I guess U.S.
ethylene capacity would that be like? How much more is coming back onto the market? Yeah its around its just under 4%.
4% okay.
Yeah right in that range right.
Right and then my second question just switching gears I guess to Atlantic Gulf and I'm sorry if you touched on this it looked like the other segment costs jumped pretty significantly there.
I can understand that theres going to be some perhaps some startup costs associated with Gulfstar I was hoping you could quantify that a little bit more? And then just try to understand if thats what it is at Gulfstar are there any revenues or any revenues whatsoever in the quarter from Gulfstar inventory and charge or anything like that? Well yeah there were revenues in the quarter from Gulfstar.
I think we had $19 million of new Gulfstar fees.
We actually collected quite a bit more than that in really the second half of 2014.
So we have the cash in but based on the revenue recognition model that were using we kind of have to dose out those collected dollars based on the forecasted throughput through the facility.
So our cash numbers are actually are far in excess of the $19 million that we took to earnings.
But that will continue to grow and we are collecting a base fee or demand fee under that contract.
And then theres a usage fee as well as those barrels and those MMBTs of gas total across the facility.
So thats a fairly significant impact on revenues in the quarter.
Also our Transco transportation revenues were up fee-based revenues were up about $15 million.
And there was some IT volumes and some short-term firm deals and as well as some seasonal volumes that we saw pushing that number up.
Okay but is there something that kind of caused the I mean is it really Gulfstar startup or how much of this is one-time to go from sort of 3Q number of $133 million above the some of the cash cost to say $160 million? Yeah that the quarter I would say is not really indicative of the year.
So if you look at the year in total on the expense side we were right on our target but if you look quarter-to-quarter it looks pretty extreme.
Ill tell you what happened though if you remember the polar vortex that we went through Q1 of 2014 it was kind of an all hands on deck period for Transco we were sudden new records seemed like almost every day.
It was a pretty severe environment and we saw almost all of our expenditures that we could push got pushed into the second third and fourth quarters.
So just it was a game of catch-up all year and we just wound up loading a lot of those expenses into the fourth quarter.
If you look at the years total its pretty much right on.
All right this was helpful thank you very much.
Yep.
And our last question comes from Timm Schneider with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey guys just real quick and first of all I appreciate all the color you gave on the ethylene markets that was super helpful.
I think it is funny as your call was going on Axio filed for Private Letter Ruling for their MLPs so you already got someone for your fee base Geismar ethylene I guess.
I mean so I just want to switch over real quick then to the Northeast.
Can you just give us a little bit more color on what the exit rate maybe was at OEM? And then secondly have any of the producers up there actually pushed back to you and kind of had some look can you give us a break on any of these rates that you guys are charging us in exchange for it will keep the volume going? Timm sorry Jim Scheel you want to take that please? Sure you know as we spoke last time we were pretty bullish about ending the year around 400.
That didnt happen.
We had a couple issues associated with some pretty significant CRPs that had some operational issues associated with producers actually having a much richer liquids content.
So well expect that volume to show up later in the year as we install the equipment necessary to handle that quality issue that we faced at the end of the year.
So we ended just over 300.
We have been talking to our producers and as has already been talked about it that number of different times we have a much different expectation for growth around OVM but it is continued growth its just at a slower rate.
We have had discussions with producers about renegotiation of agreements and thats not to go not without opportunities for us to improve on the base agreements that we had achieved with Cayman and negotiate some better terms.
But at this point those are just preliminary discussions and we have not made any commitments to make any changes but obviously if we can create a win-win position with our producers we will be open to those discussions.
All right super outlook thank you guys.
Thanks.
And it appears we have no further questions at this time.
So I would like to turn the program back over our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay great well thank you all very much very excited about our future and really like how we've repositioned ourselves here and derisked our forecast substantially and yet still tremendous growth in distribution.
And we think best months it appears considering our conservative forecast.
So thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to talking to you in the future.
That does conclude todays program.
You may disconnect at anytime.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Todays conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Joshua.
Good morning and thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com.
These items include yesterdays press releases and related investor materials including the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily.
Our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to questions and we also have the five leaders of Williams operating areas with us: Walter Bennett leads the West; John Dearborn leads NGL and Petchem Services; Rory Miller leads Atlantic Gulf; Bob Purgason leads Access Midstream; and Jim Scheel leads Northeast G&amp;P.
In our presentation materials you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Finally I mentioned that we will webcast our annual Analyst Day on May 13 where we will provide an in-depth look at all of our businesses and our extensive backlog of in progress and potential projects.
We hope you will join us for that session.
So with that I will turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great thank you very much John and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us and I will jump right in here on Slide 2 with snapshot of our first quarter results.
The highlight for the quarter was the completing of our merger of the two MLPs to create the new Williams Partners.
And with this milestone achieved we have created a leading natural gas focused MLP thats positioned to drive consistent long-term value for our investors.
And this quarters results also show very strong underpinning of growth in our fee-based revenues that will drive our growth for many years to come.
And in fact all five of WPZs operating areas had fee-based revenue growth and four out of the five enjoyed double-digit percentage growth compared to first quarter of 14.
And so the Northeast Gathering and Processing segment delivered an impressive 43% growth in fee-based revenues and that was even despite an outage on one of our  an ethane pipeline in the area and the Atlantic Gulf posted a very impressive 22% gain due to the first of many new projects coming online during the quarter and a continued build on the strength of that business and of course Access Midstream fee-based revenues continued their steady upward march going 11% over the prior year 1Q.
We expect this growth in fee-based revenues to continue as we had major projects like our Keathley Canyon only start to contribute very late in the first quarter and big projects like the Rockaway Lateral and Leidy Southeast will provide substantial growth in 2Q and beyond.
The weak spot for the quarter was NGL margins being off by $105 million versus the first quarter of 14 and our Geismar plant did not start consistently producing ethylene until late March.
So due to the strong growth in fee-based revenues and the strong contraction in commodity margins actually 96% of our gross margin in the quarter came from fee-based revenues.
Overall our first quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA was up 12% to $918 million and Williams received $515 million in distributions from Williams Partners which is up from $455 million in the first quarter of last year.
Overall coverage for WMB was at 1.14 times and this was after increasing our quarterly dividend per share up to $0.58 which was up from $0.40 last year.
WPZs coverage was lower than we would have liked but even with the major drop in NGL margins if just the base Geismar volumes at the actual sales prices during the quarter had been producing we would have fully covered our distribution in the quarter.
So again thats just the base Geismar volume not the expanded and just at the actual prices so really shows I think the strength that we are positioned for as we look forward to the Geismar volumes really starting to kick in here in the second quarter and then get to our full expanded growth volumes in June.
I am also pleased that we are reaffirming our guidance today as it relates to WPZ distributions and WMB dividend.
And for Williams our guidance is $2.38 per share in 2015 with 10% to 15% annual dividend growth through 2017 and all that with growing coverage.
And for Williams Partners we are reaffirming our distribution guidance of $3.40 per share  per unit in 2015 with 7% to 11% annual LP unit distribution growth through 2017 also with growing coverage.
So we are also reaffirming our EBITDA and dividend and distribution growth for both Williams and Williams Partners but we do expect that 2015 to be near the low end of our ranges as we communicated in our 2014 year end conference call.
And so this is really primarily due to three items here.
One the planning assumption that we have changed on the ethylene prices that we think now from a planning assumption we have got that built in at closer to the first quarter actual prices of about $0.38 a pound for the balance of the year.
And we think there will be some ups  we think there may be some upside of this but we certainly want to be closer to current prices with our assumptions right now.
Secondly we have been informed by a couple of our Northeast producing customers that they will curtail Marcellus production as natural gas prices in the basin have been low and they will continue if they dont see this improve.
So we have seen some price related curtailment.
We havent seen that fall into necessarily the drilling operations but we have seen it in terms of just physical shut-in of production.
And so this is going to dampen some of the expected growth from our Northeast volumes.
However we continue to feel very strong about the health  overall health of that business as demand for natural gas picks up and some of the extreme bottlenecks that exist in the Northeast started to be relieved.
And then finally we missed some revenues in the first quarter from Geismar and we are currently expecting to not get up to the full expanded plant rate until June.
And as you know earlier we were expecting that to come on at the full expanded rate in April.
So those are really the there items that are driving us down towards the lower end of our range for EBITDA and DCF.
So with that lets move on to Slide 3.
This list really shows some of the large scale assets that we are executing on.
As you can see its a long list and you will also see a tremendous amount of progress that occurred during the first quarter here.
An important trend that you will see here is that a lot of these projects are really on the demand side of the business.
And so the natural gas market as we have talked about we think is going to continue to expand.
It was first driven by low gas prices on the supply side and now we are seeing the demand side start to pick up.
So whether in the near-term with projects like the Rockaway Lateral Mobile Bay South III and Leidy Southeast wherein the longer-term projects like Dalton Lateral and Virginia Southside II the demand side of our network is really picking up and the request for proposals continue to come in for many market driven expansions.
These projects when we talk about for instance like the Dalton Lateral they dont just include the laterals into the new markets these projects also provide shippers with firm on our mainlines back to the supply point.
So we are expanding our mainline all the way back to the supply points as we build out those laterals both because as you know the Transco system is fully subscribed.
So really nice investment opportunities as the market expands.
We have also put some of the mainline portions of our Virginia Southside and Leidy Southeast projects in service early.
And we have been very busy at the FERC filing certificate applications for projects like Atlantic Sunrise Dalton Lateral Virginia Southside II and Garden State project.
We also are seeing the market into our NGL business coming to life with projects like Bayou Ethane in Texas Belle being placed into service this quarter as well.
And on the supply  and during the first quarter we commissioned the Bucking Horse plant in the Niobrara area.
And that will now be reported over in our West segment.
We also commissioned the Keathley Canyon Connector project and we have reached an agreement to acquire up to 21% interest in the Utica East Ohio gathering system from Enervest.
The Keathley Canyon Connector just a little more of that we did receive first production from Anadarkos Lucius platform about midway through the quarter but then in late March we began receiving a very large volume of gas from Exxon's Hadrian field and so just a little more detail on that.
The Lucius field as you probably know is a deepwater oilfield and the Hadrian field is a gas field.
And so really the power of that Keathley Canyon project because the Hadrian field didnt get turned on until towards the end of March we really didnt enjoy a whole lot of Keathley Canyon Connector.
But here in the second quarter that facility is really ramping up very nicely with some very strong volumes coming off of that as well as our Gulfstar project continues to build in production and volumes there as well.
So as you can see this list is fairly lengthy and its a testament to our great teams that are working very hard everyday to execute on this very aggressive and robust growth plan.
And we are really starting to see a lot of these projects come to fruition and we are beginning to see the financial benefits a lot of tremendous efforts by our  all of our project teams that are executing.
And so with that lets move on to Slide 4.
Just to close out here first of all the ACMP-WPZ merger as we said really we think puts us in the position for the natural gas MLP with strong cash distribution growth and investment grade credit ratings.
We do think its the MLP to be exposed to amongst the large caps if you like the prospects of overall market growth for both natural gas and natural gas derivatives.
We would remain very focused and dedicated to our strategy on that side.
And we really feel very good about where we are positioned on that.
And additionally I would say on the merger we have also build some confidence in the synergies and the cost reduction opportunities as the combinations of our businesses has preceded.
We continue to commission and bring on these large scale assets.
And the first quarter is a great evidence of that which you are going to see throughout the next several years continued strength of these big projects coming online and really driving strong growth in our cash flows.
I will remind you about 88% of our WPZ gross margin is we expect to come from fee-based revenues.
And as mentioned a combination of the strong growth in the fee-based revenues in the first quarter along with some very weak commodity margins actually drove that up to 96% in the first quarter.
So we probably will be below that number here in  sorry we will probably be above that 88% number here in 2015 by a combination of very strong fee-based revenues and less dependence on these weaker commodity margins here in 2015.
And in fact in about $9.3 billion of our 2015 through 2017 in-guidance growth CapEx 99% of this growth CapEx is focused on fee-based projects with nearly $30 billion of committed and potential growth capital through 2020.
So our strategy remains very sound and the backlog of projects to serve the demand side of the growing natural gas markets continues to build and its also continuing to firm up.
And we are very confident our plan is realistic and allows us to continue to provide solid shareholder return in whichever commodity price environment develops.
All of this gives us great confidence that we will deliver high quality long lived cash flows from our competitively advantaged assets.
And finally I want to give you one last reminder about our Analyst Day being held on May 13.
And as I said you can find information related to this event on our website as John pointed you to.
And we really look forward to sharing with you our great future.
And with that we will open the line up for questions.
Thank you so much sir.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Shneur Gershuni with UBS.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I guess my first question is you sort of talk about a host of projects I think its about $9 billion worth of capital to be spent over the next couple of years.
I was wondering if you can sort of talk about plans to finance these assets? Is there enough EBITDA coming in place in 2015 that your leverage ratios can support you investing mostly in debt or alternatively will you need to rely on the equity markets as well too? Good morning Shneur.
This is Don.
I think the beauty of it is those projects come in fairly ratably during this period.
So I think you can look at it as a continuation of the kind of organic growth that we have seen over the last several years.
And we have a lot of that built into our near-term plans for 2015 as it is.
So not to say that there couldnt be some additions but we think the capital additions would be relatively modest.
It could require some additional debt and/or equity but we think that will be pretty modest in 2015.
Certainly as you can see in our guidance the capital falls off somewhat in 16 and 17 and that will be filled with some of these organic projects as they are contracted and/or sanctioned and we would expect a combination of debt and equity to finance those in the future.
Okay great.
And just a follow-up to some of your prepared remarks you talked about the potential for drilled uncompleted wells in the Northeast is this a scenario where we would see those volumes really manifest itself in the second half of this year after the summer smoothen gas prices that we typically see or is this something that could take longer to play out? And then if you can also talk about what the impact would be on the legacy access assets as well too in terms of the fee of service rate structure that you have in place? Yes sure.
I will take that in the two parts there.
First of all just to clarify what we actually are seeing is actual shut-in of existing flowing production.
So  and my comment around the drilling operations was comprehensive to both the drilling and the completion.
So we are not seeing a lot of drilled wells not being completed we are just seeing actual decisions to shut-in production because of extremely low netbacks in some of the constrained areas up in the far Northeast part of the Marcellus.
On the second part of that question ye the areas that we see that we would obviously see that pickup to the degree that volume coming in lower we would see that affect the cost of service calculations for the future if those volumes didnt flow.
And we will by the way Bob Purgason is going to be given a nice tutorial of that at the Analyst Day and going to provide some more detail at our May 13 Analyst Day around the way some of those contracts work in this environment.
Cool.
And one last follow-up I was wondering if you can just talk about the Canadian oil fields business for a minute margins have been challenged and so forth kind of like what steps Williams is taking to try and improve that and so forth or is it really just going to be dependent on the macro environment? Yes great question.
I would say that first of all extremely low pricing in the quarter on propane up there.
And so we actually saw Edmonton propane a lot of you probably dont follow Edmonton propane because you just see the Belvieu and Conway postings but Edmonton propane really actually got down to around a dime.
So it was quite a bit lower than the value of natural gas in the quarter.
So we did see some extremities up there in the Alberta markets in terms of seeing very low propane prices and that certainly did hamper and will continue to hamper.
The long-term solution to that is great projects like our PDH project which will provide great markets for those captive propane barrels up there.
The propylene market remain actually pretty good and we are railing that out of there as part of our PDH project to the degree we go ahead with that which we are excited about that project still and to the degree we go ahead with that not only will that open up markets for the propane through the conversion to propylene but also will provide a new market for the propylene there via the polypropylene unit that would be built downstream of our facility but  and we wouldnt own that but it would be part of the overall complex.
And so we are working to open up markets if you will for those stranded products and so thats really the effort that we have growing about that.
We also do have with that some structure contracts that will come that will put some callers around the value of our products up there and help make that look more fee-based and take some of this extreme volatility that we have seen there.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to touch on this  the acquisition of the 21% equity interest in UEOM.
And given it was immediately accretive you guys still are or at least WMB is waiving $43 million of IDRs between now and 17.
Is this because the JV is reinvesting in the cash flow back into the business or is there something else going on? Christine this is Don.
Good morning.
Williams chose to waive the IDRs because its a business that also has quite a bit of growth.
So the cash flows in the first year first couple of years are not nearly as robust as they are a few years out.
So thats really what made it immediately accretive is really the willingness of Williams to support the acquisition because we think its strategic one.
And two we think it will provide very attractive returns.
Does that answer your question? I guess just a follow-up  actually I will follow-up offline.
Pricing for Geismar at least for the existing facility I know that you have numerous contracts but from what I understand at a high level the reference pricing is Mont Belvieu but I think you are actually selling it in Louisiana.
So are the contracts structured so that its Mont Belvieu plus some fixed number on top of that maybe $0.02 or $0.03 because thats what the customer would have to pay for transport if they were physically bringing it from Texas? And then its  some of the expansion capacity that will be exposed to the actual spot pricing in Louisiana which is currently $0.10 to $0.15 higher than Belvieu.
Is that kind of how I should be thinking about it? Yes.
Christine actually those contracts are swaps back  a lot of those are swaps back to the Mont Belvieu market at Belvieu market.
And so there are exchanges between parties that have product in the river versus  and parties that have demand at Belvieu.
And so those are actually are setup as swaps.
And so you shouldnt build anything on top of that.
The way the business is structured of course there is a number of different contracts and there is quite a bit of complicity to it but the way you really should think about it is that we have customers that have a call on about 80%  up to about 80% of our production at Geismar.
And sometimes they will take all of that sometimes they wont.
If they dont take all of that then we have the 20% plus whatever they leave for us to sell into the  physically sell into the Geismar market on spot.
And so thats really how you should think about that.
So when we are operating at just the base rate we wont have any excess available to sell in to that market unless somebody doesnt call on that production for whatever reason they might have a plant down or they maybe have a better price from somebody else and it might not call on that volume.
And at that point we would be free to sell it in to the highest value market wherever that is.
So I think thats the right way to think about that.
I see.
Thats very helpful.
And then what about the expansion capacity is that going to be the same way or thats going to be actually exposed to spot pricing in Louisiana? Well as you can think about a lot of the actual expansion so  basis we are running at about 70% of total expanded which is very close to base rate.
And so at the number I quoted at 80% is 80% of the full expanded rate.
So at the base rate we dont have any excess provided that people call on their volumes.
I see.
Okay that was very helpful.
Thank you.
And then I guess could you also talk about expectations for the ethylene market maybe near-term and medium-term it sounds like worldwide supply demand is pretty tight for the year and maybe was short in the U.S.
next year but any insight into what you are seeing would be helpful? Yes.
I am going to ask John Dearborn to pick up on that please.
Yes.
Thanks Christine and thanks for the lead-in on the subject as well.
So I guess from our perspective we would be a bit bullish on ethylene as the year wears on but we dont want to set an unrealistic expectation.
But if we take a look at steadily increasing oil prices strong demand strong margins in the derivatives certainly here in North America we will be filling some underutilized assets in the Louisiana market.
And we came into the year with relatively low inventories and so all of that I think would blend credence to a positive outlook on the year.
Of course how the market performs would  is yet to be proven.
Great thanks so much.
And next we will move on to Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
John can we just kind of keep on the thread of the ethylene price for a second.
And I guess I am trying to think of basically to Christines question you are trying to reconcile thinking that we would maybe be on a gradual strengthening through the year versus it sounds like Alan what you said for planning purposes we are kind of keeping it more flat at this $0.38 level.
And so I guess I am just trying to better understand what may  whats going to have to happen to kick the ethylene price back into the 4 years or where our midpoint of guidance is for 16 and 17 is there a gating event we should be watching or is it something as simple as quite frankly just global GDP here? Thanks for the follow-on question.
No I think there are a number of factors that could play into the prices moving up.
I think this is a natural tightening of the market as these markets the uses of ethylene growing year upon year globally into the very large markets at somewhere above 2% a year somewhere about 3% a year I am sorry.
These global markets grow every year.
And its okay that supply has been  and there is not a lot of high coming in the next year or so.
And so you could imagine its going to be a continual thing you can just basically find on demand.
Of course we are going to un-restrict the market a little bit here but from Louisiana and Texas that should be helpful to the Gulf Coast certainly to the Gulf Coast market.
And I think the third factor that could play into this is with relatively low inventories coming into the year of ethylene.
And we always predict rather high utilization rates on crackers.
We have had a pretty good first quarter but if there should be some mishaps in some crackers around the system in the Gulf Coast of course that could provide a negative supply shock to the market which would of course have an impact on prices.
So I just think its a general growth in the ethylene building markets thats going to continue to see us enjoy some positive pressure here.
But I cant ever predict as how quick its going to move.
If we look at polyethylene today polyethylene is selling somewhere around this $0.50 range.
And so there is certainly plenty of margin in the changed matter of like a split between each of the products in the chain.
Okay thats very helpful.
Thank you.
Alan and I understand you guys are going to be doing a deep dive here quite shortly but is there any additional color perhaps to share say for instance on Appalachian Connector at this point whether its on a slow burn or I guess is there anything incremental to add at this point? Yes not a whole lot to add there at this point Carl.
I would just say the market is continuing to try to shape around that.
And I would say its a mix between  on our project is a mix between producer push and market pull and trying to find the right balance of that.
And obviously one of our primary goals there is to make sure that we have the very best market outlets available for our upstream assets coming out of OVM.
And so thats an item that we have focused on pretty tightly and has I would just say added some parameters and constraints to the project.
And so thats one of the things though that from our advantage point we are very focused on and we are very serious when we talk about connecting best supplies to best markets.
We are very serious about making sure we accomplish that.
And so thats really been one of the complicating factors on that.
But we will have more to talk about at the Analyst Day on that.
Would it be fair if I think the last timing update is potentially late 2018 and the service if it all came together kind of working backwards is it fair to say  well to meet that date you need to get commercial viability contracts by the end of 2015 as far as the potential target? Yes.
I would say given some of the difficult areas that includes Appalachian Trail crossing and some forest  right around some forest service I would say thats getting pretty late if it pushes back that far.
So I think people are going to learn some lessons on that effort in terms of trying to get build through that difficult area.
Understood I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Chris Sighinolfi with Jefferies.
Hey Alan.
How are you? Great.
How are you doing? I am great.
I just had a couple of questions.
I am not sure if this is one for you or for Don but I am just looking at the project sort of calendar which slide that is it looks like the CapEx on Atlantic Sunrise came down by a touch from the time you reported 4Q it looks like about $200 million just wondering what drove that? Yes sure.
Well I would tell you thats pretty exciting news.
And I would say that the  if you think about all of the resources and the  whether its steel mills or skilled labor if you think about all of the resources that we are supporting some massive drilling operations here in the U.S.
and the fact that those are now slacking we really are starting to see that come through even though its a different area of the business we are really starting to see that come through in our sector of the business as well.
And so that reduction was based on a number of things.
One was a firm we now acquired our pipe is purchased and we saw that come in dramatically lower than our expectation for the price with the price of steel coming down.
And we also are seeing much softer prices on the contractor rates for construction practices as well.
So the team is doing a great job of really looking for any and every opportunity on that.
And so we had quite a bit of contingency built into that.
And so we are just taking  one of those is just actual prices of steel coming in much lower than we expected and some of the rest of that is taking some of the contingency out that we had built in there.
So Alan is that something we are likely to see on some of the other projects you are advancing or is it just given where Atlantic Sunrise was in the development phase at the time of the price collapse that was sort of squarely manifested on that project.
And then as the second question I think you had talked about a seven times multiple anticipated on that project in particular is that now likely to be improved versus that prior estimate or given your assessment as to what was sort of captured originally is it unchanged? Yes.
No you are right.
That will come  that will fall right to our bottom line because that project was negotiated great projects.
So whatever capital we save comes to us on that.
And on the first part of your question around will we see it that kind of savings trends into other projects I would say absolutely.
We are seeing some pretty big relief on major equipment on steel prices and importantly on the availability of engineering and skilled labor resources.
And so we certainly will see that come through.
I would say though that before we write that into our books while that is subsiding I would say the regulatory environment for projects continues to get more and more difficult.
And so we have to leave some contingency in there for that.
So the actual cost of construction for these projects I think is definitely  the answer to that is definitely that is coming down but clearly like we have seen on projects like constitution where the regulatory format is  and several people have say so over it and sometimes are mutually exclusive requirements.
Those kinds of complications I think will continue to hit the industry particularly in areas where there is heavy population centers like in the Northeast where a lot of the growth is.
Yes.
No I understood.
I guess switching gears my second question would be in regards to the ACMP side of business I think you guys have reiterated the CapEx plan there roughly 21% of the $9.3 billion with the CHK CapEx reduction already sort of anticipated by you in that number or is there downside to perhaps how much CapEx to put in the ACMP side in conjunction with a slowdown over at Chesapeake? Yes.
Let me have Bob Purgason take that.
Yes.
Chris I think what you are seeing is the big build out on our systems has largely already occurred.
So even though we are seeing a slight kind of current decrease in capital in general just you are not going to see something significant because the infrastructure is built out.
Okay.
So in terms of the cost of service modeling that we had done historically on the ACMP the major driver of that is simply how much you could deploy in any time period? I guess what I am getting after is do you have much in the way of sort of visibility on that side of it certainly as we move past 2015 or are we sort of just cautiously trading along and watching what the producer CapEx might shakeout to be? Yes.
Well again I think we will talk some more.
In fact I have got some good examples of how the cost of service models respond to this environment coming up at the Analyst Day but again remember the bulk of that build out was in the early years thats occurred.
And we had planned always for the capital to tail off in the out years and then you have adjustment there for some contractual growth that happens as a result of that levelized rate.
But again its I would say on plan to what we have expected in terms of current performance.
Okay great.
Well thanks guys for the help there.
I look forward to more color on the 13th.
Thank you.
And next we will move on to Craig Shere with Tuohy Brothers.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Craig.
Don to start with your answer to the equity issuance question didnt exactly sound like what I thought I heard on the last call when maybe you might have described 16/17 base case budget following de minimis equity issuance.
Are you perhaps more agnostic as you see how commodity pricing shakes out and how does the CapEx deflation pressure Alan just referred to reflect on those kinds of decisions? Craig thanks for the follow-up.
Again I was commenting on again what I think we have a modest amount of equity required to execute the plans in our guidance.
However obviously we have a lot of other projects on the burner here.
And I was really commenting on the fact that some of those additional projects would require some additional financing.
I think that was part of that question.
And that additional financing would be a combination of equity and debt.
And the real guiding  the guidelines there are really maintaining our credit metrics and credit ratings.
So that will really be the guide.
In terms of the way we are thinking about UEO right now we are always thinking of that as more of a 13% acquisition versus the 21% because we do expect that our partner will step up and acquire the 8% that they have a right to acquire.
I got it.
So the base plant hasnt changed at all in terms of funding despite some of the first second quarter headwinds you all described? Yes there is some I would call it modest changes obviously the UEO was certainly not part of the plan.
Sure.
And any further thoughts I am sure you will discuss it in a couple of weeks here but around ACMP WPZ merger related commercial opportunities and CapEx savings over and above the $50 million cost synergies? Let me take that.
I think the commercial opportunities continue to be very exciting particularly in kind of the West Virginia and Southwest PA area.
And so thats very attractive.
And as well I would say the combination of our joint venture opportunities between in the Utica are also presenting some nice opportunities and the combination of the liquid clearing outlets for that business are very attractive to us as well.
So I would say the opportunities have probably been maybe even a little better than we thought because we have got Access with providing basically a greater reach and some great capabilities in terms of well connect and compression addition in the area that really allows us to kind of expand the reach for OVM.
So we have got several deals that we are working right now that are fairly substantial and really are just firmly as a result of having those two capabilities brought together.
So we remain very excited about that.
On the CapEx  sorry on  further on synergies a measure I like to look at is what percentage of our overhead or our G&amp;A costs are hitting us as a percentage of our fee-based revenues and that has come down pretty dramatically here over the last  as we look in 14 in other words we take all of our G&amp;A expenses compared to fee-based revenues in 14 and look at that into 2015.
Thats come down pretty dramatically.
And its hard to move that number very big because it is such big numbers but thats a measure that I like to watch and thats improving very nicely which tells me we are able to use the scale of our overhead to grow our business and bottom line improve our net margins.
So both of those things are very positive.
And I would say as well on the CapEx side we are in general expense side we are finding things where we are able to take the best contract offerings where we buy chemicals or lube oil or things like that on a procurement side and our supply chain management side we are finding some good synergies there in taking the very best prices amongst the two entities.
Great.
Thats helpful.
And last question again I am sure we are going to hear some more but is there anything more to speak on with regards to PDH and Geismar 2 opportunities? I would say that as I mentioned earlier the cost reductions that we are enjoying on the pipeline side were also seeing that on some of the heavy equipment side for project like PDH.
And so as we are refining those estimates on PDH to come forward for our final investment decision on PDH we have got a lot of positive tailwinds associated with lower cost on that.
And we are hoping to be able to provide a little more detail about where we are on that at the Analyst Day Meeting in terms of the traction but I would just say just generally the PDH project is moving ahead very nicely and we are more nearing having all the facts and figures in place to make a final investment decision on that.
And then on Geismar 2 really strong interest in the project and I am pretty excited about the way thats positioned with some pretty attractive partners and I think that one is moving at the pace we would expect and we are excited about that as well.
So both of those projects I would say continue to gain momentum.
Great thank you.
And our next question comes from Brandon Blossman with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Alan moving kind of to the longer dated end of your project backlog and thinking about whats out there including potential projects it looks like quarter-over-quarter one you have rolled forward a year but two you have added $5 billion to that big picture outlook is that just a function of rolling forward or is there quite a few incremental projects in that outlook? There are a few incremental projects in the outlook and I would say that we also  I am proud to say we are firming up some things as well as some projects in the kind of the medium-term that have  that we have added in there that just kind of came to us unexpectedly that have been added.
So several of the market-type expansions for instance on Transco but we have also got some sizable opportunities as the market continues to build out for the LNG.
Transco of course is extremely well positioned to serve many of the LNG projects.
And so we have gone through some very successful open seasons and so thats adding some projects.
And as well we have got some opportunities to with  into serving Mexico that are  have come on the radar screen as well.
So overall its a combination of new projects kind of in the medium-term that have been added in and are firming up very nicely and further out on the back end some of these new projects that has Transco serving markets in the southern end of its system.
Okay thats helpful.
And I guess fair to assume that we will hear more about that at Analyst Day or all those projects.
Third question for you even bigger picture.
Are we kind of firmly moving as it relates to Transco but gas transport in general are we moving from a temporary supplier-driven project Q2 much more weighted towards demand things and demands in your project? We absolutely are and I am really excited to see that.
I think all along we have thought that this natural gas market growth would come  has been supply-led and obviously thats put lower prices out which is just further encouraged the confidence in the demand side just are taking advantage of that and we are really starting to see that come through on our systems on the natural gas side.
But we also I think we remain really excited about that as it relates to the natural gas liquids and the Petchem space and positioning ourselves to be able to serve that growing market as well.
So I would say the natural gas market expansion is upon us.
And we are seeing that through all of these RFPs and all this growth in our system.
And we would try to be ahead a little bit of the NGL Petchem build out.
And we are very confident that with the expansion going on in that space its going to take a lot more plumbing and storage to serve that growing market.
As we positioned our self well for that and the Bayou Ethane project and Texas Belle are just kind of the front end of those opportunities for us.
Okay thank you.
I appreciate it.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from Eric Genco with Citi.
Good morning.
I was wondering is kind of piggybacking on some of these CapEx questions is there some building conservatism to your maintenance CapEx guidance of $430 million because the roughly $15 million this quarter seemed  is that really just seasonality or is there sort of a hint there that maybe thats some built-in conservatism? No I wouldnt go put that in the bank.
That is seasonality and we typically see that in the first quarter.
We have got winter weather and we have got the crews tied up on meeting peak demands.
We hit some extreme peaks on our system here in the first quarter and so thats a really bad time to be to be maintenance on your pipelines.
And so you will see those dollars increase here over the summer months.
You will see as our work crews are out doing those  doing the maintenance on our pipelines you will see that pick right back up.
Okay.
And then my second question I was hoping you could expand a little bit on sort of the Canadian side of things is the Canadian PDH facility all included in some of the CapEx guidance that you have given for the MB side of things? No it is not included in guidance.
It is in that potential pie the $30 billion but it is not in the $9.3 billion guidance.
Okay.
I am just trying to I guess get a sense of the different pieces of whats there because I kind of look through the projects that are there it looks like their horizon upgrader comes on 4Q 15 is that in parts of PV through 2015 [ph] Texas Belle build through 2015.
There is - and then kind of looking at that relative to the CapEx guidance of $260 million for growth for 2015 $185 million for 16 what - I guess what are some of the $185 million in 16 and just to try to understand how the capital spend is going there because it really if you look at and I understand that there are some commodity issues that work but given kind of the way it looks like some of those things are coming on I just want to understand what I am missing because it looks like for an incremental $35 million of EBITDA over that period of time but $445 million in over those 2 years I am just trying to understand that and whats missing? I am not sure exactly what you are looking at.
For the segment capital guidance there.
It's on Slide maybe not 17 but probably close.
And so your question is where is the profitability from all of that capital spending that? Well there is that and then maybe also just the timing of what is  whats going on in 16 that requires $185 million if Horizon comes along in 4Q 15 and the ethane pipe and then what Texas Belle in 15 where is sort of the  where is that going and whats the incremental? Yes great question.
And as I mentioned on the previous response we really are excited about being kind on the tip of the iceberg and building out the infrastructure for the Petchem expansion.
And so a lot of that capital in 16 is focused on building out for what we think is a growing position on the Petchem side there.
And so we are putting quite a bit of capital to work building out some of these legacy systems that we bought a couple of  2 years or 3 years ago we bought quite a bit of a latent pipeline down there from parties like Exxon and BP and Explore.
And so this capital is putting a lot of those pipelines to work making interconnections extending them expanding them and pushing them into those markets.
And so thats what a lot of that capital was.
Okay thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
And you can see some of those projects on I believe its Slide 37 I believe it is you can see some of the detail.
And we will be providing some more detail in the Analyst Day on that.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
And next we will move on to Mark Reichman with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good morning.
Alan has alluded to some of the challenges in receiving permits etcetera.
And so just wanted to ask if you could just walk us through the process of bringing Constitution in service in the second half and what variables could lead to and in-service date at the front end versus the latter part of the year.
And maybe expand your answer to talk a little bit about some of the regulatory challenges of some of these projects that are listed on Page 18 of the data book and your expectations with regard to how they apply to the expected in-service dates? Question and then I am going to ask Rory to give you some more detail on the Constitution project and whats going on.
The projects that many of which are on Page 18 there many of those projects are along our existing right of way.
And so to agree they are along are existing right of way much less public resistance and certainly thats one of the huge advantages of Transco is that its already got right of way in the extremely heavily populated areas that are very difficult to establish any new routes and so most of those projects are expansion along that existing right of way.
You can see that one big exception is that leg coming down on Atlantic Sunrise.
But our team has really gotten ahead of that and its done a nice job of getting out and getting some of the tougher areas of right of way pin down on that one.
And so I would say we are very fortunate to have the established right of ways that we have.
And I would say Constitution is an example of one where we didnt have existing right of ways.
And I think as kind of foreshadows what the industry is up against in terms of getting new pipelines built in areas like this.
And particularly as you get further into New York and New England area it gets more difficult as you get into those areas.
And everybody wants lower priced energy but nobody wants the pipeline in their backyard and thats simply the issue that we are facing here.
And we really need some political leadership to really establish an energy policy that would encourage and help the public understand the benefit of having these lower priced energy into their areas.
On the Constitution piece I am going to turn that over to Rory to talk about the detail to permitting them.
And just quickly is it challenged more at the state level its more at the state level than the federal agencies correct? It is certainly in general that is correct.
In the case of Constitution it is almost squarely on the state there.
But the challenge is when the feds have delegated their authority to the state and the state doesnt see it as something they critically need.
Thats the reason we have interstate commerce laws and so that one state cant block another state from enjoying the benefits of infrastructure.
And yet in some of these cases for whatever reason the feds have delegated some of their authority and that is where we run into some of these problems.
Rory will take the permit please thanks.
Okay.
That was a great runway to kind of where we are at from a regulatory standpoint to get this project in service.
I think everybody is aware that sometime ago we got our FERC certificate for this project.
But as Alan pointed out some of the permitting had been delegated to the state of New York.
We have most everything we need other than the New York DEC final permit on this project.
We do have all of our land and right-of-way secured.
We are what I would say  what I would call in the final pros of working through some final details on some wetlands issues and the New York DEC I feel like it really rolled up their sleeves and working with us very closely on trying to get the remaining questions answered.
And we are very optimistic that we are going to be getting a permit here in the next couple of months.
And I believe there is also Corp of Engineers permit that would follow that.
But thats more of a sequencing issue than an issue where we expect any type of dispute or anything like that.
Once we get started and like I said we believe that will be in a couple of months and take about a year to construct thats not exactly right but for planning purposes just figure a year or so.
If we get the New York DEC permits than the permits from the Corp of Engineering which would follow say middle of the summer then we can be in service in the middle of the summer in 2016.
If they come in later just kind of use that year timeline as how much we would move back in-service date.
But I would say in general right now I feel better about this Constitution project and where we are at than I have in the last 2 years.
Things have really been coming together.
People have been very engaged at the agencies.
They are trying to do their job.
And I think because of the climate in New York their standard is very high.
But they are just going to make sure that they have all of their ducks in a row and I think we are very close to that point.
So if the DEC is taking public comments until May 14 then you think that they could file or grant the permit say in the June timeframe? I think thats the case.
This latest re-filing that we did with New York DEC was merely procedural.
In fact the year prior we had done the exact same thing but we basically canceled and re-filed with all the existing information that we have been building up in the project.
And in fact the New York DEC came out and said they required to have this open comments period but they said look we have already commented we got your comment we are going to be using and considering all the previous comments that have been supplied.
So the additional 14 day period would be for if there are any new comments that hadnt already been covered by the previous comment period then those would come in.
But I think all of thats has been run down to ground pretty sufficiently and I dont really see that as introducing any new risk into the timeline that we see before us now.
And not to flog it too much more but  so this was for the water quality certificate application so what about the air title permit related to the compression station upgrade? I think we have got all that.
This water issue is the issue thats really kind of the last has been push we need to get through.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for the color.
You bet.
Thank you.
And next we will move to Brian Lasky with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning.
Just curious on the shut-in volumes can you just quantify the impact of that for the quarter or just the magnitude going forward? I am sorry could you repeat that? The shut in volumes yes can you quantify that? Sure.
One of the probably most obvious pieces on that as Cabot has made some announcements on that.
And we expect that to be to between about $300 million and $500 million of shut in volumes over a number of that would grow and we think thats probably for about five months or six months.
So and most of that we think will just be here in the second quarter during the shoulder months.
And so they can make good money at very low prices up there.
But when the systems are full up there and there is not enough market.
They really get  the spot incremental sale gets extremely low and puts pressure on their other productions since they are such a large producer in the region they tend to put pressure against their own sales.
And so we think this is short-lived but and maybe second and into the third quarter a little better but thats about it.
So thats the amount we expect.
Got it.
And then just on your  I was wondering if you could just walk us through high level I am sure you will go through this more at the Analyst Day but just high level how you guys are thinking about volumes across your gathering and processing in the West and Northeast kind of the balance of the year if you could provide kind of a high level trajectory of how you are thinking about that? Yes.
Sure.
I would say in the West volumes continue to remain pretty flat pretty steady out there and the rate escalators that we have in our contracts over time have basically after gathering our fee-based gathering revenues extremely flat in the West despite some pretty light declines.
And so I would  I think we would expect that to continue.
I think the bigger question will come into the 16 17 timeframes in terms of what kind of continued drilling might occur.
The one area we are seeing some continued activity that our team has done a great job of capturing is in the San Juan Basin particular with the Mancos play and the team has done a great job of continuing to capture that business.
And of course the volumes in Bucking Horse will continue to grow and that plant just got really as we speak is really just getting lined out to build a ramp up to full throughput on that facility.
So those are kind of the drivers that I think will keep us relatively flat.
And we will just have to wait and see what holds for 16 and 17 depending on gas prices and how those move over time.
In the Northeast I would say continued very very impressive production rates from wells particularly the Utica dry the wet really have kind of for somewhat  to some degree of kind of not built into our plan but we are seeing more and more evidence that the combination of the Utica dry along with the Marcellus wet particularly around our OVM system is some pretty powerful combination of the economics for producers.
And of course the other side of that coin is the great success that they are having is continuing to put pressure on the bottlenecks and constraints getting out of the area.
And so again I think we are excited about seeing all of this demand pool coming into the market on our Transco system because we know where there are some great supplies that can help feed that for years to come and continue to grow the market steadily.
But I think we are going to continue to see pretty moderate drilling in the Marcellus and the Utica as forecast.
We dont see really big changes to that.
And I think really the only surprise to this for the quarter was just the shut-ins due to lower prices was really the only surprise we have seen on the volume side.
Got it.
So would you characterize what you are seeing thus far in the first quarter is pretty consistent with what you are planning in the guidance? Yes.
Absent the shut-ins? Yes.
Very close to it staying right in line with our expectations.
And then maybe just one last question.
You talked a little bit about the dry gas Utica and then  and one of your competitors that are out there talking about potential opportunity there and I was just wondering if you guys could talk about the competitive dynamics for some of those opportunities that you are seeing right now with the increase in the number of MLPs up in the region and also in light of whats going in the broader commodity environment? Yes.
I would just say whoever has got the pipe in place and has the best market outlet is probably going to win that business up there.
And we have positioned ourselves very well to get that accomplished.
And anybody can always come in and buy business and so forth.
But I think we are positioned to really make a nice return on our investment by just capturing the business that is  that we are well positioned to capture in the area.
And so I think we will continue to do that.
But clearly one of the key issues up there is going to be a multitude of market outlets not just any one market outlet but multiple market outlets.
And we are trying to make sure as we grow our system we are really investing our efforts in making sure that we have got best market outlets for the gas up there.
And so thats involved a large team on both our marketing side on the gathering end as well as our team from Transco and our Atlantic Gulf team really trying to make sure we are providing very best market outlets for the producers up there.
And just like that its always been a winner for Southwest we think that will be a winner for us in the Northeast as well long-term.
And just one final one on Appalachian Connector there do you have to negotiate directly with the park service there is that how that one works and does that require enact of Congress can you just maybe just walk through the regulatory process for that project in particular and kind of what you guys have baked into your timeline in terms of the regulatory schedule? Yes.
Maybe we will get into that level of detail a little more at the Analyst Day I will just say we worked pretty hard to stay away from areas that would require that kind of protracted permitting requirements in the area.
But its an area that requires some pretty careful orchestration to step through.
And we will provide some more detail on that  on the Appalachian Connector at the May analyst meeting.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Abhi Rajendran from Credit Suisse.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of quick questions now that the commodity backdrop has stabilized a little bit do you have any update on the drop down of the remaining NGL Petchem projects at WMB level I know last update you guys gave was that was going to get pushed out maybe later in the year but any update or color there will be helpful? Abhi this is Don.
Really no update at this point we can talk more about it at the Analyst Day.
But there is no urgent need to do it.
And certainly we feel better about it when equities are trading better.
So thats kind of where we stand.
Okay got it.
And then last quick one for me.
Looking ahead to Analyst Day are you guys thinking about sort of reintroducing the segment level guidance which you had last year would kind of help give some color by segment whats going on to volumes and margins and whatnot? Yes.
Abhi I would just say we havent confirmed that yet and so just stay tuned for Analyst Day.
Okay got it.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And next we will move on to Timm Schneider with Evercore.
Hey good morning guys.
Most of my questions have been answered so I have a macro question for you guys.
How do you see the Northeast NGL scenario kind of play out right so one of your peers is saying they are going to be running at 90% utilization just firing NGLs into the base and you are getting into the shoulder season where its another real propane demand basically lack of storage how do you think about realizations up in the Northeast and getting those NGLs to a home where they are actually needed? Yes great question Timm.
And as you know we have been concerned about this since the Bluegrass days and we remain very concerned about the clearing of liquids out of the area.
And I think unfortunately the answer is they are going to get cleared out there by rail.
And just as evidenced whats going on in that space our Conway rail facility for the first time that I can ever remember is even though we have dramatically expanded our rail position  our rail rack position there at Conway our inbound which I dont ever remember this occurring our inbound capacity on rail is fully contracted for the summer months.
And so I think that tells you kind of whats going on which is all those products getting put on rail and it is going to any home again for storage and Conway is an attractive place for that.
And of course Conway then has great access into the Bellevue markets when its needed there as well.
So I think thats what we are going to see I think already seeing it.
And I think the wholesale marketers of the NGLs have realized thats one of the few places that you can clear those liquids and then sell them into the market as the market demands them.
So I think thats what we are going to continue to see more of the beneficiary that there with Conway.
And if anything we are probably guilty of under-pricing that service given how strong the demand has been there.
Thats interesting.
Can you tell us how much of it is to rail from the Easter Conway? No I dont have the detail on exactly what that rate is.
Got it.
And in terms of building additional storage in the Northeast specifically I realize its all above ground storage because its simply reservoirs and that doesnt really work for NGLs do you have any sense of how much more it is to build storage in the Northeast than in the Gulf Coast? Well I would  if you don't have a salt formation you really dont have a very attractive place or a few projects that we have been looking at through the Access team and looking at some areas to try to develop that but I would just say it is the scale of opportunity is very limited for storage because you dont have the big salt lands like you do in either the Conway area or the Gulf Coast area salt land has provided the opportunity for storage.
Without that it's very difficult  and frankly thats one of the reasons that the Gulf Coast Petchem space is continuing to be prolific for year after year after year as one it has access in ports but also its got the great advantage of salt dome storage for both the raw  feedstocks as well as the finished product.
And thats in the Olefins basins.
So those are the big advantages.
And frankly I dont see that changing anytime soon.
So very expensive to build any kind of storage capability in the Northeast because mostly its going to be above ground storage capabilities.
It sounds like your view that Northeast in fact does need another export solution over call it the next 2 year or 3 years? Yes.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Timm.
Thank you.
And next we will move on to Jeremy Tonet with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Thanks for all the color this morning its been very helpful.
I just wanted to touch base  here has been some chatter in the marketplace for the potential of a family level consolidation to improve the familys cost of capital.
Our impression has been that there is not really any rush or need to do that do something like this right of way that we can give the post-ACMP structure a chance to prove itself and earn a re-rating from the market.
I was just wondering if you can provide any thoughts on Williams cost of capital and any other updates or thoughts on family level consolidation if that makes sense? Jeremy this is Don.
I think we have discussed that periodically in the past in terms of pros and cons.
And we do believe that WPZ is positioned to improve its cost of capital.
So you know we dont have that here today and we can certainly talk more about that during Analyst Day.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Christine Cho with Barclays.
Ms.
Cho please check your mute function.
Sorry.
I just had two very quick follow-ups.
The 80% swap at Geismar to Bellevue when does that roll off if at all? You know there is a multitude of contracts there Christine and so none of them  they dont all start in but typically they are not real long-term contracts that are established in that market.
But there is a variety of terms on those contracts.
And then with the maintenance CapEx I know you kind of addressed the regulated maintenance CapEx but what about for the well connects I mean if we are seeing a slowdown in drilling and completion could there be  could that number have come in lighter than you expected? Yes slightly.
But as Bob pointed out we have got a lot of catching up to do still.
We are still working off of quite an inventory of getting caught up.
So even if the drilling does slowdown we still  the well connects will still keep coming for quite some time.
Okay thank you.
And our next question comes from Ross Payne with Wells Fargo.
How are you doing guys? Great how are you? Good.
I was wondering if you can give us a little more detail on the Geismar startup kind of getting pushed back into June are there other issues outside of the heat exchangers that you talked about in Q4 and has anything really changed from Q4 to where we stand today in terms of trying to get it up fully to specs? Thanks.
Yes.
Thank you and appreciate the question.
It allows us to spend a little bit because we really havent hit that much today.
And a couple of things I really want to point out there one is that we did have the major equipment for the expansion up and running.
And so and in fact as we sit here today we are utilizing many of the components of the expansion facility.
So contrary to what probably you would be left to believe its not like we have just got the base plant sitting over here running and the expanded plant is sitting idle.
We are utilizing in this period a lot of the big elements like the furnaces for instance on the expanded facility.
And in fact we had the major equipment up and rolling when we had this transformer fail on us.
And so I think thats very good news because we been able to test all of the major components.
And in fact we are using this time period to put load test on the expansion parts of the facility.
But at the end of the day this EBR system is what is bottlenecking if you will the production on the plant on the ethylene side of the plant.
And until we get that transformer back in then we cant go on with the rest of the plant.
So the good news is we are not sitting here wondering about the rest of the major equipment in the expanded plant.
We have actually been able to utilize it and get it up and tested.
And so really this is  I hate to  there is nothing simple in a big complex plant like this but to try to put in simple terms we have got the plant  the expanded plant has been up and tested.
And its a matter of getting this transformer repaired at the manufacturers facility and getting it plugged back in.
And we did run that compressor that this transformer drives and everything was fine with that compressor.
And so its just a matter of getting the transformer plugged back in.
Okay.
And in the last conference call you guys talk about the heat exchangers getting up to about 70%.
Are you comfortable now that they can get all of the way up to 90% plus or are there other things that you need to do on that front? Thanks.
Again we have kind of had the luxury unfortunately we have had the luxury of time in getting some of those things that lined up.
And we have gotten  we had some fouling and some residue oil coating on some of those highly efficient exchangers and we have gotten those cleaned up and they are performing very well now.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you and that will conclude todays question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Alan Armstrong for closing remarks.
Great.
Well thank you all very much.
Appreciate all the great questions.
And we certainly are excited about bringing all of these projects and we really look forward to talking to you in more depth here on May 14.
Thank you for joining us.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude todays conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Williams and Williams Partners' Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Julia.
Good morning and thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases and related investor materials including the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to you momentarily.
Our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to questions.
And we also have the five leaders of Williams' operating areas with us.
Walter Bennett leads the West; John Dearborn leads NGL and Petchem Services; Rory Miller leads Atlantic-Gulf; Bob Purgason leads Access Midstream; and Jim Scheel leads Northeast G&amp;P.
In our presentation materials you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we reconciled to General Accepted Accounting Principles.
Those reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
So with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Great.
Thank you John and thanks everybody for being on the call this morning.
We've got a lot of things to cover today but before we discussed the second quarter results I'd like to briefly comment on the WMB Board Strategic Alternatives process that's underway.
And as you'll recall Williams announced on June 21 that it planned to explore a range of strategic alternatives that could include among other things a merger a sales of Williams or continuing to pursue the company's existing operating and growth plan.
A robust competitive process we believe is the best way to get the best options on the table and to maximize shareholder value and the board's review is meant to accomplish just that.
The process is underway and we're pleased with the progress to-date.
As I'm sure you'll understand we do not intend to comment further on this thorough review of these alternatives before the WPZ transaction today and we won't be commenting further on that until the process is completed and a more definitive course of action is determined by the board.
In the meantime and I can assure you that our focus remains on maximizing value and we continue to act in the best interests of our shareholders as we through this process.
And so with that let's move on to the first slide and talk about the tremendous growth that we enjoyed in the second quarter and a strong trajectory of growth in front of us.
So look here on slide two the package here in the second quarter certainly demonstrates the benefits from our clearly defined strategy of capitalizing on the significant natural gas market growth by connecting the very best supplies to the best markets.
We've been on this strategy for quite some time and is really starting to deliver a lot of significant growth particularly in our fee-based revenues.
For this quarter WMB's adjusted EBITDA was $1.02 billion up 32% versus second quarter of 2014 and at WPZ we had a record distributable cash flow of $701 million and delivered an adjusted EBITDA of $1.01 billion which was driven by fee-based revenue growth.
Overall we had solid performance from four of our five segments and the performance was delivered despite the fact that volumes were lower in some areas as a result of price related shut-ins and also because we are operating in a historically low commodity price environment.
So when we say lower just we mean lower than they could have been.
We actually had very significant growth in lot of those areas but certainly significant impact from volumes being shut in from gas prices.
So let me walk through some of the numbers here.
First of all in the Atlantic-Gulf really the strong performance from Atlantic-Gulf $389 million in adjusted EBITDA and this was up 44% on fee-based revenues from new projects.
And this group really is managing a tremendous amount of growth and just keeps on delivering this growth in a very safe and reliable manner so couldn't be prouder of all the great work going on there.
At Access $345 million up 25% on fee-based revenue growth and I have to say that certainly we're pleased with the contributions being made from this acquisition and it's not just the predictable growing cash flows that we all expected but I would tell you probably the piece that's been most impressive from my perspective is the great injection of new talent and ideas that are coming from our new fellow Williams' employees that came from this acquisition.
So integration and the synergies are going even a little better than expected there and we continue to see great opportunities out in front of us as we take in a lot of the ideas and we merge the entities particularly seeing a lot of opportunity up in the Northeast and we're really starting to get into some of the synergies within our operational excellence and E&amp;C areas as well.
In the Northeast G&amp;P this is $92 million up 21% and impressively on 54% higher Ohio Valley Midstream gathering volumes so really starting to see that come through and noted that the team had a record volume there just this week and really pushing out some big numbers there as those volumes start to come in and I'll let Jim Scheel address that later.
In the Northeast in general I would say that as the face of the energy in the U.S.
has changed over the past years and where it's coming from we have certainly worked very hard to get ourselves into a position to unlock the tremendous value of the Marcellus and the Utica areas like never before.
And we have put ourselves in a position and we are the leading gathering systems in the Northeast.
And we believe our shareholders are going to see great long term value from this tremendous position that we've been able to accumulate in the Marcellus and Utica position.
On to the West EBITDA was $150 million and this was down 27%.
But as we mentioned this really was driven by lower NGL margins and so that really was the big story out there.
But I will tell you from an operational standpoint continuing to see great performance there on both reliability of our operations out there and the safety of our operations out there.
And in fact in the quarter our gathering volumes were flat really as compared to the prior quarter and as the year-over-year quarterly comparison and our equity gallons so the gallons that we take for our account and our plant inlet volumes were both higher on a year-over-year comparison.
So West continues to hold its own but certainly impacted by lower prices there in the second quarter.
And then in the NGL and Petchem space the adjusted EBITDA was just $33 million and that number is certainly lower than last year due to the absence of the business interruption proceeds that we reported in the second quarter of 2014.
And the near zero prices for propane that we saw in the Edmonton spot prices from our Canadian operations.
But this of course was a little bit offset by the Geismar as Geismar began to ramp up here in the second quarter.
But really that was probably the disappointment from my perspective for the quarter was not getting Geismar up as soon as we would have liked to and we did have some very serious electrical power problems on the feed into the plant and we've gotten that behind us now but it has certainly hampered our operations there in the second quarter.
So once again I want to reiterate the overall growth our teams are delivering and we've begun to enjoy the fruits of our labor as we manage the tremendous growth that we really have thought very hard to win on our Transco system in the deepwater and certainly in the Northeast G&amp;P and we expect big improvement now in our NGL and Petchem services group for the balance of 2015 with Geismar now online and Horizon coming on towards the very end of 2015.
Moving on to the next slide here  sorry I'm going back to  stay back on the slide sorry.
When you look at our results this quarter you'll see that our fee-based revenue growth really is coming through in a big way and pretty powerful the way it overpowered lower commodity prices in the quarter.
And I think that's really important that we are executing on that strategy in a big way of shifting our business to fee-based revenues and this quarter is an example of where that really pushed through what was some really strong headwinds on the commodity price this quarter.
And in fact at WPZ our fee-based revenues were up $537 million or 72% and while a lot of that was driven by the Access acquisition a lot of this came through our major projects that we're ramping up.
And so if you look at just the WPZ historic assets our fee-based revenues were up 17%.
And this doesn't include fee-based revenues from things like our proportional JVs.
So for assets like Discovery which of course got a big boost from the Keathley Canyon project coming on and our UEO investment in the Utica big improvements in fee-based revenues there but given the way we account for that that does not show up in that $130 million of incremental fee-based revenues.
On the NGL margin side we certainly experienced some serious headwinds and our NGL margins were down $56 million here for the second quarter of 2015.
In fact we only recorded $38 million of NGL margins for the quarter and it's been a long long time since we had that low a report for NGL margins.
The Geismar plant just to mention what's going on there did ramp up in the second quarter.
And albeit that was slower than we expected but it is now online and consistently operating at or near its full production capacity and we expect significant contributions from the plant here in the second half of the year as I mentioned earlier.
On a personal note I'd just like to recognize that that leadership team there at Geismar has been through a lot.
And I want to recognize the fact they have really kept their eyes on getting that plant back up in a safe manner and they continue to hit some really impressive safety records there despite a tremendous amount of activity going on at the plant there.
And I can't tell you how hard that team has worked to get the plant back up and running safely and I'm very appreciative of their efforts.
And so let's move on to guidance.
First of all we are reaffirming our Williams dividend guidance for 2015 through 2020.
And I would point out that the guidance that we've provided is based on an assumption of the completion of the acquisition of the Williams Partners public units by Williams.
We are also reaffirming our adjusted EBITDA guidance for 2016 through 2018 although we are lowering the 2015 adjusted EBITDA midpoint guidance that we issued in February by about 6%.
And of course this reflects the lower commodity prices that are showing in the market right now for the balance of the year and as well the problems that we had at Geismar and the ramp-up in the second quarter.
So the Geismar impact of that is really already in our second quarter and the balance of that lowering is coming through commodity prices for the balance of the year.
We also are reaffirming our dividend of $0.64 per share in third quarter of 2015 or $2.56 annualized and also our dividend of $2.85 in 2016 with 10% to 15% annual dividend growth coming through 2020.
And so on to the last point on this slide certainly a tremendous amount of growth continues to come at us.
And I want to say that we're very excited about how the major projects that are now contributing on the fee-based revenue side are really starting to drive our business and also a lot of projects that are on our list right now that will continue to build the stream of growing cash flows for years to come.
Now moving on to the next slide here and this is slide four.
First of all the projects that are beginning to contribute.
We said back in the first quarter at our Analyst Day in May that the demand side of the natural gas market is driving our project list and we are really reinforcing that here again today.
And as we look at some of the significant projects that we put into service here in the second quarter it's easy to see that we've really been executing and delivering on these projects.
And here as you look at the second quarter for example on our Transco system you can see here we delivered three very important projects in the quarter: the Rockaway Lateral and the Northeast Connector project that goes with the Rockaway Lateral so  but two independent projects there.
The Mobile Bay South 3 project we brought into service in April of 2015 and that was on time and on budget.
And our CPV Woodbridge project which was brought into service on schedule and below budget.
And our New York Bay expansion project just one more example we did make our FERC application in July here just recently as well.
So a lot of hits just keep coming on the Transco side.
Gulfstar One these big projects that we put on into service at the end of the first quarter really provided a lot of strong contribution here in the second quarter.
And the production volumes from the Tubular Bells prospect there does continue to grow.
And in fact the fourth well was just brought on recently there by the operator.
Our Discovery Keathley Canyon Connector certainly drove our proportional JV EBITDA in the quarter.
And again these are fee-based revenues that are coming from Exxon's Hadrian facility and Anadarko's Lucius facility.
Our Discovery system is running completely full now and we are really liking the prospects that sit around the Keathley Canyon system and the kind of high margin business that will continue to flow in on this system that is so well-positioned now in the Keathley Canyon.
We also completed an acquisition of the Fox Creek gathering and treating system.
And this expands Access's Eagle Ford footprint.
And as we said in the last call we expected to see producer systems come into the M&amp;A space and this acquisition is a really good example of that.
So this is a bolt-on to our business there in the Eagle Ford and a very nice addition of predictable fee-based cash flows coming in there.
We also acquired some additional interest in UEO and that interest is now up to 62% and this area is really enjoying tremendous volume growth here in the Utica.
On Geismar as I said earlier Geismar is now producing near its full expanded capacity.
And in fact our production here on Tuesday was about 5.27 million pounds a day of both ethylene and propylene and so doing very well there and we'll continue to optimize between our ethylene and propylene production depending on margins.
Coming soon as we look forward there's a lot of exciting projects left to come on for the year.
Our Virginia Southside project is expected to come in-service in the third quarter of 2015.
And our Leidy Southeast project is expected to come on in-service in fourth quarter 2015.
And so we're making good progress on those items.
Our Canadian off-gas processing we're making great progress towards bringing our CNRL Horizon project startup in 2015; and our Kodiak tieback which is a tieback to our Devils Tower platform is expected to come on in the fourth quarter of 2015.
And these tiebacks that we're getting to experience out here are really powerful tools in terms of driving a return on our business as they require very little capital and large amounts of fee-based revenues.
In fact our Devils Tower field is now nearly 12 years old and this is the fifth field to be produced from this platform now.
And Gunflint will be the first tieback to our Gulfstar platform and that is expected to come on in 2016.
And I would tell you that is well ahead of our original expectations that we had for that investment thesis in Gulfstar.
So really enjoying the benefits of really learning to aggregate and tieback production in these big deepwater spars.
Once again this list is certainly very extensive and I'm very proud of our team's progress as they really are delivering the growth that's out in front of us now.
Moving on to slide five we've said many times that Williams is uniquely positioned to connect the best natural gas supplies to the very best markets.
And we've certainly focused our strategy on natural gas and are positioned to take advantage of the demand growth that's both here today and is coming in the next few years.
We have bought and built our way into being the largest gas gatherer in the largest and fastest growing gas supply basin.
And we've built Transco into the largest and fastest growing natural gas pipeline.
Our second quarter results are certainly a reflection of the fact that our efforts are driving tremendous cash flow growth despite stark commodity price headwinds and our large scale fee-based projects are meeting or exceeding our expectations as they begin to contribute in a big way.
So the revenues from big projects like Keathley Canyon and Gulfstar are really doing very well and in many cases as I said going beyond our expectations.
Our focus on the fee-based growth means that we're expecting about 89% of WMB's 2015 through 2017 gross margin to come from fee-based revenues.
And we have $9.8 billion of the total 2015 through 2017 in-guidance growth CapEx and 96% of that is focused on fee-based projects.
We have committed and potential growth capital through 2020 of over $30 billion.
And I'll tell you that is very rapidly growing.
We really haven't updated that guidance in quite a while.
But I'll tell you that book of business is rapidly expanding.
It also  when we put that out we do not include things like our M&amp;A bolt-ons.
And so we've got a lot of M&amp;A bolt-ons that are coming at us and are very  we're very well positioned for and those are not included in that opportunity list as well.
So our backlog of projects does continue to grow and we just have not updated that just because it is so large to start with but we do continue to see great opportunities in our business both in terms of the known projects and the potential projects both continue to expand.
So I'd like to just sum things up like this with over $1 billion of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter and the record quarterly DCF both of these are driven by strong fee-based revenue growth and we're very pleased with our second quarter results as the headwinds of lower commodity prices are certainly being overwhelmed by the tremendous growth in fee-based revenues that will continue for years to come.
So some pretty serious headwinds that have been out there but well it's really impressive now to see all these projects starting to take hold and really starting to make our NGL margin rather insignificant up against the growth of our business.
And certainly the growth that we're seeing demonstrates the performance of our premier asset footprint in the natural gas infrastructure space.
And this includes the fastest-growing pipeline in the U.S.
and the largest and fastest-growing positions in the tremendous Marcellus and Utica basins.
So with that as we move into the Q&amp;A session I'd just like to remind everyone that the purpose of today's call is to discuss our operational and financial results for the second quarter of 2015.
And I ask that you please limit your questions to these topics.
We won't be taking questions on the Strategic Alternatives process or the WPZ transaction.
And once again I can assure you that the focus of our strategic alternatives review remains on maximizing value and that the board and management team will continue to act in the best interests of our shareholders.
And we're excited about doing that.
And so with that let's move on to the second quarter Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Our first question today comes from Brandon Blossman of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Actually a big picture question first up.
Alan you suggested that the backlog is actually growing no change to the official guidance.
What  just kind of qualitatively when would we or should we expect some updates there and is it just as things come to fruition or is it more of a quarterly type event? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say there's really two things you should see moving there.
One is that many of the projects that are in our potential backlog so that are in that $30-plus billion some of those projects will start to be moving in to guidance as we close deals there.
So a lot of big opportunity right now particularly in the Northeast and as well as Transco continues to be very successful in contracting for new business along its system.
And so you'll start to see some business migrate from that $30-plus billion into the guidance numbers.
So in terms of timing we'll just update that in that particular case as those deals are closed.
Secondly on the potential bucket I would just tell you we just  the demand side of our business is really picking up in a big way and we're extremely well-positioned to capture a lot of that.
And so we are seeing a lot of additional interest in that and we just obviously don't update that every single quarter.
On the potential side for one reason it's so large already it's not going to drive all that much but as we see significant projects move in there we're beginning to expand that.
But I think the first thing you should expect to see in the near-term is projects in the guidance side starting to build.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's actually very helpful.
And then somewhat related you mentioned Access operational synergies kind of showing up here recently.
Is there anything  any detail that you can provide around that or any specific synergies that you want to highlight? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you for that question.
We had identified that we would have 25 last year upon the acquisition and then 50 on the merger.
And right now we have in our sights a number that's better than 50 here for 2015.
And because some of that is being  even though it will show up in 2015 some of that will be full run rate; next year we'll actually see a larger number than that next year.
So a lot of those things are on some of the support services side but we also are in the process.
We've reorganized our leadership in the Northeast under Jim Scheel there and so we're starting to look at that the synergies that are available to us in the Northeast gathering area as well and those really will be 2016 kind of improvements in synergies and we're just really starting to identify what that really looks like.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> So stay tuned for the 2016 guidance number on synergies? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
That's good for me for right now.
I'll hand it over.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Shneur Gershuni of UBS.
Hi good morning guys.
Couple of questions on my front here.
I was wondering first if we can sort of talk about the MVC exposures at the old Access assets.
There's been a lot of discussion about it lately.
When you look at your exposures relative to your producer customers I was wondering if you think of it on a basin-by-basin basis and if there are any regions where it's possible the producer customer has I guess low to negative IRRs.
And I guess that likely is in the case in Northeast but I was wondering if you could comment if there's any regions where you see some weaknesses where producers are likely to be at or below the MVC should the commodity prices continue to be at the current levels or possibly get worse? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me try to take that and then look a little bit to Bob here.
If you are speaking of MVCs outside of the Chesapeake business for instance we do have some shut-ins in the Marcellus area.
And those contracts are under cost of service.
And so that value proposition of that would come back to us when that rate gets adjusted on an annual basis.
And so that's I think the best way to think about that relative to the Chesapeake business.
The MVCs that exist in the other Northeast I would say we're well above those  even at current shut-in production levels we're well above those.
I think the way you should think about that is that the volume support that we really have with that will come when the big pipeline projects come into service and there is known obligations to volumes into those downstream pipelines.
So Constitution Atlantic Sunrise and Leidy Southeast obligations into those projects will drive some support for volumes just because we know what the obligations are into those take or pay obligations on those pipelines.
Access Operating Area</span></strong> Let me...
So...
Access Operating Area</span></strong> Yeah I was just going to add the two areas where we've got through MVCs the Barnett and the Haynesville obviously were below the MVC in the Barnett.
We do look at them on a basin-by-basin basis.
And our view is that drilling in the Haynesville will come under the MVC that's growing in that area.
And you're seeing that in the volumes that are showing up.
But the Barnett is just not attracting the drill bit right now and we don't think will be for a while but it still is producing good cash flow in terms of its lifting cost compared to the current netbacks.
So just to confirm the Barnett is not attracting the drill bit likely negative returns for your producer customers and is that the case also in the Haynesville? And that's why you're saying it's going to probably come under the MVCs at some point? Access Operating Area</span></strong> Well I wouldn't speculate as to Chesapeake's returns in that area in total.
I'll just note that the Barnett's producing good free cash flow in almost any environment and that that Haynesville is attracting drill bit currently.
Okay.
My follow-up questions there was a big pickup in ethane volume sales in the Northeast.
I was wondering if you can sort of talk about the big shift.
Is it something that you did is rejection suddenly not happening? I was just wondering if you can sort of give us a little bit of color on that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
One thing we didn't mention was that towards the end of the second quarter we brought our ethane pipeline up there into service.
And so we now are running our de-ethanizer and that ethane pipeline feeds in to the  some of the contracts where producers have to sell their ethane.
And so that is what's driving that.
So now we're getting incremental fees for those ethane services that we wouldn't have been getting until that pipeline and the de-ethanizer replacement service.
Okay.
Final question.
I realize you can't talk about the strategic review process and so forth.
I was just wondering if you'd confirm whether a data room is currently open or not.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're not going to talk about that Shneur.
We're just going to have to hold a very very firm line on this (32:42) answer your questions on.
Okay.
No problem.
Thank you very much guys.
I appreciate the color.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Tonet of JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Just for the strategic process I appreciate you might not be able to say anything here but I wanted to bounce a couple of thoughts.
Is there anything you can share with us as far as what the timeline might be there? And also you talked about some smaller bolt-on acquisitions.
Does this process interfere with any larger M&amp;A aspirations you might have? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll take the second question just to say that it is business as usual in terms of our bolt-on M&amp;A efforts.
And so we continue to execute on our plan and our strategy in that regard.
Okay great.
Thanks for that.
And then in the Northeast it looks like gathering volumes were down a little bit quarter-over-quarter but processing was up.
I was just wondering if you could share a bit more with us in terms of what you hear with regard to producer customer activity there in the back half of the year and how you guys are thinking about volumes at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
I'll just take that real quickly and then if you've got some more detail Jim Scheel can chime in.
Really the only impact the gathering volumes and production available is actually growing pretty rapidly.
And as you saw the big increase we had in OVM volumes with a 54% increase in gathering volumes in the Ohio Valley area.
But the real impact was from shut-ins particularly from producers up in the Susquehanna County area and some very substantial shut-ins that are due to lack of infrastructure availability.
So we hear the term gas price there but in fact it really  the problem isn't the gas prices.
They were enjoying $270 gas price up there.
They would be pulling everything they could but in fact with all the constraints and lack of takeaway infrastructure right now they're not getting that kind of pricing level and so some of those big producers start to bid against themselves as they put additional supplies into the market and so they're taking actions to curtail that production and so  but in fact continue to develop the reserves and are making ready for when these big pipeline projects like Leidy Southeast Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise come on up there.
And so there are some big volumes and big gas purchase contracts that will stand behind those and so they're readying their availability to deliver against those obligations.
And so it's just about that simple.
The rest of the business the Northeast volumes are in particular like I said OVM volumes are doing well and the Utica volumes are doing well as well on the joint venture operations that we have there.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And...
Northeast Gathering &amp; Processing</span></strong> No I'm sorry.
I think Alan got it thanks.
Just a follow-up on the Northeast.
You'd outlined some of the cost savings that the Access merger had brought into the fold.
I was wondering if you might be able to talk a little bit more about the commercial synergies that you might see.
And I think during the Analyst Day you talked about specific hubs there and opportunities related to that.
So are there any further thoughts as far as what joint commercial opportunities could occur after the combination? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
A lot happening there.
Probably the most obvious and the easiest to talk about is in the OVM in the Ohio Valley Midstream area where Access's North Victory system sits just to the north of our OVM system and extends the reach there.
And as well the ACMP team's capabilities on building out the gathering systems and the modular compression to attract those volumes is well-known by producers in the area.
And so we have a really big list of producers that we're working with right now that leverage off of the combination of those existing ACMP systems feeding into OVM as well as the expansion of those systems into new acreage that's been taken up there.
So a lot happening on that front and it really just boils down there  within OVM it boils down to the expansion and the reach of our system just got a lot bigger into the OVM processing and fractionation complex.
In addition to that though I would mention two other things.
First of all the Utica dry is really starting to hit some  people  far exceed especially our expectations I would say in terms of the potential of those reserves in production.
And we're extremely well-positioned there on capturing the Utica dry business.
And so again the reach of the Access system that's in the area along with the OVM system is powerful in that regard.
And then finally the joint ventures between the Blue Racer Midstream business and the UEO system both are very well-positioned on the Utica and are enjoying growth there.
And of course we're looking to find ways to combine those systems in a way that really provides a super system for the area.
And we think we're extremely well-positioned to bring that about.
So a lot happening there that really is the combination of the historic Access assets and the historic Williams assets.
And I think when we back up couple of years from now and look at this very impressive coverage of the area in terms of being able to offer producer services on both Utica dry the Utica wet and the Marcellus wet and particularly where those things cross over.
So a lot happening there and we couldn't be more excited about the number of opportunities that are coming at us right now in Jim Scheel's area.
And do you see more opportunities to kind of take advantage of that liquids production extending your footprint further downstream? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know there's a lot of great projects out there.
We are certainly working with our producers who control those liquids to try to find the right opportunities and certainly are encouraging that infrastructure to get built on the downstream side.
And so I think from our vantage point we're looking to try to encourage the development of that infrastructure but it's really our producers' volumes and they'll be the ones that need to speak for the support of those projects.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just one last one if I could.
With regard to Geismar how close will 3Q 2015 be to a complete full quarter? And is the O&amp;M run rate in 2Q is that a good run rate for the segment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me have John Dearborn take that.
Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> As Alan mentioned we made about 5.27 million pounds per day on Tuesday.
I think that would be a pretty reasonable rate to expect because we've been able to demonstrate that for reasonably long periods of time in excess of a week through this past several weeks as we brought the plant into full operation.
So we're very encouraged with where we are today.
So I think that's a fair way to look going forward.
I think the one thing to take into consideration on the O&amp;M numbers is we did face a rather substitute power failure during the second quarter which would have seen some higher O&amp;M costs.
I'm going to venture to say somewhere in the range of about $6 million to repair furnaces which were unexpected.
Those furnaces  it's a pretty normal thing when you face a significant power outage that you've to go in and repair the furnaces.
That's what takes time and it took some money in the second quarter.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from Craig Shere of Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Craig.
Inc.</span></strong> So I got one follow-up on Brandon and Jeremy's question in the Northeast and then a couple on commodities.
So picking up on the Northeast opportunities there's been a couple absolutely monster Utica dry gas wells.
I think one was just reported this morning but in the last week a couple really big ones.
Is there any way to give a rough range of the potential size of midstream service opportunities in the dry gas area out there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Great question.
And I will tell you that I think the challenge for everybody up there right now is getting the takeaway capacity out of the area.
And so there's no doubt that the potential was there at this point.
I don't think anybody that's involved or engaged in the business up there doubts the potential.
And especially in areas where you already have pads established for the Marcellus wet and even some of the Marcellus dry the underlying Utica under that and the ability to take advantage of the existing pads and existing infrastructure to bring that production on is where we think a lot of that big production will come on when there's an adequate call for it by the market.
But as we sit today the market  the supply side is desperate to see those expansion projects come online on the gas takeaway side to be able to alleviate that.
So I think that's really the curtailment if you will right now that will stop that from being  going gangbusters but it is impressive.
In terms of the opportunity for us we've got a multi-billion dollar opportunities right now that we're looking at in terms of expansion of our systems up there a lot of which is driven by both the Utica dry and where it overlays with the Marcellus wet.
And so we've got very  we're very far along in negotiations.
And as I mentioned earlier that's really where you ought to start to see our growth come from in terms of our potential projects.
Besides the Transco demand side you also should start to expect some of that business that was in the potential start to move into the guidance as we start to close up on some of that business that's out there in front of us.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then on the commodities side a couple of related questions.
First on the $150 million of EBITDA guidance change relating to commodity price deck can you roughly split that between Geismar olefins and all other and elaborate on what you're seeing as drivers right now for olefins crack spreads into 2016? And are you still seeing or expecting at least a couple cent premium to Belvieu there? And then the final thing on new projects relating to commodity issues any updates on PDH or Geismar 2? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Boy that was a lot of questions Craig.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Trying to digest them all here.
I can take the  of the $150 million change in commodities since our February  we issued that guidance on February based on the price outlook at that time I'd say something under $60 million was olefins and the balance was NGL margins and related curtailments.
Inc.</span></strong> I got you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'd say that's certainly the big numbers was on the NGL piece and then the Geismar piece which is really behind us now.
The PDH and Geismar 2  great progress really on both of those projects and both in terms of putting the finishing touches on the contract for the polypropylene at PDH and we do expect to be bringing that forward here in August before the board for further consideration on that project.
But things are actually improving on that project in terms of  as we've started to getting quotes for a lot of the big equipment for that project.
So we're really excited about the way that's going right now.
On Geismar 2 very strong interest from two parties that we had narrowed that down to.
And I would say we're into some pretty serious diligence now with one party in particular at this point and I think very serious interest on their part and our part in terms of going ahead with the Geismar 2 project.
So really great progress on both fronts there.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And I'm sorry for the barrage at you.
The one additional item I just noticed that with 2015 that coming down but 2016 unchanged I think there was over a 30% increase in expected crack spreads and I was wondering if you could give some additional color around drivers that you're seeing in the 2016 at Geismar.
Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> Yeah I think there are a couple of things.
Let me take that one third in line.
First I'd like to just add to the earlier answer that I gave that that power outage that we faced was related to a utility power failure to our plant so that was not inside our plant.
It was rather the supply to the plant that took the plant down totally unexpectedly in a very significant severe manner.
Second you had asked about premium to Belvieu I believe.
And now with Evangeline running with us running that premium has essentially fallen back to more normal levels in the $0.01 or $0.02 range though remember that Louisiana is a thinly traded market and so you don't get every day visibility into what that premium is.
Also remember that our customers have a call on about 80% of our production.
So we have only available to us about 20% sell into the spot market and coming through the second quarter certainly through June and in July we have been satisfying our full contract requirements to our customers so selling essentially all of our volume in that contract.
There've been some de minimis volumes that we have sold into the spot market only when there were some discontinuities between what our customers needed and what we were able to produce.
And now that I've gotten through those two somehow I've lost track of what the third question was.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It was the 30% increase in crack spread.
Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> The 30% increase in crack spread.
Thanks.
Well looking at this year I think earlier in the year we were saying that we saw inventories rather low in ethylene and that we could expect some demand growth and we could expect perhaps some disruptions in supply that might drive to a tightness in ethylene that would help improve that situation.
We haven't seen that materialize quite as yet in this year but certainly as time passes into next year and subsequent years up until the time when the new crackers come on you would expect that continued demand growth and of course recoveries of international markets and the like that might be hampering volumes these days would result in some strengthening opportunities for margin growth.
And I think that's what we see behind the future there.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thank you very much.
We'll go next to Ross Payne of Wells Fargo.
How are you doing gentlemen? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Couple of quick questions.
Could we get a rough debt number or debt number for WMB or WPZ? And secondarily thanks for the guidance on the fee-based from 2005 (sic) [2015] to 2017.
Can you give us a rough estimate of what fee-based is currently for the company? And then third I was going through your press release.
Can you talk about the profits that the Geismar is currently generating or what it was maybe in the second quarter? Thanks.
Hey Ross.
This is Don Chappel.
The debt numbers are in the 10-Q that we filed this morning.
I'll try to grab something real quick here for you.
But again we filed the Williams and Williams Partners 10-Q this morning.
All that detail is out there.
Great.
Long term debt this is at Williams $21.285 billion.
Okay great.
I'll check the Q on that.
Yeah great.
Thank you.
And on the fee-based? The fee-based percentage I think for this quarter and for 2015 is going to be in excess of 90%.
I think somewhere in the 92% range given that Geismar was down for a portion of the year and kind of where commodities are.
We're estimating or forecasting the fee-based percentage to be just a little below that over the three-year period 2015 through 2017 is about 89%.
Okay.
And the Geismar profits? I don't think we've disclosed the specific Geismar profits but we did indicate that there was $50 million of gross margin for the quarter.
Okay.
All right.
When I'm looking at the press release and it goes over the Geismar incident adjustment of the negative $126 million how do I think about that? That was business interruption and insurance proceeds.
Again a year ago the plant was down but we had business interruption insurance.
And we estimated that during the second quarter of last year that we had a right to about $122 million.
Since that date we've collected -- we have a $500 million policy.
We had losses property losses approaching $70 million with just a little over $430 million I believe of BI.
We've collected more than $420 million.
We have a claim for $20 million that's open that's still being negotiated with an insurer but again the vast majority of our insurance claim has now been paid.
Okay.
Looking at this I mean it looked like it was $96 million in the second quarter 2014 and then it swung to a negative $126 million for the second quarter of 2015 so.
Again there's a difference between GAAP and adjusted.
So for GAAP for financial statement purposes we record the cash the insurance proceeds when we have a signed settlement agreement with the insurers or we actually receive the cash.
For adjusted earnings we in effect accrued it based on our expectation of collection.
John Dearborn from Investor Relations can walk you through the...
John Porter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> John Porter.
John Porter excuse me.
John Porter in our IR shop can walk you through the GAAP to non-GAAP numbers.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just one more do you guys know the timing of when your strategic review will be complete? Thanks.
There is no timing announced.
All right.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay thanks very much Ross.
We'll go next to Timm Schneider of Evercore.
Hey good morning guys.
Hey Alan when we spoke in April I think you were saying this was the earliest time you guys had locked up all of your Conway storage and rail racks for some of the Northeast NGLs.
Obviously if you look at some of the E&amp;P numbers realizations were pretty awful.
I was just wondering how you guys see that shake out as we get into the shoulder season of 2016 right Q2 Q3 without really any incremental export capacity slated to come on until the end of that year and what impact that's going to have? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Timm great question and certainly one that a lot of people should be paying attention to obviously.
I do think that even though the export capacity not any new export capacity coming on there is as you know that hasn't been fully utilized.
And I think the limitation there has been on ships having the capacity to carry that out.
So I think that's kind of the next bottleneck if you will for the industry to face.
And so I think keeping a close eye on the availability of the shipping capacity to get out of the exports is probably the next thing to keep our eye on in terms of opening the markets up.
But other than that I don't really see much changing here domestically in terms of either storage capacity or rail loading capacity.
I would say everything that can move and store NGLs right now is in full utilization and building up behind the next bottleneck which as I mentioned in this case is the export capacity getting the shipping capacity available to them.
So I think that's the next thing to keep our eyes on here in the shoulder month.
But certainly we don't see any near-term big relief here.
I think we're probably three to four months out before we start to seize a lot of that capacity out there (56:35).
Okay.
And then my follow-up is you obviously saw a large proposed merger transaction up in the Northeast with two of your competitors.
From your standpoint how does that change the competitive landscape in the Northeast in terms of competing for projects and whatnot how do you guys see that from your perspective? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I don't really expect a whole lot of change.
I think from our perspective we're pretty excited to see Marathon bringing their business and they've always had an interest and are very well positioned to take care of lot of the heavies and the condensate in the area.
And so we're really excited to have them engaged in bringing takeaway solutions to the area.
So I would say that's kind of the net positive out of it.
In terms of competition I think we've got such major acreage dedications already to us and it's a matter of getting the takeaway capacity coming online for the Northeast and now even for the Marcellus and the dry Utica.
And I think that will be really the drivers there is that capacity coming online and then we will be in a position to provide a lot of supply infrastructure to handle that as those markets open up in the future.
So I really see that as really the determinant up there more than the competitive landscape.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
We will go next to Sharon Lui of Wells Fargo.
Hi good morning.
Just a quick question for John.
Perhaps maybe you can just talk about your outlook for NGL pricing up in Canada and how maybe the recent weakness could impact I guess the returns of some projects coming on in the back half of this year? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> Yeah it's a great question.
And perhaps I can take it on by giving a little bit of background on how we make money there.
And I think it's important for us all to remember that we make money on the spreads between gas and what is substantially an olefin stream.
So we make money between gas and propylene and gas and uplift.
And of course we're protected on core price on our ethylene production up there in Canada.
And so really the substantive exposure that we face that I think  and certainly causes us concern is on the NGL portion or the (59:20) portion of that production.
And certainly today propane is not returning a cheap value.
And so therefore it's the one product that is not making money for us up in the Canadian pocket right now.
And so we're just looking for opportunities where we might be able to mitigate that situation.
We haven't found it yet.
So I don't have a clear solution for you yet but we have found a way to deal with the heavier part of the barrel.
It's making money now and all the rest of the parts of the barrel are making money.
And so if you think about the pocket in that way I think you'll understand that we're still contributing income in Canada despite the NGL difficulty.
One last point though and that is the stranded (1:00:13) nature of that propane up in Alberta does substantiate our thesis on why we think the PDH and the creation of a demand center (1:00:22) in Canada creates a value-added project and a sustainably advantage project into the future.
Do you see any potential catalyst that would decrease that propane oversupply in Canada? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> Well if you mean by catalyst a process that uses a catalyst to convert the propane into something else? I'm sorry.
Or maybe a project that would alleviate the oversupply situation up in Canada like any drivers? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> The only thing that we occasionally seek through is whether (1:01:05) would ever reverse but right now the (1:01:07) is needed up in Canada and so in the absence of another large pipeline that traverses rather long distances to move the propane to the Midwest or somewhere else in the United States I think it's very hard to imagine something that's going to alleviate the situation on propane.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would just say Sharon and certainly we've got our eyes on that and as John mentioned there are ways that we're looking to help mitigate that.
And part of that is to getting the propane back into the fuel markets.
So if you think about that where there are big straddle plants that are extracting propane our facility extracting propane the simple way is to get those propane barrels back into the gas stream where they came from in the first place in the most part and I think you'll see moves on people's parts to start to get a lot of that propane back into those streams.
Okay.
And I guess just a follow-up how should we think about the near-term returns on the Horizon investment? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services Williams</span></strong> Well in the near-term while NGL prices are still where they are I'd suspect they're probably going to fall a little bit short of where we would expect long-term returns to be.
I think on a volume perspective think of Horizon as being about a third of what we're doing (1:02:37) today.
So I think that gives you a view on both the margin and the kind of volume.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So just to remind you though on that Sharon the bulk of the income on that asset really comes off the propylene and the butylene and then the ethane which has the fee-based contract or the floor (1:02:59) contract for the ethane already embedded which gives us a margin on the ethane and ethylene.
So that's really where the bulk of the value comes from and the propane stream even though it's very depressed right now certainly has not been and isn't expected to be a big contributor to value in the future.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And our final question in the queue comes from Chris Sighinolfi of Jefferies.
Hey.
Good morning Alan.
Thanks for the color this morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
I have a few questions.
I promise to be quick.
First following on Shneur's inquiry about the relationship with Chesapeake I'm just wondering  you were speaking specifically or inquiring specifically about the MVCs.
I'm just curious sort of more broadly about the counterparty exposure you had to them.
There's obviously been some visible setbacks for them over the last couple of months.
So I guess within the context of that have you tempered at all your expectations for the cost of service growth in the Northeast? I know your guidance in aggregate remained unchanged 2016 to 2018 but wondering if there was any movement within that on cost of service efforts given CapEx headwinds potentially? And then related any recent conversations with them about the midstream contracts you have with them any effort to renegotiate do you see that as a risk? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll take a stab at the broad relationship and the contract discussions and I'll ask Bob Purgason to speak to the cost of service expectations in the Northeast and broadly.
First of all on a broad level I'll just tell you we continue to enjoy very good relationship with Chesapeake.
We're very impressed with their responsiveness to the situation that they're in.
And I can tell you that they continue to work hard.
Obviously they announced an asset sale in the quarter.
And they continue to look for opportunities and we continue to be constructive in working with them where we can on that.
And I would just tell you again I remain very impressed and very confident in their actions to put themselves in a position to have the right capital focused on the right assets.
And I'm confident that they're going to be able to do that.
And in terms of restructuring certainly they take the lead on that and we try to provide support and find win-win ways where they can add volumes that help offset some of those obligations and that's the kind of things that we're looking at.
And I'm not going to get ahead of them on that but I would just tell you we're very excited about some of the new opportunities that we can help with where they can bring on new volumes up against existing obligations.
And with that I'll have Bob try to take the cost of service question.
Access Operating Area</span></strong> Yeah.
Just in terms of our cost of service growth there in the Northeast it's really in our Marcellus north area where we're adding some compression to continue to support the development there.
I'd note that's an area where the cost of service contracts are delivering we'll call it great market fees.
You noticed we had a fee reduction in the first quarter and it was related some  a part of it was the fee reduction in that north area due to the high volumes that drive that fee lower.
So we continue to see that.
And then our Utica area which is cost of services well continuing to expand compression there to support really great wet Utica results that you're also seeing show up in our UEO OVM volumes.
So no we still see particularly those Northeast contracts as good strong pieces of our portfolio and also look to be good in Chesapeake's activity as well.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot for that color.
I guess sticking on the Northeast and this is sort of a follow-up to Craig's question about the monster dry gas Utica wells we've seen recently.
From a gathering perspective can you address those types of wells or pads with the same type of infrastructure you've been using? Or is it a concentrated magnitude of production from those wells is going to alter how you have to service them and does that have any ramifications on either the type of return or the profile of return you might see gathering for such well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would just say that certainly already having the right-of-way and the infrastructure in the area as you know in a lot of our OVM area we have a loop system so we have one line that we can dedicate to rich service and one line that we can dedicate to lean service.
Having said that the kind of size of some of these wells that are being hit are obviously going to require some massive expansion of those systems.
And I will just tell you that having the right-of-way established and having the interconnect into multiple takeaway pipelines is going to be what is valuable.
And that's exactly how we're positioning ourselves out there.
But I would just  if you think about it an existing pad up there is almost like  and sometimes I think it's even more so the case it's almost like an offshore platform because the real estate up there getting a flat spot and having a road into it and having pipelines into it in that very difficult terrain up there is really a precious piece of real estate.
And so that's where you'll see the development of a lot of that Utica drive particularly in the northern part of West Virginia there.
And so we have the pipelines into those locations and the right-of-way into those locations.
And I think we'll be very successful in continuing to pick up those volumes as they come on there.
But you're right the existing infrastructure  to the degree that we get takeaway capacity established out of the area and by that I mean long haul pipeline long-haul interstate pipelines established in the area the existing infrastructure would be overwhelmed if the producers started going after drilling plan in those areas because there is so much productivity available from those areas.
Obviously though the productivity is going to have to stay in check with demand in the market.
Access Operating Area</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it's a great example of where Access legacy and The Williams fit together right because this initial wave of development is going to be used in existing plumbing to the extent that we've got proximal pipelines and/or rights-of-way we can give near-term service.
And then we can wait for this big takeaway opportunity which is going to create a whole new wave of large infrastructure investment to meet these big wells.
So I think we're positioned well to capture that business and give near-term service to those who want to produce dry wells given their economics.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think one of the interesting elements of all this big Utica dry gas that may or may not be obvious at this point is that it really is going to provide a lot of blending capacity into the gas pipelines.
And so if you think about this concern about the ethane recoveries and ethane takeaway all of this big dry gas really provides a lot more capacity to put ethane into the long haul pipeline and still meet gas specs.
And ultimately what that means is it somewhat it helps solve the storage problem or ethane feed into some of the big crackers that are being developed there because in effect the gas pipelines become that storage element and if there's a problem with the cracker the ethane just goes into the gas stream but still stays on spec.
So that's actually one of the really interesting developments from our perspective coming out of this big Utica dry volumes that we're seeing show up.
That's a great point Alan.
I guess my final question.
You mentioned takeaway from the basin and so I just wanted to follow-up with you quickly on Constitution.
I think at the time of your Analyst Day you were waiting or hopeful for a New York DEC permit in June.
I know that didn't happen but I'm just curious for an update on where the regulatory process for that project stands? I realize it's not a huge CapEx item for you in the greater context but when we think about the effect on the basin takeaway just curious for an update.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'd just tell you we've been working very closely with the DEC and are excited and very optimistic about where we stand and would hope to see a permit very soon.
Is there a point at which  does it have a cascade? Is there a point at which it has a cascading effect on the timeline that you've put forth for in-service or are we anywhere near that in your mind? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think right now we feel good about the date that we put out there for getting that finished by the end of 2016 and so I think right now we feel pretty confident in that and feel like we've got a good path to get that done.
So there're certainly some tight windows that will be pushing through here and we hope in the very near future.
But we remain confident as we see here today in that.
Great.
I appreciate your time.
Thanks again for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session for today.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Alan Armstrong for any additional or closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Well thank you all very much for joining us today.
Really tremendous amount of fee-based revenue growth that's coming on excited to have the Geismar expansion behind us and having that up and running and really excited about the way the execution is going on these major projects that are out in front of us and we're just going to continue to march our fee-based revenue growth up 17% in the first quarter growth 17% here in the second-quarter growth and we're just going to continue to see a big march as these projects come on.
So I appreciate your involvement in the company and we look forward to updating you on our shareholder value propositions as that becomes available.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate everyone's participation today.
Good day everyone and welcome to The Williams/Williams Partners Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good morning and thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website williams.com.
These items include yesterday's press releases and related investor materials including the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily.
Our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to questions.
And we also have the five leaders of Williams' operating areas with us.
Walter Bennett leads the West; John Dearborn leads NGL and Petchem Services; Rory Miller leads Atlantic-Gulf; Bob Purgason leads Access Midstream; and Jim Scheel leads Northeast G&amp;P.
In our presentation materials you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to General Accepted Accounting Principles.
These reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
With that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Great.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thanks for being on the call with this early this morning.
Before we discuss our third quarter results I'd like to provide a brief update on the transaction we announced with Energy Transfer on September 28.
We are on the path to completion and we expect to file the proxy statement soon.
The transaction will then be subject to SEC review and regulatory approval and is expected to close in the first half of 2016.
With that I want to reiterate that the focus of today's call is going to be on our financial and operational results for the third quarter.
And I ask that you please keep your questions focused on our results and I want to thank you in advance for your cooperation on that.
So we are going to hold tight to that.
And so now just some brief thoughts on the fundamentals relevant to the third quarter and the industry in general.
Overall I have to say it really was a great third quarter for us from an operational performance perspective a project delivery perspective and progress towards future growth.
We remain very focused on execution on cost management and taking advantage of the great asset positioning that our strategy has delivered and I think this focus really showed up here in the third quarter.
Importantly despite the fundamental pressures on our industry from dramatically lower commodity prices we've continued with very substantial growth in our adjusted EBITDA and DCF so really really showing the strength as we continue to see prices erode and some really dramatically low NGL prices in the quarter but our strategy of continuing to invest in these big fee-based projects is really starting to overwhelm those lower prices.
And so that's not to say we aren't feeling some of the effects of the low commodity prices directly in our commodity margins and indirectly via the volume shut in on some of our gathering systems particularly in the Northeast.
However because of our unique position we continue to deliver strong results and we see strong growth ahead from our projects especially on the demand or market side of our business as the U.S.
industries and the international markets look to take advantage of North America's abundant and low-cost natural gas supplies.
The North American producers continue to really amaze us and continue to innovate and deliver production at costs levels that no one thought was possible even a year ago and while this has led to painfully over-supplied markets in the short-term it continues to lead the way towards growing demand and expanding prosperous markets for natural gas and natural gas derivatives.
And so over the long-term we think we're really seeing a supply-led expansion and I know that people are getting impatient about that but I can assure you as you look through our backlog of projects it's very evident to us that that capital is going in place to pave the way for growing demand.
So the current barrier to the success that we speak of and look forward to really is the low-cost access to these expanding markets and that's in the way of pipelines primarily but also other infrastructure required.
And we are certainly building out this capacity it is not just important for Williams but for the industry and it's also important for the North American economy.
And we really are very excited to be taking on these important challenges at Williams and see it as a critical next role in really delivering the tremendous value that the North American producers have developed via their innovation and continue the learnings in developing our low-cost resources here in the U.S.
So with that let's move on to slide two.
Overall our strong third quarter results underscore the effectiveness of our strategy to connect the best natural gas supply to the best markets with all this fee-based infrastructure we continue to invest in.
This accounted for more than 90% of our gross margin during the quarter and will continue to be that for quite some time.
And the tremendous efforts by our teams to deliver the continuous string of large-scale infrastructure projects required to realize the fruits of the strategy.
Once again we showed our ability to deliver substantial growth in EBITDA and DCF despite much lower commodity prices; and in fact four segments of our five segments realized substantial growth and our fee-based revenue which was up over $200 million in the quarter overwhelmed the dramatic drop in commodity margins from the third quarter of 2014.
Additionally our DCF of $754 million delivered a 1.04 coverage and that's even without recognizing the benefit of the $209 million IDR waiver for the quarter that was associated with the WPZ/WMB merger termination.
So let me now drill into the drivers for this 21% improvement in EBITDA for the third quarter of 2015 to the third quarter of 2014 comparison.
First of all big congratulations to our Atlanta-Gulf team who delivered $414 million for the quarter up 53%.
Even more impressive was that this was in the face of dramatically lower NGL margins in the Gulf Coast and the drivers for this strong performance were a lot of projects continuing that were brought on earlier in the year things like Gulfstar One Discovery's Keathley Canyon Connector but also a full quarter on new Transco projects including Rockaway Lateral in New York.
In addition to that the team also delivered a new project during the third quarter which was the first phase of the Virginia Southside lateral which our team delivered on time; and we also were able to get some early revenues from the mainline services associated with the Leidy Southeast project and that we brought in those revenues well ahead of schedule.
Of course the Leidy Southeast lateral is not yet online but the mainline portion for gas flowing from that lateral we were able to bring some of that on early.
So great job by both our commercial team and our project teams in continuing to deliver (08:32) on that.
And as you'll see on the next page you'll see a string of projects that Atlantic-Gulf continues to grow as we provide capacity for the demand side of this growing natural gas market.
At the Access level $351 million of adjusted EBITDA.
That was up 9% on  this is really driven on fee-based revenue growth of course and we saw both the mix of volume growth and contractual benefits across multiple areas provide steady growth in EBITDA despite challenging commodity prices in those basins as well.
Specifically the increase in adjusted EBITDA between 2014 and 2015 was driven by higher fee-based volumes and contractual support from the minimum volume commitment agreements as well as the increased ownership interest in the Utica East Ohio Midstream.
And so as you'll recall we transacted on that earlier in the year and so that delivered here for us in the third quarter as we stepped that up.
And this was despite that area being impacted by very low commodity prices in this basin for both gas and NGLs.
And so we did see some shut-ins in that area that were fairly significant in the third quarter but we've seen a lot of that production return to service now headed into the fourth quarter.
In the Northeast G&amp;P $87 million up 28% also on higher fee-based revenue and this certainly during the quarter  a few things to note here price-related shut-ins from our producers did dramatically impact the fee-based revenue growth on our gathering volumes but this  we still managed to grow those volumes by 13% despite some very large shut-ins in the quarter.
And as well our volumes processed.
So the inlet volumes to our (10:34) processing plants actually grew by over 40% and NGL production was up 2.5 times last year's production; thanks to new processing facilities that were installed in the first quarter at OVM.
Of course the NGL &amp; Petchem I was glad to see a solid quarter of operations from the expanded Geismar plant and the team hit some very impressive production levels during the quarter as they really started to learn what they could do with the new facility there but unfortunately the ethylene margins that we realized during the quarter were much lower than we had expected earlier.
But again from an operational perspective some nice performance coming from the team there.
Canada also had strong production levels with propylene sales being up 29% but also suffered weak pricing in the propylene area there as well.
The NGL services side had a strong operating quarter as well.
And so when we speak of that that's our NGL transportation and storage piece that's in our (11:40) NGL &amp; Petchem unit.
And actually saw the NGL transport volumes on our Overland Pass Pipeline go up by 59%.
So overall a big step up in adjusted EBITDA from $22 million to up to $85 million for this business unit in the quarter.
And then finally while the West saw a 28% decline in its adjusted EBITDA to $161 million really driven by dramatically lower NGL margins it really was a good operating quarter in terms of the team doing everything they could to deliver the best numbers.
And we really saw that show up in the way of lower operating costs and the team was able to hold our fee-based service revenues flat versus third quarter of 2014.
And so really really great effort by the teams out there to keep the volumes continuing to flow out there and continue to reduce our costs.
The NGL unit margins that we realized in the West actually were at a 10-year low as we saw NGL  sorry we saw NGL sales fall by over $70 million this year in the 3Q versus 3Q comparison.
Total volumes on Northwest Pipeline were up 14% and this is due to both the increased use of natural gas for power generation in the Northwestern states as well as some basis differential spreads that were existing between prices like ACO (13:21) and the Western states.
So really a good sign.
I'll tell you (13:23) when we see volumes pick up even though they're interruptible and people taking use of the capacity when you see that kind of increase in our throughput volumes on the system that's always a good sign for long-term firm (13:35) sales which is really where we make our money on a pipe like that.
So moving on to slide three here just a picture here of the continued delivery of projects and great job of our team continuing to put these projects into service.
We said back in the first half of the year that the demand side of the natural gas market is driving our capital investments and I want to touch on some of these projects here.
First of all the Transco Virginia Southside as I mentioned earlier was placed into service in September of 2015 and of course we look forward in the fourth quarter here to see the benefit of a full quarter there rather than just the one month.
I also would just note there really impressive execution by our team who really had some very difficult obstacles to overcome in the construction in that area and I won't bore you with all of the details but I would just say that the ability to deliver that on schedule given some of the obstacles that the team faced there was very impressive and I want to recognize the great efforts there.
On Gulfstar One we continue to see strong fee-based contributions to EBITDA.
Lots of work going on right now out on that platform to tie back the Gunflint prospect and to further improve production from the existing completed wells.
On the  moving to the Discovery facilities continue high utilization on the KCC system.
We continue to see record volumes on that system and the team is doing everything they can to maximize throughput because there is a lot of throughput wanting to get through that system right now.
And as well we're seeing a lot of exciting growth on the horizon for this investment as well.
And so really excited about the future for Discovery out there both in the current and in the future.
On the Northeast G&amp;P on our gathering processing in the Northeast; we did execute the Pennant JV.
And just to give you a little bit of color on that.
That's a joint venture that really allowed us to take advantage of some large dedications that we had up in the area and that were some legacy acreage dedicated into that (15:59) we had up there and we were able to combine those acreage dedications with some players that already had some flowing production in the area as well as already had a lot of the capital invested in some new infrastructure up there.
So really excited about the work that our team did there to take advantage of our acreage dedication and find a way to work with partners in the area.
That's a very capital efficient way for us to monetize some of those big acreage dedications up there in Northwest Pennsylvania and Northeast Ohio.
On the dry Utica side of course we announced a significant increase in the dry Utica acreage from Chesapeake in the quarter.
But we also are really excited to see some significant dry Utica wells showing up in the OVM area so right there just to the East of the Ohio River right in our backyard there in OVM and really seeing some impressive wells that are being completed on the same pads that were earlier developed for the Marcellus-rich area and really this is a common story here for the Northeast; just tremendous resource potential up there and an ability to produce a lot of gas at very low cost.
But we sit here and  as a whole industry  and really are anxious to see the new takeaway into the structure (17:17) goes into service.
And I'll just tell you there is a lot of growth potential for the future up here and really just dependent  not really on improved prices from where we are today really just access to those markets both on the gas and the NGL side.
So really really excited to see the opportunities continue and the growth for the future up here just continues to expand its horizon for us.
On the Haynesville the 2016 and 2017 MVC cash flows were unchanged via our contract renegotiation with Chesapeake and we were able to extend our dedication through 2035 and also brought in a very substantial additional drilling commitment which will drive those increased volumes beyond the end of the MVC obligations there in 2017.
So great job.
I know there has been a lot of debate out there.
But I'll tell you from my perspective any time we can hold our current cash flows  commitment to cash flows via those MVCs and expand the Horizon and help a customer continue to grow for the future and us enjoy that growth with them I think that is a win-win.
I'm really proud of the team and very excited to continue to work with Chesapeake on finding ways that are mutually beneficial to our organizations.
At Geismar the expanded plant as I mentioned earlier is meeting our production expectations and it actually  even though some very hot periods will tend to lower our throughput capability we hit some pretty impressive numbers relative to our expectation in production for the quarter and expect to see that continue here into the fourth quarter.
We also announced the fee-based off-take contract that we executed for the Alberta PDH facility and we are moving to the next phase of project development and we do expect the FID or the final investment decision in the third quarter of 2016.
But I would tell you a lot of great work going on there by the teams and really it's hard work to make sure we know (19:42) exactly what our estimate is going to be and that we execute that project in a flawless manner.
So a lot of time and care being taken on the front end to get that right exactly how we ought to be taking on a big project like that.
In addition looking forward I want to touch on just a few projects that are going to come on later this year.
First of all the Transco Leidy Southeast expansion.
Really important not just for the cash flows that that project will deliver but as well because it's going to provide additional gas takeaway of about 525 million a day coming out that'll be in service in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Our Canadian Offgas Processing project a project we refer to as Horizon; we expect that to be mechanically complete here in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We don't expect any meaningful cash flow from this asset until first quarter of 2016 as we'll be starting this up in the dead of winter up in Fort McMurray Alberta; and if you've ever been up there in that part of the year you know what I am talking about.
So great job by the teams really trying to push through to get that project completed and we are looking forward to bringing that big project on line and into service well during 2016.
And then finally our Kodiak tieback to our Devils Tower platform is expected to come on in the fourth quarter of 2015.
And a lot of times this gets left off of our project list just because we're not spending the capital on that so it doesn't show up as a major project where we're being reimbursed what capital we are spending I should say.
But it is a very meaningful additional to our cash flow.
And so it really is an exciting project for us and continues to show that our deepwater strategy is alive and well with Devils Tower moving into its I guess 12th or 13th year now of operation.
Once again  I think there is a very extensive list and I'm proud of our teams for the progress they continue to make and the growth they're delivering and Williams really does have a truly unique position in terms of our asset footprint and the kind of projects that we continue to string together.
Moving on to slide four you can see here a list of demand-driven projects.
It is very significant.
So while most of the attention in the industry for the past year or so has been focused on prices production curtailments and shut-ins; we've really been focused on serving the growing demand side for natural gas and we expect to see that continue.
And as you can see from this chart much of our growth potential for the future is on the demand side of the business.
We think that's critical to expand out into those key markets and we're really pleased to be positioned the way we are.
Our focus is especially important in the Northeast where we've got many producers up there that are really really critical to them to get access to those markets and we take those obligations very serious to get those developed and working hard to overcome continued regulatory and political hurdles that exist in getting all this big infrastructure in place up there.
And so in the Northeast while we as I mentioned earlier we did have quite a bit of gas shut-in in the third quarter it really is a great opportunity for us as we continue to invest out.
In fact if we touch where we're (23:31) invested in in these assets in the Northeast we're exposed to these assets that gather nearly a third of all the gas being produced up there.
And so as we are able to develop our own infrastructure for takeaway as well as peers in the industry we're going to see some tremendous growth that does not depend on additional drilling rigs because there's  not only is there a lot of gas shut-in for economic reasons up there today we also have a tremendous amount of drilled and uncompleted wells and a big inventory of that that again is just waiting on the right price signals not from the Henry Hub kind of natural gas prices but they are locally in the area.
So we're excited to be working to get our customers exposed in that area.
Moving on to slide five to sum up some of the things that we went over today.
I would reiterate that the quarter's results were a direct reflection of our strategy to uniquely position Williams to connect the very best natural gas supplies to the very best markets and I really think it's hard for anybody else to make that claim in terms of how we're positioned in the natural gas market there.
Very unique in that regard and we've worked hard to get there.
The fact that we're delivering record quarterly DCF and record adjusted EBITDA through some of the tough headwinds for the industry is a real testament to the teams at Williams that are out there every day executing on our plan working hard to deliver results for our shareholders.
And we remain very focused on executing against our natural gas focused strategy and are very pleased with the results we've delivered here in the third quarter.
And importantly our backlog of projects continues to grow as we see the demand side of the natural gas story continue to develop.
Sustainable low-cost reserves only serve to fuel the story of demand growth and we're excited to be a part of what will be a tremendous growth of the future.
So with that we'll move to the Q&amp;A session.
And I'd just like to remind everyone that the purpose of today's call is to discuss our operational and financial results for the third quarter of 2015 and I ask that you please limit your questions to these topics.
And I want to thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation on this.
I know there's a lot of interest in understanding the transaction but we're going to be limiting our comments today to the Williams operations and our performance here for the third quarter and drivers for the future.
So with that we'll turn it over to questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Brandon Blossman of Tudor Pickering Holt Company (sic) [Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.] (26:49) Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Alan; everyone.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Let's see here.
There is quite a bit.
I guess just a little bit of bookkeeping; in terms of project timing in the Northeast any incremental color on Constitution and getting that kicked off? Sure.
We've gotten through all the work with DEQ with New York and that was kind of our final barrier up there.
We are working with the Governor's Office to understand what  the cause of delay of getting that permit out but that is kind of the final issue that we're waiting on.
And so we're working to understand that.
A lot of great work going on by the teams there to get the  past the requirement for the New York DEC (27:46) but we think we've gotten there.
So really just up against getting the Governor's Office to sign off on that and then we'll be in a position to get that done for the fourth quarter of 2016.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> And so still on track for that timeline? Yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> The new Edmonton PDH facility any color in terms of just how competitive that market is? Obviously that's a much needed project in that region.
Are there other folks competing for similar projects there? And just across your footprint do other PDH units make sense and what's the competitive landscape for those types of projects? Yeah.
Great question.
Well I'd tell you that that PDH project is very very unique from our perspective and that it's taking advantage of very low-cost propylene that's already in the area as well as the propylene that we would make with the new PDH facility.
And so we for quite some time wanted to see polypropylene unit and downstream derivatives be developed in the area because it's just a logistics game.
So today a lot of that propylene is going into the Gulf Coast being converted into various derivatives in particularly polypropylene and then being railed back up into the Midwest market.
And so this project takes advantage of that low-cost propane there in the basin and low-cost propylene that comes directly off of those big delayed cokers in the oil sands and then just transports it in directly into those Midwest markets and also will have access to international market out of places like Port of Vancouver.
So really excited to be teamed up with the Goradia Capital Group and a huge marketer of derivative projects  derivative products around the world and really excited to have them as a partner there.
And I would tell you the next available project to us is clearly a PDH 2 facility there and they're very interested in that and we certainly have plenty of product as we continue to expand our upstreams oil sands operations we've got a lot of propylene that we want to find a better home for than having to be railed into the Gulf Coast.
So I would just tell you it really is a logistics play for us.
We're not depending on the kind of propane basis differential that we've been living on up there but we do expect the propane to be long there in Canada for quite some time and we really look to all kinds of alternatives for other uses of the propane and other logistics for the propane and really excited PDH is a great answer up there especially with somebody coming  partnering with us to develop the derivative business for us.
So exciting opportunity not just for us but really for the province of Alberta and allows them to take advantage of their very low-cost resources in that basin as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Awesome.
Got it.
Thank you.
Very interesting.
Thank you very much.
(31:17) Thank you.
The next question comes from Christine Cho of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question has to do with CapEx; year-to-date it's been trending a lot lower than the guidance we got five months ago.
And I'm guessing most of it is due to lower than expected spending in the Northeast and for the Access assets.
Is the run rate of spending that we've seen for the first three quarters a good indicator for what to expect in fourth quarter? And how much of the spending would you say has been delayed? And is this more of a timing thing into 2016? Or is some of this stuff indefinitely postponed until pricing signals improve like you've mentioned? Christine I would actually say  I'll separate that.
The maintenance capital piece a number of drivers on that but we still have a lot of maintenance capital work out in front of us.
And just so you know kind of how we forecast that a lot of that maintenance capital is invested in the inspection and improvement of our pipeline system.
And so we go through the smart pigging process and we basically have to estimate the number of repairs or anomalies that we'll find when we do that inspection; and so that's how we do that.
When we don't have as many anomalies show up or as many repairs required then we don't have as much maintenance capital to spend.
And so we still have quite a bit of inspection in front of us for the balance of the year and we would expect that maintenance capital continue to be pretty strong going into the fourth quarter.
But clearly it's a matter of us estimating at the first of the year (33:07) the amount of work we think we're going to have.
And when we don't find those anomalies then that's the money that we put back in our pocket so to speak.
But we have a lot of work out in front of us for both the third quarter and  sorry into the fourth quarter and into 2016.
On the growth capital side that is somewhat driven by things like we would have hoped to have been started on Constitution by now for instance.
And so that is projects like that.
But there are a lot of projects that we actually are seeing lower costs come in.
And so up in the Northeast for instance on our build-out in the Susquehanna County area the capital  the team has been doing a great job up there bringing in costs lower and as well on Atlantic Sunrise; we've continued to enjoy cost savings on that big project as well.
So I would say the delay component is probably -that's built in there is probably Constitution and but there are some pretty substantial savings that are coming through in our numbers as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then on the heels of that it looks like you funded all the CapEx with debt in third quarter.
I'm assuming you couldn't really tap the ATM PZ (34:24) while undergoing a strategic review but how should we think about CapEx funding between now and closing of the deal at the parent? I realize that IDR waivers are going to help some but can you tap the ATM markets given the uncertainty around the future of PZ (34:37)? And even if you could I'm assuming you don't want to when the units are yielding 11% and credit metrics are high.
So how should we think about this? Because I would think that you can't solely lean on the balance sheet for the next six months to nine months.
Christine this is Don.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning.
First I'd say that I think the cost of equity capital is unusually high as a result of the high level of uncertainty regarding the energy industry right now.
We expect that that will settle down and in time here that the market will certainly reward the advantaged companies relative to those that are less advantaged or disadvantaged and cost of capital will make more sense as we move forward.
We have a variety of options ahead of us and the ATM is certainly one of those and we'll be balancing obviously cost and risk and  with a combination of debt and equity to finance and keep WPZ at investment grade ratings.
Inc.</span></strong> Can you go into further detail about alternatives to the ATM? Christine I think the alternatives we have are probably the same as most of the other industry participants.
So I'm not going to delve into the variety of options because there are many but I would say there are a number of options and we'll evaluate all of those in an effort to find the lowest-cost solution while balancing risk and maintaining those ratings.
And again I would say that obviously WPZ has a supportive parent as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Last question from me can you quantify how much gas was shut in in the Northeast for third quarter and for how long? And then also Alan you mentioned that there is a lot of wells waiting on completion.
Can you quantify that behind your acreage as well? Well we're certainly not going to pinpoint anything for  which producers and so forth on that but Jim Scheel if you'll take that question generally? Northeast G&amp;P</span></strong> Sure.
For the third quarter in the what I'd call the dry Northeast we had a significant amount of volume shut in in the Bradford and Susquehanna Counties.
We probably had about 350 million a day in Susquehanna and upwards of 400 million a day in Bradford so pretty significant for the quarter shut-ins.
Again these are all price-related shut-ins.
As you look at the OVM area or the Ohio River Supply Hub we had about 150 shut-ins starting the middle of the quarter.
We'll see that as we look at our reduced volume growth year-over-year in that particular area.
And then we saw shut-ins also of about 300 million in the Utica those have come off.
Those are  we are now flowing at full rate.
In fact this weekend we had a Bcf production at the Utica Supply Hub for the first time.
So right now we have about 900 million shut-ins.
As Alan indicated at the very beginning of the presentation there's a number of other opportunities for us to grow volume besides the shut-in volumes including uncompleted wells and that's true both in the Northeast portion of the Utica as well as  I mean the Marcellus as well as the wet Marcellus in the South.
Those give us a great amount of potential for future volumes.
And as we look at our rig counts we see those holding relatively steady as we go from 2015 to 2016 probably actually seeing a  although it'll probably stay at 15 it could go up by a couple of rigs over the course of that timeframe.
Does that answer your question? Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thank you so much for all the color.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Northeast G&amp;P</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jeremy Tonet of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to follow up on that last point there a little bit if I could.
As far as the 900 shut-in that you talked about is there  do you have any visibility to that coming back online as far as is there certain price points or other kind of regional de-bottlenecks you think that could help get that flowing or any color there would be great? Northeast G&amp;P</span></strong> Alan would you like me to take that one? Please Jim.
Thank you.
Northeast G&amp;P</span></strong> All right.
Sure.
Obviously we've talked about Henry Hub pricing and the basis differential as I think you're aware.
The basis differentials from the Northeast to market pricing have been significant.
Many of our producers have been seeing realized prices in the $0.70 price range and that is pretty significant.
But we have a number of opportunities those of you remember at Analyst Day perhaps there are a number of projects including Constitution Atlantic Sunrise which we're driving that are going to help bring the critical infrastructure we need to really unlock the value of these resources for our producers.
In addition to that you've got (40:19).
You've got Leach.
You've got Mountaineer.
There are a number of industry solutions coming as we look forward into 2016 and 2017 that will help narrow those basis differentials and really unlock value for our producers in order to not only relieve the shut-in gas but also really drive up the production rates.
I think as we see that come on  we've already seen the Leidy expansion which is half a Bcf a day of incremental production coming on line that will help alleviate some of that as we go forward.
But I  although we're not giving guidance as it relates to future year volume growth I would just say as we see that basis differential come down we're  if our producers saw the $2 pricing we would see just tremendous volume growth in the Northeast.
And then finally we need to look at winter pricing and weather-related issues as we go into the winter of this year could also help improve some of those differentials and increase our Northeast volumes.
Great.
Thanks for that.
So it sounds like some of these takeaway solutions probably at least a few quarters off if not a big longer so takeaway won't necessarily help in the near-term but if weather can improve that basis that could potentially be more of a near-term catalyst to help you guys out there? Well I would just add to that.
Thank you for the question.
I would just add to that certainly as Jim mentioned in the near-term we have the Leidy Southeast that's 525 million a day.
So that's pretty substantial.
Because a lot of that Northeast volume is gathered by our system we should expect to see some of that relief parlayed (42:17) directly to our gathering assets up there.
As well I would just say as you mentioned we are in a fairly warm shoulder here and certainly in the cold  not just for the sake of gas prices in the Northeast but as well for NGL prices and particularly propane we'll see some relief during the winter like we always do as that propane is called on to deliver local markets rather than it being transported from the South the way it used to be.
Great.
Thanks for that.
And then just looking at Atlantic-Gulf.
It was quite a nice quarter all take (42:56).
And I was just curious were there any kind of weather or one-time benefits that helped with the quarter there? Or did the quarter really perform in line with your budget and this is kind of a new run rate to think about there? Yeah.
I'll take it.
I don't know if we have Rory on line he may want to provide some more detail but  no it really was just a matter of these big projects really starting to mount up and it really was a matter of having a full quarter.
There really wasn't any seasonal issues.
In fact volumes on Transco on a just a throughput basis were actually a little bit lighter and that's just based on moderate weather relative to last year's moderate weather.
And remember we don't really make the  Transco doesn't get driven up/down (43:43) all that much by seasonal just because all the capacity is sold out firm and so it really doesn't move with throughput (43:53).
But the answer to your question is no there was nothing seasonal about it it's just these big projects are starting to pile up (43:59).
Great.
Thanks.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Craig Shere of Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Congratulations on a nice quarter.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Good to be above one times coverage.
Yes.
It is.
Inc.</span></strong> So on Christine's CapEx question Alan you referenced some cost savings in Susquehanna and at Atlantic Sunrise and I'm just wondering is the bulk of that kind of project-specific with good execution or just across the board are we starting to see industry-wide material and labor cost deflation? Yeah.
I would say in the case of the Susquehanna Supply Hub a couple of things: that team has really worked hard to take advantage of the scale of the installation of our compression and our gathering lines up there and they've worked very hard with the Access team to really pull together our very best thoughts about the way to put infill compression and so that kind of thinking is really starting to pay off for us out there and just a real intense focus on tight project controls and execution.
So without any doubt in my mind in the Susquehanna Supply Hub area it is better execution by our team and years of focusing on better projects execution really starting to pay off up there.
And that really  it's really nice to see the teams bringing the best ideas of both organizations together and really showing up in a tangible way there.
On Atlantic Sunrise I would just say that given the uncertainties that we've seen in putting in these big infrastructure projects  we've built in quite a bit of contingency into these projects and as we deliver those projects we are able to  and start to have some of those things quantified we're able to reduce some of that contingency.
What we also did see is as we announced earlier we did see some lower cost on materials particularly pipe and so it's a little bit of both on Atlantic Sunrise I would argue.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And where is the current state of Geismar utilization? John Dearborn you want to take that please? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services The Williams Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Sure.
I'd be glad to Alan.
Thanks.
And Craig here is where we are.
You'll notice in our results we're reporting that Geismar's running at  we sold about 404 million pounds this quarter.
I'll remind you that that's WPZ's share of Geismar so Geismar actually sold more closer to  or produced closer to 450 million pounds between 450 million pounds and 460 million pounds in this quarter.
We have been running a bit of propane as a feedstock as we bring the plant back into operation.
And so there's about another 18 million pounds of propylene that we've been producing there.
Net-net when you add all that up and make some adjustments and simplifying assumptions so you can calculate a utilization rate we over the quarter ran about an average of 98%.
But let me take you a little further on that.
We're extraordinarily pleased with the Geismar team the Geismar family there because they have been setting production records that are yet in excess of that and we have a bit of upside yet to be found in that.
We have two transformers that are yet scheduled to be replaced in next year that could help the team to further hone or find some increments.
So I would say setting the expectation we have a little bit of upside yet on volume out of Geismar but it's running extraordinarily well here during this quarter and we're really grateful of the team and all the efforts they put into restoring the safe and reliable operations of that unit.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great John.
I know it's been a long road there and it's terrific to hear such a good quarter in terms of execution.
Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services The Williams Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Appreciate your comments.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Last question is the PDH project still somewhere in the neighborhood of perhaps $1 billion investment or almost then  picking up on the answer to Brandon's question is there any thought about the gap in timing that could be for a second PDH project after the first one is online? I'll go ahead and take that real quickly.
As to the costs we're not going to disclose that until we go for our FID on that.
And so really good work done by fine-tuning our estimates.
And we do think it's a good time to be building up there but we've certainly looked around the industry and seen what's going on on several of the other PDH projects and have been careful to take note of that as we continue to refine our estimates up there.
So I would say that we've had kind of two things.
On one hand we've been taking note of some of the project cost across the industry on that; and on the other hand we are seeing favorable conditions in Alberta but we really don't want to book that if you will into our estimate and are hopeful that will provide some upside on our costs there.
So big investment and we'll be providing  we're not going to be providing that number just yet until we get to the FID report at least further along.
On the gap in timing for PDH 2 really good question.
That's a difficult issue because you don't want to change scope in the middle of your project.
I would tell you we have done a lot to make sure that when we do put in the PDH 2 or if we get to that decision that we've got all the space and auxiliary and the planning both on the propylene side and on the polypropylene side thought through so I would just say we're making investment thinking about the future for PDH 2.
And we do think the returns for PDH 2 project would be very attractive but we're really just trying to keep our focus tightly on the scope of PDH 1 to start with.
So I'd just say we're not ready to bring forth a PDH 2 decision just yet but we are planning for the future.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Congratulations again on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Darren Horowitz of Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Alan just one quick question for you.
I realize you're still evaluating like you said that scope of PDH 1 but as we're trying to put some numbers around the profitability of the volume commitments that you announced in addition to obviously the low feedstock cost is the biggest influence at arbitrage (51:44) between the level of currently produced refinery-grade propylene and where you see the demand growth for PGP and the derivatives? And that's the big driver? Or as we start to model this do you see maybe the domestic PGP and derivatives demand significantly increasing or maybe more margin opportunity like you said for international export? I'm just trying to figure out the drivers as to how we should think about the profitability of this plant and possibly PDH 2 over the next couple of years? Yeah.
Good question.
I would say really the party that will be having the lion's share of that exposure obviously would be our partner who would be in the business of marketing that product polypropylene product and certainly that's their expertise.
And I think they're really excited about the markets they think this very low-cost supply can get into.
From our vantage point we're going to be very focused on producing propylene at a low cost and into that contract that is a fee-based contract.
And so that's what we're going to be very focused on.
And while we do have some exposure to the profitability over the time of that primarily our focus is going to be on just driving volumes at a low cost and selling them to a fee-based contract.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Ted Durbin of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I would love to ask about the Appalachian Connector project.
You mentioned the fact that producers are really interested in getting their gas uptown and it seems like a good solution but there are some competing projects that look like they're along the same lines there.
So just wondering if you  what the discussions are with producers their willingness to commit to volumes any range of sort of CapEx or return you might expect on a project like that? Yeah.
I would just say we've been looking at a number of alternatives on that project.
The thing that we  the two drivers I would tell you is this continued demand for natural gas in the Southeast and power generation markets and Transco being so uniquely positioned to be able to expand cheaply out of Station 165 to the South.
And so that's a huge carrot if you will that we have uniquely available to us and we're using that to bring forward the very best project for the market.
So I would just say it's pretty fluid but that's a very  almost immovable opportunity if you will that is uniquely ours and provides us an ability to enter into the very best project but we want to make sure we can maximize that value after all the other investments have been made.
So that's the first piece of that.
Second piece of that I would say is that the kind of volumes that we're seeing from the dry Utica are just continuing to impress us and some tremendous volumes up there that we think are going to  cost is going to continue to lower on and those are the drivers.
So I would just say we think the need for this project will be out there and we think we've got some unique positions that allow us to maximize the profitability when we do decide to invest in that project.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And then a little more housekeeping here but the  now that we have Geismar up and running the operating costs in the NGL &amp; Petchem Services is this sort of a good run rate that we saw in the quarter; or is there any other puts and takes there as we think about it going forward? John you want to take that please? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services The Williams Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Glad to do that.
Great question and thanks for it Ted.
I guess the run rate if I thought about the earnings in the absence of any commodity price volatility the earnings would be a reasonable run rate to look at for the business coming through this quarter.
As I think Alan mentioned Geismar is contributing.
NGL services had a reasonably good quarter for NGL services in Canada with its commodity exposure was probably third on the list there.
As you're looking at the costs we may have experienced some costs in this quarter that are just slightly higher than we would have expected for particularly the Geismar unit but that would be on the order of just a few million dollars so I wouldn't expect the costs to be hugely different going forward as the run rate goes Ted.
Hope that answers your question.
Perfect.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you Ted.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Becca Followill of U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Becca.
(57:17) on the Chesapeake recent negotiation on the Haynesville MVCs can you talk about what happens in a low gas price environment? Do they have an option for an outpay (57:26) or do they need to continue to drill into that agreement? Thank you.
I don't want to be too specific but first of all for 2016 and 2017 as we mentioned earlier our cash flow from the MVC has not changed so there really is no change on that.
And relative to the obligation to drill that is a firm obligation and there isn't any out for pricing (57:51).
And then post 2017? Well 2017 that's when those MVCs ended naturally under the contract so (58:03).
Okay.
Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services The Williams Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> And the design of the drilling obligation was to ensure that the volumes as the 2017 period ended were at a relatively high level.
Yeah.
So that really was really great trade for both of us on that.
We allowed them to bring  combine those fields and allow them to put the best economics to work on their capital but in exchange to that we both got a longer-term and better expectations for volumes and growth (58:39) in the future.
So really (58:40) to find a winner and a loser on that but I would just tell you from my vantage point and believe me we've studied it hard that really really is a win-win.
And it only makes sense that there is because when you're forcing people to make uneconomic capital decisions and you allow them to make better capital decisions you improve the lot (59:00) for both parties.
Thank you.
And then can you talk about discussions with them? Are discussions continuing to maybe renegotiate some other of these contracts? I would just say that we're  we think those were the bulk of the opportunities but we'll continue to look for opportunities if there are growth opportunities.
And so always always happy to work with them great relationship developed there and we're very very thankful to have them as a customer.
We think they're a great operator and have been very fair to work with.
So we'll continue to look for opportunities but we don't have anything immediately to offer on.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Christopher Sighinolfi of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey Alan.
How are you? Good morning.
How are you? I'm great.
Thanks for all the color this morning.
A lot of it's been a hit already but just maybe two questions from me.
The Gulf Connector project looks like the proposed capacity there came down quite a bit from where you were before.
Just wondering on any color you could offer on that project either costing-wise or counterparty-wise your thoughts on initial versus maybe future expansion opportunities on the side then (01:00:23)? Yeah.
Sure.
Thanks for the question.
Rory would you take that question please? Atlantic  Gulf Operating Area</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah.
Good eye there Christopher.
Those numbers did change a little bit quarter-to-quarter.
When we initially had that open season we had requests for much more capacity than we could handle so we moved forward with two parties and one of those parties has stepped out and decided that they are not going to pursue signing the agreements and making the commitment.
So we've reduced the size of the project.
Now that's kind of the bad news.
The good news is some of those  one of the other players that wanted to get in but couldn't is now going to have an opportunity to come into the project.
So the project is going to be a bit smaller but the returns actually go up on the project.
So we still think it's a very high quality project and one we're excited about pursuing.
And kind of as you hinted out in your question that does leave us some additional capacity that we have to work with for new opportunities that we think are going to be out there.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks for the color on that.
I guess switching gears and this is just my second question.
Alan really appreciate the update on shut-ins in the Northeast and your volumetric projections and thoughts around that there.
Was curious if we pivot to the West performance at least as we were thinking about it it was pretty solid mostly on the pricing front this quarter.
Just wondering how you're thinking about producer activities out there; potential volume movements as we move into 2016 out there? Yeah.
Sure.
I'd just say that the producers just continue to find ways to bring in additional production out there as well with very very few rigs running.
But continue to find ways to do that and as well are being very efficient with that.
We are seeing some things that are pretty interesting out there in terms of new development.
But I think our hope for that right now is to just  in the current pricing environment is to keep driving our unit costs low and keep the volumes as flat as possible is kind of our expectation.
The good news about the West relative to what we're seeing in the East is that there's plenty of takeaway capacity plenty of infrastructure the gathering and processing costs are relatively low because it's older infrastructure that was built in a different pricing era.
And so the variable cost or the cash cost to the producer to produce is relatively low.
So we really just haven't  and we've seen very  we've seen a very small almost insignificant amount of ice-related shut-in just like we would in any winter or shoulder month in the West.
But overall it's a very low cost place for variable production.
And so we really don't expect a whole lot of change out there.
So lots of reserves lots of known reserves and I think if we do see a price signal producers are ready to jump on it but we're not expecting anything dramatic out of the area.
And really proud of the team for working hard to keep our cash flows as steady as they have considering how low NGL margins have been out (01:04:02).
Great.
Thanks a lot Alan.
Thanks for your color this morning.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Sharon Lui of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just wanted to I guess get your thoughts in terms of the pace of additional capital spending for gathering and processing assets in the Northeast given the current environment? Specifically maybe if you can talk about I guess the investments tied to the Utica with Chesapeake and how you see maybe that $600 million of capital ramp up over the years? Yeah.
Great question.
I would just say that we're really excited about that acreage dedication and think that once the infrastructure demand or  sorry the infrastructure constraints are lifted out there and the firm obligations that various customers have out there they'll be working to take advantage of that firm capacity that they have and so feel pretty good about the prospects of that.
But I also would say that the way we're structured on that we're not obligated to go spend that money out in front of the production showing up and so we have an ability to step into that.
So we're not going to be out spending capital in front of that drilling from a risk standpoint.
But we do think that's a very very good acreage some really impressive cost levels available to it.
And so we're really excited.
We've got a very good vantage point of what people's production versus cost levels are.
We're very excited about that acreage.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from John Edwards of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
This is Bhavesh instead of John on.
So most of my questions are answered.
Just a question on Geismar.
Given where ethylene prices are curious to know your views on prices going ahead for the next maybe few quarters and whether there are any opportunities to maybe have any fee-based contracts against (01:06:28)? John you want to take that please? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services The Williams Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Glad to take it and thanks for the question.
Yeah.
First of all we're really pleased to be serving customers again back in Louisiana.
It just so happened that as we brought Geismar back on so did Evangeline come on and so the market was well served.
And I think looking back over our shoulder here in the last quarter the ethylene market was well served by production in that there were very few shutdowns or unexpected shutdowns.
And I think in at least one of the months  say it was July we saw industry-high production.
So I think all of that lead to perhaps a bit of an oversupply or a slightly long market in ethylene and the necessary price adjustments that occurred during the quarter.
I'll note though that over the last weeks two weeks notionally we recovered some of that price.
It's come back up probably on the order of about $0.05 at this point.
And so just to take the conversation a little further forward to answer your question finally as we look forward and we look into we call it the second quarter of next year a couple of factors that'll play positively is a very high turnaround season.
And I think another factor that will play positively is relatively low inventories of ethylene by any public accounting.
So I'm certain that people are doing exchanges to fill their needs in next year but low inventories and high shutdown rates planned shutdown rates certainly bode well for the supply/demand balance I think in our favor.
I hope that brings the necessary coloring; that's the way we see things playing out here over the next couple of quarters.
Sure.
And are there any opportunities to tie in contracts pricing-based contracts on these? Natural Gas Liquids &amp; Petchem Services The Williams Cos.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks.
Forgot to mention on that.
We're always in the marketplace looking to secure the best value for our ethylene out there and we have been in conversations in past  I'll say past quarters including this last quarter and we continue to have conversations with customers over whether or not they desire to enter into any sort of contracts all in including fee-for-service contracts and so trying to lock in some of the margins into the future.
Of course in this dynamic price environment everyone sits across the table with kind of rubber guns pointed at each other and we'll see where those negotiations go over time.
But we're always looking when it would appear to be favorable to us to lock up solid volumes and solid margins on Geismar 1.
Great.
Thank you.
And thanks Alan and congrats on a great quarter.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate that.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Please continue.
Okay great.
Well thank you everybody for joining us this morning.
We really appreciate the interest and appreciate you respecting the scope of our discussion this morning as well.
So thank you for that.
Also just want to say big thanks to the team here at Williams great execution and just a lot of great focus on delivering a strategy that we had before us and appreciate all their attention to focus despite the many distractions that we've had.
So with that thanks again for joining us this morning and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference call for today.
You may now disconnect your line and have a great day.
Good day everyone and welcome to The Williams/Williams Partners 2015 Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Porter Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Enterprise &amp; Planning</strong> Thank you Angel.
Good morning and thank you for your interest in Williams and Williams Partners.
Yesterday afternoon we released our financial results and posted several important items on our website.
These items include yesterday's press releases and related investor materials including the slide deck that our President and CEO Alan Armstrong will speak to momentarily.
Our CFO Don Chappel is available to respond to questions.
And also we have the five leaders of Williams' operating areas with us: Walter Bennett leads the West; John Dearborn leads NGL &amp; Petchem Services; Rory Miller leads Atlantic-Gulf; Bob Purgason leads Access Midstream; and Jim Scheel leads Northeast G&amp;P.
In our presentation materials you will find an important disclaimer related to forward-looking statements.
This disclaimer is important and integral to all of our remarks and you should review it.
Also included in our presentation materials are various non-GAAP measures that we reconcile to generally accepted accounting principles.
These reconciliation schedules appear at the back of the presentation materials.
Over the past many months we've taken many questions related to the merger between Williams and Energy Transfer.
The focus of our call today is our fourth quarter results and business outlook.
So we're not going to take questions on the pending merger or other related matters.
However before we discuss our fourth quarter and year-end 2015 results I can provide a brief update on the transaction.
Williams' Board of Directors is unanimously committed to completing the transaction with Energy Transfer Equity per the merger agreement executed on September 28 2015 as expeditiously as possible and delivering the benefits of the transaction to Williams' stockholders.
Completion of the pending transaction remains subject to the approval of Williams' stockholders and other customary closing conditions.
Integration planning is underway.
As previously discussed in Energy Transfer Corp.
registration statement on S-4 filed November 24 2015 with the SEC ETE and Williams received a request for additional information and material from the FTC pursuant to the HSR Act review.
On February 1 2016 Energy Transfer Corporation received additional comments from the SEC related to the first amendment of the S-4.
Certain requests made by the SEC relate to information that will be included in ETE and Williams' 10-Ks which the companies expect to file the final week of February 2016 so next week.
Therefore the companies now expect to file a second amendment of the S-4 shortly after filing those 10-Ks.
With that update I want to reiterate that we won't be taking questions regarding the pending merger or other related matters.
As always please feel free to contact our Investor Relations teams for questions you may have.
Thank you all in advance for your cooperation.
And with that I'll turn it over to Alan Armstrong.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
This is going to be a fairly brief presentation we do want to  we will take a look at the fourth quarter results and also drivers for the full year.
We'll offer our perspective this morning on one of our very important customers Chesapeake and a lot of concerns have been raised there.
And we'll look at upcoming drivers that'll drive 2016 along with our 2016 capital plan.
And then finally some thoughts on the strength of our strategy in this difficult commodity price environment.
We're very pleased with the way our business is holding up and as well the kind of opportunities that continue to come at us in our effort to continue to connect these low price natural gas supplies into growing demand markets.
So with that let's look on slide two here.
We recorded another strong quarter demonstrating our continued project execution reliable operating performance and the resilience of our business to grow despite sharply lower commodity prices and what turned out to be a very mild start to the winter here in the fourth quarter.
Even with the reduced producer activities in the supply areas we enjoyed continued growth in fee-based revenues primarily from demand-driven projects and expansions that were brought into service during the year.
Our continued focused on a clear strategy project execution and cost management are evident in our results.
And very importantly despite the pressures impacting the industry we once again saw the dramatic growth in our fee-based revenues offset the impact of continued lower commodity prices.
In fact our adjusted EBITDA was up 25% over 4Q 2014 and our full year adjusted EBITDA was up a total of 26% despite very low NGL and olefins margins.
In fact I think impressive status across all of our system.
Just on our gas gathered volumes we were up off a very big number in terms of our total gathered volumes.
We were up 6% on total gathered volumes for the year despite a lower producers activities and a lot of very significant curtailments that continue to exist.
Looking directly at the fourth quarter the WPZ DCF of $718 million produced a coverage ratio of 0.99x and of course this is before we would  if you were to include the substantial impact of the $209 million IDR waiver.
This would lift our coverage up to 1.39x.
And of course this is not insignificant and certainly provides support for funding our 2016 growth capital program.
Highlights for the fourth quarter of 2015 to the fourth quarter of 2014 comparison I'll just give you the highlights here.
First of all fee-based revenues were up $139 million or 12% and that was driven primarily by Atlantic-Gulf and with a lot of fee-based assets that came online during the year and as well as growth at Access.
Our olefins margins were up $43 million to $71 million and this was strong operating performance at our Geismar plant with low per-unit margins due to low olefins prices.
So great results on the operating side at Geismar and actually across all of our NGL &amp; Petchem Services during the quarter but relatively low olefins margins there in the fourth quarter.
The proportional EBITDA of equity method investments were up $37 million or 22% and most of that was coming off of our Discovery asset where the Keathley Canyon Connector continues to perform very well.
There was a little bit of maintenance during the period but those volumes remain very strong out there on that system.
NGL margins were down $45 million or 52% and NGL prices now in the fourth quarter were 13-year low.
And the full year 2015 NGL margin was only $160 million which represents less than 4% of our consolidated EBITDA during 2015.
And I did want to make a note have here on the impairment.
We took some very large impairments in the fourth quarter and these were largely a result of dramatic decline in the market value of WPZ and some tests required there up against the full market value and in the fourth quarter.
So that was the value of WPZ in the fourth quarter and then the implied market values of the investments and associated goodwill.
So looking at the total market value of WPZ up against the implied market values of our investments and associated goodwill.
Of course as you'll recall the impaired equity method investments and certain of the impaired goodwill relate primarily to the acquisition of Access Midstream Partners which we were required to book a significant $2.5 billion gain in 2014 and this reflected our purchase price allocation to these assets in 2014.
So as you'll recall we had a big gain in 2014 associated with that acquisition and a lot of that goodwill then was taken out with this new test against the market value.
And so now just a few thoughts on the result by segment.
Atlantic-Gulf had another great quarter up $122 million all on fee-based revenues and so very impressive growth continued there in the Atlantic-Gulf.
And for the full year Atlantic-Gulf was actually up $453 million and a lot of this is coming off of projects like Gulfstar One as well as the Transco expansion projects and again the Keathley Canyon Connector on our Discovery system so tremendous growth there in our fee-based revenues.
This was offset a little bit by lower NGL margins of course but overall really very impressive performance.
You might have noticed as well that Atlantic-Gulf had a little bit of higher cost in the fourth quarter and most of this was just related to  we had some repairs on the Leidy Line as well as some additional testing required by the regulators there.
And so we continue to work on the Leidy Line there where we had a rupture on that line earlier in the year.
And so a lot of continued work there that shows up in our O&amp;M expense.
On the Access or what will now be the Central OA we reported fourth quarter of 2015 adjusted EBITDA of $351 million and that was compared to $325 million and a lot of this was just driven by a continued growth in the business.
But we did as well have an increased ownership interest in the Utica East Ohio Midstream joint venture that helps drive some of that as well.
On the Northeast G&amp;P flat fourth quarter 2015 to fourth quarter of 2014 but a 30% growth year-over-year.
So we were at in 2014 full year was $276 million and we were up $80 million to $356 million here in 2015 and for the full year.
So really driven by continued increased service fees at Ohio Valley Midstream higher overall volumes and those were offset by some higher operating expenses including some line repairs that were required earlier in the year as well there.
Really important note here we did sign a new gathering agreement with an existing customer during  here very recently and we were really excited about this that it's going  we do  it does produce a lower rate for the customer but we've got some incremental volumes that are coming on associated with that agreement as well as some much larger acreage dedications that came with that.
So really excited about this new agreement.
And we're not counting on any new drilling anticipated here for 2016 on that.
And even without that new drilling we expect our revenues to be held flat for 2016 despite the lower rate just because there are some new volumes that come to us as a result of transaction and some new wells  or some new production that's being tied in.
So a lot of similar story in the Northeast where we continue to tie in production that's already been drilled.
We're really not relying in the Northeast.
We're really not relying on new drilling rigs out there.
We're really just relying on tying in continued tie in of production.
But the real key force there will be when we start to see some of the takeaway projects take hold because that clearly is the constraint out here.
It's not a matter of rigs running in the area; it's simply a matter of seeing some these big bottlenecks open up and then us tying in a lot of this already completed production and seeing that flow for us.
In the fourth quarter  sorry on the NGL &amp; Petchem side really great operating results for NGL &amp; Petchem from an operating standpoint but we did have lower unit margins during the period.
So really pretty good operating stint both in Canada and Geismar in terms of volumes but again very low unit margins.
Just to remind you there for the year we were $216 million lower but this was due to the lack of the insurance proceeds and about $89 million lower commodity margins.
So a big step down but again most of that was just due to the loss of some assumed business interruption proceeds that we booked in 2014.
In the West great continued focus on cost management in the area.
We were off about $15 million versus fourth quarter of 2014 and that was really driven by $27 million lower NGL margins as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
And again I'll remind you NGL margins are now at a 13-year low.
But really proud of the team out there and their continued focus on cost management and able to continue to generate very significant EBITDA despite low prices.
Moving on to slide three this is a really important slide here we wanted to show you.
We certainly had a lot of questions about Chesapeake and our relationship and a lot of focus by investors on the credit risk related to Chesapeake.
And so we really wanted to just take this opportunity to walk everyone through some facts and some of our perspective as a midstream service provider that plays a critical role in getting the natural gas production from a wellhead to marketable condition and location.
So first I note that we have a very strong relationship with Chesapeake.
We appreciate them as a great operator in the nation's very best shale resources.
They have some of the very best acreage in large contiguous blocks and we are very pleased to have the opportunity to serve them as a key customer and one of the best large scale operators from our perspective.
So I tell you we are constantly impressed with the way this team continued to be able to lower their cost and work out creative solutions with us and other parties and really thankful for the relationship.
They are paying their bills in a timely manner as usual and including we just recently got paid for the minimum volume commitment related to the Haynesville and we fully expect them to pay the MVC invoice on the Barnett when it's due.
It's not due yet.
But we're excited about continue to work with them on that and fully expect that to come through as well just as they paid the Haynesville on time.
So from our view they continue to reduce their costs and operate efficiently and effectively to maintain liquidity.
And nevertheless though we are mindful of the credit risk that these continued low prices pose for many producers including Chesapeake.
And so here's how we think about the risk.
First of all we have long-term dedications with strong contractual conveyances of interest in unproduced gas.
We like our argument that we hold a current real estate interest in unproduced gas and that our covenant running with the land not subject to the rejection and bankruptcy.
We certainly are following current bankruptcy cases like Sabine where the general question is at issue but people should understand that the ultimate outcome in individual cases will turn on specific facts and circumstances.
Regardless even if the court were to rule we don't have such legal rights our gathering lines are physically connected to Chesapeake's wellheads and pads and we provide a very critical service conditioning and connecting Chesapeake's production to points where they can then choose the best markets for the long-haul transportation alternatives.
In exchange for the dedication of production we invested capital to build gathering lines that are uniquely positioned to serve Chesapeake's well.
So all these systems were built out specifically for their needs and generally at their direction and to the size and scale that they needed to be able to produce volumes on a projected basis.
In most cases there are not other gathering lines nearby because these are big contiguous areas and these systems were built specifically for their production.
And in many cases our pipelines have been built on populated places such as beneath the city of Fort Worth and it would be very costly for others to replicate our gathering lines.
And the rates of return that we generate from these investments and assets are very typical for a midstream provider.
Likewise our gathering lines have been in place for some time and thus the reserves behind them are now partially produced.
To continue to produce such gas Chesapeake and its creditors if it ever came to that would want and need to utilize our gathering lines to deliver gas to the markets.
So such gathering lines are very distinguishable from long-haul transportation service because the intra- and interstate pipeline initiate service after the gas has already pooled at marketable points.
Producers then have many options to receive cash for their products other than transportation on any one particular interstate pipeline.
If it did come to a bankruptcy a producer can argue that it can reject certain types of contracts and we believe gathering contracts such as ours are not the type of contracts that would be rejected.
But even if a gathering contract were allowed to be rejected a producer and its creditors would continue to need the gathering service to be able to produce gas and create revenue.
If a producer rejects the gathering contract in a bankruptcy the gatherer will no longer be obligated to provide the gathering service.
Furthermore rejection of a contract is all or nothing.
Therefore the analysis of the risk of any producer's bankruptcy is best analyzed contract by contract and really understanding that the particulars of the services being provided and how unique those services are that are being provided.
As any prudent midstream service provider would do we have studied each of our Chesapeake contracts and considered the value of Chesapeake's reserves our physical connection to their wells and their alternative options for delivering gas to market and we believe that we understand much better than anyone the real value of our assets if it ever came to a bankruptcy process.
But let me be very clear on this matter we have great confidence in Chesapeake in their assets and more importantly in their tremendous operating capabilities and management team.
Thus far they have continued to do all the right things in very difficult circumstances and we look forward to helping them be very successful for years and years to come and we have great confidence in their ability to do that.
We will continue to find win-win solutions that align our interest and to support them where we can in their asset sales.
And as you can see in the table on this slide Williams' scope and scale of gathering in all of the key natural gas basins is significant.
And there are significant non-Chesapeake working interests in basins as well that also give us confidence and the continued cash flows from these assets.
So overall we'd just tell you we are very proud of our relationship with Chesapeake.
We're very impressed with them and  but we also don't have our head in the sand and we are looking very closely to these alternatives.
And we feel very strong about our position if it ever were to come to a bankruptcy.
Moving on to slide four this is just an overview here of some of the recent developments and what we see coming soon.
First of all I want to reiterate that the demand side of the natural gas market is really driving our capital investments and you can just see that as you look at some of these projects the Transco Leidy expansion just came in and that  first part of that started up on December 8.
And then we continue to bring segments on in-service through the month of December and now here in January we are fully completed with all segments in service now for the Leidy Southeast expansion.
Great work by the team under some difficult circumstances but really great performance by the team that manage that project.
The Transco Gulf Trace project this is a project to serve the Cheniere's Sabine Pass LNG facility.
Construction is underway with a target in-service of first quarter.
2017.
We'd just tell you it's nice to be able to be doing construction in more friendly environments like Louisiana and the teams did a great job of bringing that project board as well.
The Transco Gulf Connector project which is the new long-term contract we just announced for 475 million a day of new expansion service that will also serve Cheniere's Corpus Christi and Freeport LNG facilities that would be in 2019.
And then just a note here quickly on the Marcellus and Utica volumes.
The real story going on in the Marcellus and Utica is that we are seeing both growth in available production.
So what do we mean by available production? We mean the production if there were markets available that could actually be flowing.
We continue to see that grow behind our systems and we also saw significant price-related shut-ins in the quarter.
So this bottleneck if you will continues to grow in size with available production growing up behind a very constrained outlet and lower-than-usual regional demand in the areas.
But I think it's important to know that we now have over 33% of the gathered volumes in the area and this really leaves us with great exposure once the bottlenecks are cleared.
And I think what's really important to note there is that we're not relying on drilling capital for those volumes.
All we need is some of those bottlenecks to open up and we'll have volumes flowing without the need for a lot of additional drilling capital.
And so this is very different in most areas of the country where there's a lot of concerns about producers not having the capital to drill.
In this area it's just a matter of the infrastructure being built out in front of it.
And then finally our Geismar plant.
Really proud of the way the team operated the plant and we exceeded our production expectations for the quarter there and are off to a good start here in 1Q of 2015 as well there  or sorry 1Q of 2016 as well.
Just looking forward some things that are going to drive us looking forward.
The Canadian Offgas Processing business the Horizon project that you've heard us talk about quite a bit.
That plant is now the Fort McMurray plant so that's the plant that actually extracts the liquids out of the offgas is now rolling and it has began extracting liquids but that will be a process here over the next three weeks or so to get that up to full production.
And then finally we've got to some remaining work at Redwater to be able to fractionate all those liquids and we expect that to be coming on in March.
So a lot of new revenues that will show up there on WPZ as those volumes hit both the pipeline and the Redwater fractionators.
And then I'll remind you that the margin side of that business is left at WMB at the Horizon facility upstream.
As well our Kodiak tieback this is a tieback for Devil's Tower platform and that project is being brought online and has been in the testing phase here for the last couple of weeks and is just about to begin to really add some very significant cash flow here in the first quarter.
And then the Gunflint tieback which we expect to come on now in the second quarter which will be our first big tieback to the Gulfstar One project and this is  will also be contributing very substantial cash flow growth with very minimal additional capital investment on our part.
We do expect the Gulfstar production to be a little bit higher in the first quarter than we saw in the fourth quarter due to some well workover work that was going on out there and so we're excited to see some of the benefits of that work that will start to improve things here into the first quarter and beyond.
Last year we announced plans to increase the capacity on our Eastern interstate pipeline from 10.8 Bcf to more than 17 Bcf per day by the end of 2017.
And in fact by 2017 we expect to double the capacity of the Transco system from its 2010 level.
So once again these projects just keep coming and we've got great transparency into our predictable growth and it provides clear evidence that Williams has a truly unique position in terms of our asset footprint especially in challenging market times.
Our backlog of project remains robust and the demand side project just keeps coming at us with amazing pace and consistency and in particular along the Transco system.
These are fully contracted demand pull projects and we will continue to high-grade these opportunities as we balance constrained funding sources up against continued robust backlog.
So our issue is not a matter of backlog we have plenty of great investment opportunity; it's really a matter of getting lower  better funding sources and low cost funding sources to supply all these opportunities.
So we're in a envious position of having plenty of opportunity and again just a matter of getting those funded appropriately.
Moving on to slide five.
So as we said before much of the attention in the industry is focused on producer shut-ins and commodity prices.
We remain focused on serving and capturing the growing demand for natural gas.
This focus is especially important in the Northeast where we're working to unlock the tremendous value of the Marcellus and Utica areas by providing market access via the Constitution and Atlantic-Gulf projects.
Our strategic remains intact and the underlying fundamentals of our business are strong despite reduced producer activities in the supply areas.
And just a few weeks ago we announced our revised business plan to address the realities of our current market environment while continuing to invest in our business.
In addition to significantly lower operating expenses in 2016 the revised 2016 plan includes growth capital funding needs of around $2.1 billion which is about $1 billion or 32% less than our previous plans.
The plan includes $1.3 billion for Transco expansions and other interstate pipeline projects.
And the non-interstate pipeline growth that's embedded here totals about $700 million and this is primarily reflecting additional investments across our gathering and processing systems where capital spending for gathering and processing in 2016 will be limited to really new producer volumes including mostly wells that are already drilled and completed but that are waiting connecting infrastructure.
So as I said earlier we're really not depending on a whole lot of drilling here in 2016; we're really just focused on connecting and getting volumes that are already connected flowing.
Moving on to slide six here just to close out.
First of all the fourth quarter results certainly demonstrate the resilience of our fee-based assets.
Approximately 93% of PZ's gross margin were from fee-based revenues.
The continued growth in Atlantic-Gulf segment continue to be driven by great expansions on our Transco system as well as our deepwater volumes.
And sequential growth in the Marcellus and Utica volumes really was impressive; in fact total operated volumes in this key region were up 8% as you compare the fourth quarter to the third quarter.
While the total volumes in the regions so not just ours but looking at the total industry production actually declined a little less than 1%.
So again total region declined a little less than 1% but our volumes were actually up by 8%.
So really continue to grow our market share in this very important region.
Our 2016 WPZ business plan really did address the realities of our current market environment and continues our investments in growing the demand side of our business.
Certainly we continue to high-grade our opportunities and a lot of that capital is going towards really important demand-driven infrastructure projects that serve long-term natural gas needs of local distribution companies electric power generation LNG and industrial sources.
And so just to reiterate this quarter's results and our continued strong backlog of projects are a direct reflection of our strategy to uniquely position Williams to connect the best natural gas supplies to the best markets regardless of significant market swings and cycles.
And so as we move to questions I'd like to highlight what John mentioned in the opening.
The Williams' Board of Directors is unanimously committed to completing the transaction with Energy Transfer for the merger agreement executed on September 28 2015 and delivering the benefits of the transaction to Williams' stockholders.
Beyond that though we're only discussing our fourth quarter and year-end results and we ask that you keep your questions focused on our results.
We will not take questions related to the pending transaction between Williams and ETE or related matters and we thank you in advance for your cooperation for that request.
And so now operator let's please move on to questions.
Thank you.
Our first question will come from the line of Christine Cho of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
I was wondering if we could start with any insights that you guys have from your talks with the rating agencies and your commitment to the investment grades rating at WPZ given all the agencies had taken action before your press release detailing reduced CapEx.
Any color on how they feel about your CapEx cut deferrals your Chesapeake exposure your asset sales et cetera? Also if you could talk about where they would like to see your debt/EBITDA ratio to get to? I mean are they still okay with that 5 times? Christine this is Don.
Good morning.
Great question.
We've been in regular dialogue with S&amp;P and the other agencies.
And I really can't speak for the agencies but I think we've had a very constructive conversation and I think they appreciate the strength of our business as well as some of the challenges ahead and we're continuing to work with them and look forward to their decision.
And again we're very much focused on maintaining that investment grade rating but obviously it's their call.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I guess in that context you stated at least $1 billion of asset sales in the first half of 2016 in the original press release.
What kind of asset sales are you assuming? And I'm curious to know if you started the process for this and what type of parties you're talking to.
Is it utility midstream guys financial guys? And should we expect to see any announcements before the deal closes or do we need to see the deal closed first? I would say that we're preparing for the asset sales.
We've not launched anything as of this date yet we're confident that we can sell the assets and generate the liquidity that we previously outlined kind of in the second quarter.
But at the same time we're not identifying the assets at this point.
We don't think it's in our interest to do so.
We have quite a few assets that we could in fact monetize so we're going to keep our options open but we remain confident in our ability to do so.
The merger does not need to close.
So we'll execute on that either before or after the merger depending on the exact merger timing.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to touch upon the bankruptcy comments that you guys had.
Alan you talked about with respect to a rejection it's all or nothing.
And so I'm curious to know let's say the bankruptcy court says that these contracts cannot be rejected does that mean legally you guys aren't required to mark to market the rate at all or let go of the MVCs or is that debatable? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No that is right.
It is everything.
Those contracts are all-in-one and it's all the terms of the contract so there isn't ability to cherry pick the terms the contract.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Brandon Blossman of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Alan I'll start off on a bright note.
Transco expansion projects some puts and takes in the backlog but it looks like by and large that looks like on track for a multi-year period.
Would you care to contrast Transco's projects with others that are on the project list across the board and the peers in terms of likelihood of going ahead and maybe benefit on an incremental basis to Transco as some of those more heavily producer-backed projects that don't show up in 2016 and 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think we really don't have those risks in our projects right now.
They're fully contracted and they're very secured credit standing behind those contracts.
So we really don't have that kind of risk in the projects that we are utilizing with Transco.
And so there are a lot of producer-pushed projects out there with very different kind of credit rating standing behind them but in our case we feel very strong about the credit and the term standing behind our projects.
And there's certainly great push to move ahead with those and a lot of volumes packed up behind those systems ready to flow if and when we get those projects completed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> And this is looking into a crystal ball but do you think there's any possibility of some incremental counterparties that are on projects that may not go forward that would eventually accrue to the Transco system? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well perhaps.
The only thing I would say to that is there would have to be expansions likely because we have a really clear idea where all those volumes are going to come from that are supporting those projects that we have and they're completely sold out.
So it would have to be in the form of expansions beyond what we have today.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
On the gathering and processing CapEx more than cut in half is there any incremental risk to or possibility to that $700 million getting cut further for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah to a certain degree.
For instance some of that capital is out in the Permian and in that case we're going off of the operators' indication on how much capital will be spent out there; operator being the operator of the midstream assets.
Most of that's non-operator investment for us and so we're depending on both the producers and the midstream operator forecast of that and that continues to be a moving target in many basins.
So I would say in those areas those more oil-driven basins could be some movement down.
I would say in the areas like in the Marcellus or the Utica we're managing that very closely and trying to optimize the timing of the capital right in line with the opening of new projects coming out of the area.
And so there's probably some room to optimize if you will and the way some of that capital until the projects are specifically coming on time.
So we could see a little bit of that slip but a lot of that is already underway and the work is ongoing.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Actually that's helpful color.
And then just finally from me on that last point Marcellus and Utica volumes.
You said you saw some shut-ins fourth quarter.
Any indication that those are coming back online with winter demand in the first quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We saw a little bit pickup and we certainly saw interest from producers who shut in and were bringing back online.
So we actually have seen some people taking advantage.
We've seen some these cold weather surges.
What you have to really remember about the demand in the Northeast there is it's driven by two things.
First of all its capacity to get out of the region and that's pretty fixed.
In other words those pipelines are completely full getting out of the region and so that doesn't move a whole lot.
But what does move in a regional demand based on weather loads in the area where gas is consumed in the region.
And so that'll be either driven by cold weather which we've seen a little bit here in the first quarter or it'll be driven by very hot weather in the summertime and those are the two things that will drive the variable.
Until some of these projects  new projects come online that will be what drives the volumes in the Northeast.
There's plenty of gas ready to meet that demand as it opens up.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you Alan.
Appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
And your next question will come from the line of Ted Durbin of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Appreciate all the color on the Chesapeake contract.
I guess I'm just wondering about  it seems like I'm sensing a tone change from you around your willingness to renegotiate the contract.
I think you'd already done the one in the Haynesville.
Does that now change your view there? And there's an argument out there that such as commodity prices that's pressuring Chesapeake it's also the above-market gathering contracts.
I just love your thoughts there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No our  I'm sorry if I gave you that impression.
We continue to work with Chesapeake in areas to help in negotiating and I would say nothing has changed on that.
Our relationship with them is very strong.
And the concept of the rate  we keep hearing this above-market rate and I think what people need to remember there is that the rates get set based on the capital that we spent and the returns that are very normal returns in the market.
And so we hear this term above-market rates a lot of the time but in fact really the returns that we're generating are very normal.
What's occurred that caused the rates to go higher in some areas is where the volumes haven't shown up but we're still the asked return on our invested capital is very normal for the space.
But certainly no indication  or no I didn't mean to indicate that our tone with Chesapeake has changed.
We're simply  and I want to make really clear on this all we're trying to address is all the concerns that have been expressed by the investors and media not necessarily our own.
We've always kept an eye on the issue as we do with any big customer but our relationship with Chesapeake and our confidence in them remains very high.
Appreciate that.
Maybe just a couple of other ones from me on Chesapeake issue.
What is the returns revenue or EBITDA you're earning right now in the Barnett in the Haynesville and then can you give us a sense of the overall contribution from Chesapeake to your EBITDA? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We'd take on that first part in terms of our return.
Yeah those returns were set kind of in the mid-teen range on all of those assets and that's what we continue to try to seek out like in our renegotiations in the Haynesville and so forth.
We continue to seek out that type of return there.
So that really hasn't changed.
The overall contribution of Chesapeake to our EBITDA I'll have Don maybe take that one.
Yeah.
I think it's around 20% plus or minus.
It depends on the period but somewhere in that zipcode.
I think 18% was the most recent.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And then lastly from me on the financing side you did the Transco bond recently.
Is that another tool that you think like you can use more I hate to call it a stand-alone leverage at Transco relative to other financing sources that are out there? Yeah.
I think our plan is to keep Transco in the sweet spot for its rate-making purpose.
So we are not inclined to put more leverage on Transco.
Now Transco has a lot of growth so certainly it'll naturally absorb some additional debt as it continues to build out its projects.
But in terms of just adding leverage to Transco that's not our plan.
Great.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Becca Followill of the U.S.
Capital Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Few questions for you.
One can you quantify the lower OpEx that you're looking for the reduction in terms of dollars for 2016? And then the second one is on the contract that you recently renegotiated with a customer for lower rates in exchange for higher volumes.
Are you looking at doing other of the  more of those with customers that are not Chesapeake? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Becca I will take the second half of that and I'll let John take the first part of that.
As to the contracts in any negotiation that was a situation where the rate from a legacy cost of service contract was so high that there was no way the reserves in the area would ever be produced and so it was a matter of rate being even in excess of the price of gas.
And so this was a matter of actually getting the gas flowing and assuring ourselves that the gas would continue to flow in exchange for some additional volumes and additional dedication in the area.
So whenever we have opportunities like that that we can bring increment to our gas  or sorry our cash flows as we look on a long-term basis we certainly will try to take advantage.
And there are plenty of win-win opportunities out there to increase our cash flows to get gas flowing that's not flowing today.
Obviously we have to be cognizant of the fact because I mentioned earlier that there is only so much gas that's going to get out of the region.
And so we want to maximize those revenues on our system because we realized that when Mcf starts flowing in one place it likely means that it didn't come off a competitor system; it would come off of our own system.
So we certainly are cognizant of that issue and the strength getting out of the basin.
Williams Partners GP LLC</span></strong> On the cost question Becca we've not put an exact number out there I guess for significant cost production that we're committed to.
We're already implementing some of those cost reductions.
We'll continue to implement additional cost reductions prior to the merger date.
And then we would expect even more significant cost reductions to follow the merger.
So the merger date is a variable in that as well as our joint planning with the ETE team in terms of such cost reduction.
So we're not prepared to put a number out there at this point but we will as we get further along in the year.
Understand.
Thank you.
And then just to go back to the question on the rate reduction are there producers  because we get these questions constantly are the producers actively requesting rate reductions from you guys in order to help them out through this period? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Certainly that's the case Becca and I think what our decision is is what benefit do we get out of that.
Again we have to look at it knowing that there's only a certain amount of gas that's going to get out of the region.
And so we have to determine what the benefit that they're willing to offer in exchange for us lowering the rate up against current prices in a way that provides the cash margin.
So we understand people's cash margins very well.
Truly no secret in terms of what that looks like to producers because we get it from so many different people.
And it really just boils down to who's got the best offer in terms of exchange for us in terms of us being incented to see their gas flows over somebody else's.
Got you.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of Selman Akyol of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> First question I guess for Don.
Going back to sort of the credit rating agencies discussion you said you look forward to a decision.
Can you say when you expect to get a decision from them? I can't give you their timing.
I think again you'll have to speak to the agencies on that.
But again we've been working collaboratively with them to provide the information that they need to make their rating decisions.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
And then just in terms of the related shut-ins just wondering if you could just put a quantity to that in terms of how much has been shut in on your system? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'm going to ask Jim Scheel to chime in and give some specifics on that if he could please.
Sure Selman.
As we began the fourth quarter we had just under 1 Bcf a day shut-in primarily as we've already talked about due to lower pricing coming out of the summer and some lack of takeaway capacity.
As we begin the year we probably have right at about 1.1 Bcf a day or perhaps a little bit more shut-in behind the system as we've seen producers continue to complete wells but throttle the production due to price.
So it's kind of hard to know until we see a full flow but we're estimating right at the 1.1 Bcf.
And really just to put that in perspective if that was all flowing the Northeast would go from about 6 Bcf a day to 7 Bcf a day and our incremental EBITDA would probably increase by about $180 million to $900 million overall.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
That does it for me.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Sharon Lui of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
You indicated I guess there are several projects slated for in-service during the first half of 2016.
Can you just remind us what's the potential cash program for projects like the tie-ins? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I don't think we've provided  I'm looking at John here.
Williams Partners GP LLC</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think Sharon we provided specifics on those but I do think we've said that those are significant.
And so you can look to the kind of revenues that we get off of facilities like Devil's Tower and Gulfstar One.
And you can think about that from a volumetric standpoint as both the Kodiak tie-in that comes into Devil's Tower and the Gunflint tieback comes on to Gulfstar but they're certainly very significant.
Of course just like any deepwater wells they come on gangbusters and decline over time but they will be fairly significant in terms of cash flow additions when they start up.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then I guess just following up on Christine's question about discussions with the rating agencies and the distribution policy just your latest thoughts on whether a distribution reduction would be an option you would take to defend the investment grade rating? Sharon this is Don.
We have a number of options.
Obviously we pointed at cost reductions asset sales potential partners on some of our projects to reduce capital needs and a variety of other tools.
We certainly are mindful of the fact we've got significant cash flow that goes out in the form of distributions but again we don't have any further guidance on that but that's always an option.
Okay.
And maybe this question is for John.
In terms of looking at Geismar I mean ethylene prices still remain pretty depressed.
Just wondering what's your outlook for the balance of the year in terms of ethylene and propylene prices.
Williams Partners GP LLC</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Sharon for the question.
As we take a look forward I think it's rather well-known in the industry that there's a rather large turnaround season ahead of us here in the second quarter.
And so on the ethylene side we think that's going to be up favorable to margins during the second quarter.
But then as we look at the ethylene industry overall in North America this past year we set an all-time new record for ethylene production.
And of course our ability to export ethylene and ethylene derivatives is somewhat yet limited by bagging and terminalling particularly in the polyethylene case.
And so we would expect that the second half of the year on ethylene reverts back to margins more akin to what we're experiencing today.
On the propylene side likewise propylene refinery turnarounds are happening right around now.
They get those done in expectation of gasoline production for the summer season basically.
And so we have a rather stable outlook on propylene at the moment through the rest of the year.
Thank you.
And your next question will come from the line of John Edwards of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Just wanted to clarify  going back to Chesapeake and how things work in a bankruptcy scenario.
We're just curious with the MVCs then would those stay or would those go? Or are they separate from some of the contracts? I mean any color you can provide on that would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah sure.
Just to be clear those MVCs are part and parcel to the agreement.
There's no separate agreement; it's all one agreement.
And in a proceeding  any proceeding the final decision there would be for the creditors to decide if they wanted to accept or reject the contract.
And so that's how that would go.
And it's all or none in terms of they don't get to again decide anything.
So I know there's been a lot of talk about the MVCs being at risk but that's somewhat  I'm not sure what's driven that assumption by the investor base but that's not the way it works.
And as well the market-based rate issue while that might occur during a short-term period during the proceedings there might be an ability to take something to market rates if all the other protections that we talked about were to fail.
Then it would just be during the interim period prior to the settlement of the proceedings.
Okay.
So I mean as a practical matter would there be the possibility to renegotiate those and then submit it to the court for approval? Or is it just literally simply it's all or none take it or leave it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No John.
I think if there was a reason for us to negotiate then yes that could be part of a settlement.
But the decision really is to accept or reject.
And really our point is if the contract is rejected then we no longer have an obligation to provide service.
And because these assets are built uniquely for these reserves the ability to duplicate these assets would be from our vantage point anyway in most of these cases just would not be feasible to build or duplicate all these facilities in these very heavily  particularly places like the Barnett where it's very heavily populated and very expensive to build in especially when you've got less reserves than you started with to build the assets in the first place.
So anyway it could come down to a negotiation if there was value to be shared between the parties in a better contract but our point is just that there isn't any ability to just separate.
If somebody accepts the contract they accept the contract in its whole.
And if they reject it then they take the risk of not being able to get their product moved out of the basin.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just following on the contracts that are up for renewal or renegotiation.
So following an earlier question I think it was Selman that was asking it and the answer was  $180 million to $900 million is the amount that I guess would be  I mean is that a renegotiation or was that just the amount that's due to shut-in? So just for you to clarify on that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh sorry this is on Jim Scheel's.
No I think I can clean that up.
All that is  Jim was saying if the existing shut-in gas that's already contracted that's sitting behind our systems today because it doesn't have anywhere to go it's constrained in terms of bottleneck.
It's already connected to our systems and ready to flow so there's no additional capital required by anybody but what has to happen is the markets in the downstream long-haul have to open up.
And if that were to open up that's the amount of  that $180 million is the amount of incremental income that we would see or EBITDA.
All right.
That's helpful.
And then just last question along those lines.
In terms of contracts that are in current discussion or renegotiation is there any kind of EBITDA-at-risk figure you can provide to us or how should we be thinking about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No we really  so far in our negotiations we've been able to hold our EBITDA steady under these contracts.
And of course that's extremely important to us so we haven't backed up in these negotiations.
We haven't backed up our EBITDA that we're getting in the current environment.
So that hasn't occurred and we wouldn't expect it to.
Okay.
That's super helpful.
Thank you.
And gentlemen there are no further questions.
At this time I'd like to hand it back over to Alan Armstrong for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Very good.
Again thank you all very much for joining us.
Really pleased with the way the business continues to operate in this difficult commodity environment and very excited about the amount of growth projects that are out in front of us that are consistent with our strategy of taking advantage of seeing these low price natural gas really develop a lot demand.
And so we're very excited about where we sit and we appreciate your interest in the company.
Thank you for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your line and have a wonderful day.