Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International's first quarter 2011 earnings teleconference call.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Sarika Sahni of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International’s first quarter 2011 conference call.
With us on the call are David Kirchhoff President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ann Sardini Chief Financial Officer.
At about 7 a.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company’s financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company’s progress.
The press release is available on the company’s corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and risks and certainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligations to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kirchhoff.
Please go ahead David.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we review Weight Watchers International's performance for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
Benefiting from a powerful combination of affective marketing extensive PR coverage and a strong new program launch Weight Watchers enjoyed excellent Q1 results.
We saw robust enrollment levels in all of our English speaking markets and weightwatchers.com business reached new heights with surging sign of volumes particularly in the US.
This more than compensated for our anticipated soft results in our continental European business.
Before I review our numbers it’s important to note that our year-over-year operating results benefited from comparing to a weak Q1 in 2010.
On a constant currency basis Q1 2011 revenues grew 28% over the prior year period with meeting fees of 22% and meeting product sales of 25% and internet revenues growing 65%.
This increase compares very favorably to the 16% total revenue growth we saw in Q4 of 2010.
From a volume perspective combined global online and meeting paid weeks grew by 40% in the first quarter of 2011 versus the prior year period.
This 40% growth was a clear acceleration over the 13% growth rate enjoyed in Q4 of 2010.
Q1 2011 paid weeks for our global meetings business grew a robust 23% versus the prior year quarter.
Paid weeks for our Weight Watchers Online product grew by an unprecedented 72% versus the same period last year.
Q1 2011 EPS was $1 compared to $0.58 for the same period in 2010; a growth rate of 73%.
I will now briefly review our results in our major geographies and business unites.
First; our North American meetings business.
Total NACO revenues which includes the US and Canada were $252 million in Q1 2011 up 34% on a constant currency basis versus the same period in 2010.
Suffice to say this is strongest growth we have seen in NACO in many years and it represented a clear acceleration over the trend in Q4 of last year.
NACO meeting fees grew by 32% in Q1 2011 versus the prior year period entirely driven by volume growth.
In-meeting product sales grew by 46% versus the prior year quarter driven by volume growth and robust sales of enrollment products.
NACO Q1 2011 paid weeks and attendances both grew at 33% versus the prior year period driven by higher active base of members flowing in to the quarter and strong enrollment throughout the quarter.
Enrollment levels in the quarter were not only up significantly versus Q1 2010 but were also significantly above 2009 levels.
Importantly enrollments have never-members in the quarter were also substantially higher than 2010 and 2009.
Early last year began to implement our strategy to re-energize our brand in the US.
It is important to share the sequence and steps we undertook which helped to drive our strong volume performance in Q1.
First; we refocused our message on our brands core strength plus intensity.
After a very weak Q1 2010 we took a new and more aggressive approach to raising the visibility and vitality of our brand in the marketplace.
Beginning April 1 2010 we began to execute our strategy of showing the Weight Watchers brand in a new and much greater light.
As a first step we launched a new campaign featuring Jennifer Hudson who shared her success as a Weight Watchers and followed this with the stories other members in Weight Watchers Online subscribers.
The authenticity of their stories and experiences with a lifestyle based approach clearly resonated with the public.
As a results we saw a gradually building strength in enrollments and meetings and surging growth in our Weight Watchers Online business throughout Q2 Q3 and then in to Q4.
Second; we launched a major new program.
With a reenergized brand and a foundation beginning to form we then launched the new PointsPlus program in 2010 at the end of November.
This new program capitalized on 10 years of advanced nutritional science while building on the strong equity of POINTS completely revamping our highly successful program of 13 years and rebuilding the POINTS plan from the ground up.
While based on the familiar methodology of budgeting and tracking this new program much more directly encourages and nudges our members to make healthier and more satisfying choices.
Despite the lack of advertising at that time the program innovation launch gained considerable buzz largely benefiting from strong press coverage at both the national and local level.
As a result we saw significant growth in both never-members and rejoining members in our meeting business throughout December of 2010.
Third; Ignition.
Beginning December 27 we launched a new advertising campaign featuring Jennifer Hudson along with several Weight Watchers members who all had terrific success with beta testers of the PointsPlus program.
Recognizing the strength of the advertising campaign and the buzz around the new program we increased our media weight in January by over 15% versus the prior year period.
This advertising campaign combined with the already strong buzz around the brand coming in from December resulted in full ignitions for the both the meetings business and the brand during the all-critical month of January.
Finally we’ve sustained our presence with strength and visibility around the brand; continued at a sustained level throughout Q1 as a result of our advertising and PR coverage.
Jennifer Hudson enjoyed significant media attention over her weight loss success and her talent; and she enjoyed exposure in key events including both the Grammy’s and Oscars.
Further she had the opportunity to demonstrate her success on the Oprah Show in February.
Even better the Oprah Show showcased the success of her extended family who were also following Weight Watchers and as of February had lost a collective 1000 pounds.
Finally taking advantage of the late Easter we also extended our TV presence to two additional Q1 weeks beyond our typical campaign period.
The cumulative effect of all the above was strong enrollment growth in every month of the quarter.
For the last few years the growth of our NACO business has been constrained by the declining levels of never-member enrollments.
We finally saw a complete and full reversal of that trend in Q1 of this year.
In fact never-member enrollment growth in Q1 2011 was actually somewhat higher than rejoining member enrollment growth.
This was certainly not the case in our program launched in Continental Europe last year.
We believe that the growth in never-member enrollments in Q1 2011 was a clear indication that our new communications strategy is working and that the Weight Watchers brand had gained significant social currency in the mind of the public to levels not seen in many years.
From our prior calls you may recall that throughout 2010 the NACO management team took steps to consolidate its meeting network to allow us to focus our energies on the strongest locations leaders and time slots.
As a result our meetings network excluding our at-work meetings was 12% smaller in Q1 2011 than in the prior year quarter.
The combination of this plus 33% attendance growth in Q1 2011 resulted in meetings that were on average 15% dizzier than in the prior year period.
We saw average meeting attendances at their highest levels since 2003.
This resulted in vibrant bustling meetings more commission for our service providers and set the stage for gross margin improvement for the NACO business.
We continue to be pleased with the adoption of the PointsPlus program and the NACO meetings business.
Weight loss results have been good despite the newness and the inevitable transition challenges associated with the program change of this magnitude.
Similarly NACO monthly pass retention was consistent with the prior year period.
Anecdotally we continue to see numerous examples of our members leveraging the new program to make more helpful choices in their daily lives more consistently.
Our new program seems to have finally accomplished what none before was able to.
Get Americans to eat more fruits and vegetables.
Our opportunity now is to seek ways to build on the early word of mouth to continue the buzz of this important new program platform.
With regards to Q2 2011 Easter came three weeks later this year so we had not yet completed the second week of our 2011 spring marketing campaign.
We are comping against the launch of our new marketing strategy; therefore we would not expect volume growth through the remaining quarters of the year to come close to the explosive results we saw in Q1.
Nonetheless based on the strong Q1 recruiting trends and the very early positive data from our spring campaign; as we look at the remaining three quarters of the year we expect paid weeks growth in percentage terms in the low-20s and attendance growth in the mid-teens.
This would translate to full year paid week’s growth in the 20s and attendance growth in the high-teens to low 20s.
Now on to the international meetings business.
Like NACO the UK entered the New Year with both the new program innovation per ProPoints and the new advertising campaign.
As a result in Q1 this year the UK saw a significant growth in its meetings business.
As a reminder the UK had a particularly weak Q1 in 2010 due to extremely bad weather in the first two weeks of the year last year.
Q1 2011 meetings business revenues grew 29% on a constant currency basis with meeting fees up 29% and in-meeting product sales up 33% versus the prior year period.
Both attendances and paid weeks were up 23%.
For the full year we expect the UK to continue to see good volume trends in its business.
Due to the timing of Easter and the royal wedding it is important to note that the UK spring campaign got off to a four week later start compared to 2010.
This will have a negative impact on Q2 volume trends versus Q1 but we nonetheless expect very solid results for the full year inline with mid-teens paid weeks’ growth in percentage terms and low teens attendance growth.
Moving on to Continental Europe.
As expected our Continental Europe meetings business had a tough first quarter as a result of lapping the ProPoints innovation launch of last year.
Overall the CE meetings business revenues contracted 16% on a constant currency basis in Q1 versus the prior year period driven by softer volumes.
Paid weeks for the first quarter of 2011 declined by 13% compared to prior while attendances declined 20%.
As we shared on prior calls the CE business launched its new program in Q1 of last year.
The marketing program surrounding the launch were now able to grow never-member meeting enrollments but were successful in growing rejoining member enrollments.
This resulted in a temporary bump in volume in Q1 and Q2 of last year that did not sustain throughout the rest of 2010.
This combined with soft enrollment volumes in Q1 of this year drove our weak performance as we had no product news to repeat the recruitment drive of rejoins.
Given all of this success of our NACO business in attracting never-members we are aggressively looking to benefit from the learnings of that market and apply them towards the in-meeting business.
Concurrently the CE teams are working on a significant version upgrade to the current ProPoints program that will give that market much needed product news.
We believe that this news combined with more affective advertising and PR will allow us to return volume growth to this important region as we move in to 2012.
As we continue in to the year we expect these negative meeting enrollment trends to begin to moderate following the humps of Q1 and Q2 2010 rejoins.
We expect paid weeks and attendance trends to improve throughout the year.
Further we are already starting to see strengthening volumes in our online subscription sale in CE which we take as a very good early indicator of recovering brand strength.
Moving on to weightwatchers.com; the weightwatchers.com business had its strongest quarter by far in its 10 year history.
Q1 internet revenues of this highly profitable business were up 65% on a constant currency basis versus the prior year period building on the plus 32% revenue growth we saw in Q4 2010.
Paid weeks for the Weight Watchers Online product were up 72% for the firs quarter 2011 versus the prior quarter; and End-Of-Period active online subscribers were up 87%.
We ended the quarter with 1.8 million active subscribers versus just under 1 million at the end of Q1 2010.
We saw robust growth and signups in the UK and Australia which benefited from new program launches.
Despite some of the challenges of CE we saw double-digit growth in that region as well.
However the highest growth rates by far were in the North American region where we saw historic growth rates despite online being a relatively more mature product in this market.
The combination of greater media weight highly effective advertising brand buzz and the new program innovation all combine to create a compelling growth opportunity in our largest market North America.
We find this particularly encouraging as we have not yet begun to advertise Weight Watchers Online nearly as aggressively in our international markets creating a nice additional growth opportunity for this product in 2012.
We are using the strength of the results in this business to invest back in to product development and growth.
By way of example we recently expanded our mobile footprint with the launch of a beta version of the Android tracker application in the US.
We are looking to further expand our mobile footprint in terms of both geographies and platforms.
We view our combination of mobile and web applications to be unbeatable when combined with our cutting edge food and activity programs.
This value proposition is strengthened even more in our Monthly Pass commitment plan which brings all of these technology tools together with the tried and true meetings experience.
For the remaining three quarters of the year we expect paid weeks growth of over 50% for Weight Watchers Online.
As we enter the spring campaign I am pleased to announce that we are now beginning to advertise behind our US Weight Watchers Online for men product.
We plan to invest up to an additional $15 million to $20 million in television and online media this year to support the expansion of our brand in to this important demographic growth.
While men currently represent less than 10% of our meeting members in online subscriber base; they give us high marks on satisfaction with their experience with Weight Watchers.
With this investment we are taking our first serious step to begin the build awareness and relevance of the Weight Watchers brand to men.
To be clear this is an investment in our future as we do not expect to see our traditional media efficiency as we go after this new demographic group.
Further much of the revenue benefit from the incremental men we do recruit will be seen in 2012 and beyond.
While all the advertising expenditures will be borne in 2011.
As a result we are forecasting an approximate EPS hit of about $0.10 associated with this new initiative.
This was not part of the original earnings guidance we provided at the beginning of the year but is incorporated in our updated guidance for the year.
Now I’d like to turn the discussion over to Ann who will elaborate further on our Q1 2011 performance.
The first quarter of 2011 was a high water mark for revenue and net income for Weight Watchers.
Our first quarter revenues reached 503.4 million an increase versus prior of 29.8%.
Favorable foreign currency exchange added 1.4% to our revenues in the quarter.
Net income in the quarter grew by 65% to 73.6 million an increase of 29 million above the Q1 2010 level; and EPS in the quarter was $1 up $0.42 from $0.58 last year.
Looking at an overview and then at some of the details of our operational results.
Our operating income growth exceeded revenue growth in the quarter with operating income of 135.7 million increasing by 48.5% or 47% in constant currency over the prior year quarter.
Our operating income margin grew by 340 basis points in the quarter to 27% versus 23.6% last year with the following as key drivers.
Volume growth in our businesses enabled gross margin accretion of 170 basis points.
Our marketing worked hard for us driving significant volume growth at lower cost per acquisition in both the meeting business and the online business; and we gained operating leverage at the G&amp;A level despite investing in business development areas.
Looking at our global volume trends and their impact on our financial results.
As David noted we came in to the first quarter of 2011 with a significantly higher customer base than at the beginning of 2010.
Our Monthly Pass customer base was [16.5%] higher and our end of year 2010 Weight Watchers Online actives were up by 38.2%.
Recruitment in the first quarter was exceptionally strong as well.
As a result global paid weeks increased by 39.7% in the first quarter versus prior reaching 48.5 million.
Q1 2011 was the fifth consecutive quarter of global paid weeks growth.
Global attendance was up 20.3% versus prior spurred by strong recruitment of both new and returning members.
The new program launched in other initiatives drove NACO attendances up 33.1% and UK attendances up 22.2% for the quarter.
The online end-of-period active subscribe base which has been growing steadily in 2010 had reached 1.8 million by the end of the first quarter 2011; an increase of 86.6% over the Q1 2010 level.
The impact of these strong volumes was to drive constant currency revenues growth of 22.8% in the total meetings business and 64.9% in the weightwatchersl.com business; and to increase gross margins to 56.2% up 170 basis points.
In the discussion that follows the growth percentages that I site will be on a constant currency basis.
Meeting fees and in-meeting product sales combined rose 22.8% in the first quarter to 370 million driven primarily by the innovation launches and successful marketing campaign in NACO and the UK.
Meeting fees were 268.9 million 21.9% ahead of prior.
NACO’s meeting fees were up 31.6% on paid weeks growth of 32.6%; while UK meeting fees rose 28.6% with paid weeks growing 21.9%.
These increases were partially offset by performance weakness in Continental Europe.
In-meeting product sales benefited disproportionately from the new program launches.
Because many existing members purchased program guides and starter kits which are typically sold primarily to new enrollees.
Per attendance in-meeting product sale rose 9.5% in NACO and 8.6% in the UK.
In total in-meeting product sales were 101 million globally in the first quarter up 25.2% versus prior.
Revenue in the weightwatchers.com business grew 64.9% in the first quarter to 92 million on the strength of 72.3% paid weeks growth.
Signup growth was particularly strong in North American and the UK.
But we had growth across all major markets.
Our other revenues are comprised primarily of licensing and franchise royalty revenues; revenues from the sale of our products outside of the meeting room; and revenues from our publication.
Our other revenues were 41.5 million in the first quarter; an increase of 7 million or 20.2% 18.6% in the currency neutral basis versus the prior year quarter.
Most of the increases in other revenues resulted from benefits of the program innovation.
Franchise commissions and [standard] products to our franchises were up a combined 2.7 million or 38.9% on the strength of the North American progam innovation.
Our by mail products and revenues from our publications rose 28.4% or 3.5 million over the prior year quarter level; also spurred by the new program innovations around the world.
Licensing revenues were 16 million an increase of 1.8%.
While licensing revenues did increase in the US and the UK Continental Europe’s licensing business lost ground.
Our gross margin was 56.2% in the first quarter 170 basis points above last year’s levels.
The increase was driven by gross margin accretion in the weightwatchers.com business where robust growth such as we experienced in the first quarter comes with minimal variable cost as well as by differential growth in this higher gross margin business.
In the meetings business we experienced an increase in our average attendance per meeting of 22.3% which drove meeting gross margin accretion despite some actions that we took in the quarter to ensure a successful launch of the new program.
Among these were temporarily increasing staffing levels in our meeting rooms and call centers to enable us to better explain the new program to our existing as well as new members.
We also upgraded meeting collateral and in addition the quarter included non-recurring expense as a result of the niche to distribute new program material to existing member rather than just to new enrollees because of the program change over.
While net of these expense items gross margin excluding product sales expanded; the impact of our innovation product sales strategy further reduced meeting growth gross margins with the results that in total it was effectively flat to prior year.
We temporarily discounted products to encourage the purchase of enrollment related items by all members in the innovation market.
The temporary discounting strategies were effective as it reflected in the growth in in-meeting products [build] for attendance in our innovation markets.
These actions were related to the innovation launch strategy.
For the rest of the year we expect the meeting gross margin to expand in comparison to prior.
Marketing expenses for the first quarter at fiscal 2011 were 95.7 million up 27.7% or 20.6 million versus the first quarter of 2010.
We increased our offline marketing spend by 20.8% across all of our key markets with particular focus on the innovation launch countries.
This proved to be a successful strategy in driving recruitment of both customers new to Weight Watchers and returning members.
In the US meetings and online businesses for example we increased marketing investments in support of our program innovations by upgrading during the Winter TV Campaign and by adding TV continuity weeks.
Our internet marketing spends increased by 58.6% driving increased traffic to the website.
This resulted not only in significant growth in Weight Watchers Online signups but it also contributed to growth in the meetings business and generated higher exposure to the brand generally.
Despite increasing our marketing globally our cost per customer acquisition declined by 19% in the meetings business and by 31% in the online business.
Marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues were 19% in fiscal 2011 first quarter as compared to 19.2% in the prior year period.
Selling general and administrative expenses were 51.7 million for the first quarter of 2011 an increase of 11.5% versus the first quarter of 2010.
We incurred higher consulting fees associated with business development higher technology related expenses including for the development of mobile applications and higher salary expenses associated with business performance and growth including higher bonus expense.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for the first quarter declined to 10.3% from 11.8% in the first quarter last year; providing 150 basis points of operating income margin accretion.
Moving now to interest expense which was 18.2 million in the first quarter.
Interest expense was down marginally from the prior year quarter by 0.5 million or 2.8%.
Our effective interest rate increased slightly to 5.03% up from 4.95% in the first quarter of fiscal ’10.
During the quarter we reduced our debt by 114.1 million bringing our debt balance to 1.25 billion and our trailing 12 month net debt-to-EBITDA to 2.48 times.
Our cash flow from operations in Q1 2011 was 201 million before interest payment.
After capital expenditures of 6.5 million we had 194.5 million of free cash available to service our capital structure and return cash to our shareholders.
We paid our quarterly dividends of 13 million and repurchased 34.9 million of our stock leaving us with 73.7 million shares outstanding at the end of the first quarter.
In addition we made interest payments of 16.9 million and reduced our debt by 114.1 million.
Now I will turn it back to David.
We are obviously very pleased by the results of our NACO UK and weightwatchers.com business in the first quarter.
Of course we recognize that some of the strength is a reflection of having a weak comparable from the previous year.
Nonetheless what we are seeing in these businesses is very encouraging and energizing for the Weight Watchers organization.
Despite the success in Q1 our management teams continue to focus our attention on sustaining growth for the rest of 2011 and more importantly setting the table for strong growth in 2012 and beyond.
Growths in 2012 and beyond is going to come from a combination of one; product and service innovation two; high impact in ever present marketing three; retail transformation; four opening the healthcare channel.
Here are some early updates on our progress on some of these key areas.
Products and service innovation: We’ve see the value of providing innovation and product news to our business on full display this year.
While we do not have any near term plain changes of the magnitude of the PointsPlus launch we see multiple opportunities to make meaningful innovations across all of our lines of business.
On the program side; we are planning for a major upgrade to the CE ProPoints program and meaningful enhancements in version upgrades to the US and UK programs for January 2012.
Further we are looking accelerate the pace of technology innovation and functionality platforms and geographic reach.
Our new Android application is just one example.
Retail Transformation: With a successful launch of our PILOT markets in Tampa and St.
Louis we are now proceeding with the process of fully upgrading our entire NACO fixed retail center network.
We expect to have addressed approximately 60% of our stores by the end of this year with much of the remainder being completed in 2012.
We believe that these better retail locations combined with strong incentive branding will be an important growth driver for us in 2012 and 2013.
We also believe that it will create new service offering innovation opportunities ranging from allowing wins during non-meeting times to simple things like replacing foot charts with flat screen TVs further increasing the appeal modernity and convenience of our meetings.
Opening the healthcare channel: Weight Watchers has a big role to play in helping employers and other payers control the hundreds of billions of dollars of expenditures in lost productivity attributable to obesity and unhealthy lifestyles.
Over time we believe we can continue to grow revenue from this channel from the tens of millions we have today to hundreds of millions.
Much of the teams efforts so far this year has been to create the wide product offering as well as the right service and sales platforms necessary to position us for growth in this important new channel.
For example we are actively working on a version of Monthly Pass specially customized for the corporate channel.
We’ve also continued to build our sales capability with the addition of new national sales reps.
We are also hard at work to ensure that we have the right [ITF] systems necessary to support the reporting needs of this channel.
In the interim we continue to get excellent response from the major corporate prospects that we have contacted and we have already secured several promising new accounts despite taking a very conservative sales approach so far while we develop our offering and systems foundation.
Guidance: With the strong financial results of Q1 we’ve taken the opportunity to make additional investments in the business to allow us to secure continued growth in 2012 and beyond.
Examples include the aforementioned marketing demand the acceleration in technology development and our center locations upgrades to allow us to more aggressively capture our growth opportunities.
Despite these investments the strength of Q1 in improving expectations will result in full year financial performance above what we had originally forecasted.
Accordingly we are raising our guidance range from $3.75 to $4 per fully diluted share for the full year versus the previously provided EPS guidance range of $3.50 to $3.85.
At this time operator we would like to take questions.
Just as a follow-on David you talked about a lot of investments that you are making this year for 2012.
Do you think you will be able to get some growth in 2012 off of the tough compares from 2011 with all investments you are making this year? Yeah we feel very good.
If you think about the things that we were doing this year; for example when we went through that recipe or sequence of events to drive our really Q1 outcome; we look at that as sort of a good guide if you will to the way that we are going to continue approaching our business.
What we believe is that the combination of innovation combined with really affected marketing and strong customer in a way that’s sort of captures the uniqueness of the Weight Watchers approach is a process that we can continue repeating with each passing year; and that by itself is going to be an important way for us to continue pushing the business forward in both meetings enrollments as well as online signups.
But I think beyond that if you think about the work we are doing with the retail transformation that’s going to create an additional growth opportunity going in to 2012.
Then as we get in to 2012 and in particular as we start pushing in to 2013 we really believe that this healthcare channel is going to open up an entirely new way of getting people engaged in the Weight Watchers process in a way that we believe is sort of uniquely ownable and captureable by Weight Watchers.
It seems like you are investing a lot this year because you can afford to do that and you’ve raised guidance some but may be not as much as I would have thought given the up sight for the quarter.
I am assuming you are really just using this year to reinvest back in the business for 2012 and now that necessarily that the momentum has slowed down significantly over the last month or two right.
Well no.
To be clear if you heard in the prepared remarks Q1 truly did benefit from a relatively weak comp in Q1 of last year.
But nonetheless the results were good.
As you also heard we had good expectations for the remainder of the year particularly as we look at NACON to dotcom business.
But as you’ve also heard for example we jumped in to opportunity to really begin pushing on our presence with men which we’d never done before.
Knowing that that just by itself was going to be a $0.10 hit on EPS accelerating the rollout of our retail network continuing to sort pushing more aggressively on top of our product development and a lot of others areas we think is going to be critical for our growth.
So we are actively looking to make those investments but we feel very good about the way that we see the earth shaping up and we feel better about what it looks like going in to the years that follow.
Also just on looking at may be who you are taking share from NutriSystem also saw a market share gain throughout the quarter and in April.
Is it just from people who are doing it on their own that were not successful or are you taking it from other commercial weight loss programs.
Where do you think those customers are coming from? The thing you always have to go back to the fact that you always have to go back to is eight out of 10 weight loss attempts are people just trying to do their own thing.
If you look at us from a competitive context with other commercial weight loss programs; what we have going for us now more than ever is that the combination of having a strong meetings business and a strong Weight Watchers Online business and now that we are trying to push out for Weight Watchers Online for men is giving us multiple opportunities to properly invest in marketing.
The net impact of this is that if you look at our share of voice now in terms of our presence in advertising market place and certainly our presence in the media is we probably have the strongest share of voice like this minute that we’ve had in quite some time; and we think that this gives us a very nice additional advantage over some of our commercial competitors who we would also argue have lesser of a lifestyle based approach than we do.
So this really allows us to capture more opportunities and some of those potentially at the expense of our commercial competitors.
But really if I had to estimate sort of where most of the volume is coming from in terms of new people coming in to the fold; I would suspect that a lot of it is coming from people who otherwise were doing their own thing and it’s that 80% that really represents the biggest growth opportunity and that’s where we see our growth opportunities going forward.
Just finally program makes a lot of sense; it’s a nice innovation from the last one and feedback from your customers and their weight loss.
Are you seeing some nice improvements in terms of weight loss versus the old program? Well what you heard in the prepared remarks is that we are satisfied with the weight loss results we are seeing.
The important thing for us when we developed this program which I would argue was even more than nice but actually quite important is that it allowed us to really much more push in to the future which is around balanced nutrition real food and directing people towards food that is more nutrient dense less calorie dense and more satisfying.
We think that this is where the future is in terms of addressing the obesity epidemic and we are absolutely in the center of that and we are in a far better position to be a good partner in addressing the obesity epidemic with this program than we were rest any previous program and certainly better than any other weight loss program accepted by far certainly compared to fat diets.
The thing when we design a program from a weight loss perspective is we were looking to increase the average weight loss per week.
That was never the objective.
It’s important that we continue to do what we’ve always done which is direct our members and help them achieve sustained but appropriate levels of weight loss to ideally targeting one to two pounds per week not more than that.
The markers frankly that we are looking for more and some of the things that you heard me reference in my prepared remarks which is directing people towards more healthful choices; and in that case we are absolutely seeing over and over and over again.
Our members are saying that they instead of reaching for the 100 calorie bag of cookies; they are reaching for an apple.
And we really believe that these types of changes are but going to be the ones that are most important in helping guide our members and everybody who comes to us to more sustaining and more nutritional choices so that they can once and for all forget the process of dieting and start focusing on the process of adopting a healthy life style.
David you said something to the effect that recruitment was higher with never-members than rejoins; and I was wondering if you could put a little color on that.
I suspect that’s a percentage right.
I imagine there are still more rejoins in the meeting than there are never-members right if you can talk about that.
Also can y you talk about what’s your sense of the retention level up in never-members because presumably you are getting a whole new class of people in here obviously that have never been right.
They behave the same way that your existing members do.
Yes in fact you interpreted my comments on the nevers and rejoins absolutely accurately.
When you look at the growth rate of nevers; sure number of enrollments this year versus last year.
When you look at that percentage growth rate that was a little bit higher than the percentage growth rate on rejoins.
Rejoins mean - the fact to consider with the NACO business is that we have such a large installed base of people who know us and come back to us to get re-energized on the program that rejoins are still a relatively higher percentage of our total enrollments.
But really we view never enrollments as a key catalyst to driving future growth.
One of the things you get with never enrollments by the way is that if you can rebuild your base of never enrollments those are people who often will come back for a recharge if you will in the following year.
So in other words driving never enrollment growth is important for driving long term rejoin enrollment growth and so it’s very much a mutually reinforcing model.
In terms of reaction to the program interestingly particularly with this new program and as you heard me reference; any time you launch a program shift of this magnitude its going to be a big change for example the people that were with us at the end of November who changed over literally in the course of a week-end we are going from old points to new points if you will.
Whereas people that were coming brand new to us had never known the old points program; and what we’ve seen is those people have really taken to the new program in a really nice way.
What we also tend to see is that retention characteristics for new people for never member if you will can often sometimes be a little bit stronger.
Certainly you can have some people who come in who may be less informed of what Weight Watchers is and everything else.
But again if you look at net retention for Monthly Pass the cohorts that we are enrolling during January February March of this year and you compare their retention patterns versus the cohorts that were enrolling January February and March of last year it’s very consistent despite some of the temporary transition issues with rejoins.
My guess would be that when never-members have come in they are more inclined to join on Monthly Pass right because you not only get the enrollment fee away.
I am trying to going to just make sense financially.
If that’s the case if you are trying to quantify the impact of the promotion that ran this period and you look at meeting fees per attendee that were flat in a period where I would have thought may be Monthly Pass [I am sure] would have gone off given the big influx of never-member.
Can you just talk a little bit about that and where I may be thinking about it incorrectly? Realize though that if Monthly Pass goes up you do get a discounted product.
So you are going to get a lower meeting fee per attendee than all of the people who came in the door were pay-as-you-go people.
So what you do have in the early days if somebody signing up they are attending all of the time.
So you are going to get from a lecturing cum for attendee perspective you are going to get a little pull-down on that.
But Chris your other point is I am not sure that there is a difference in Monthly Pass adoption rates between never-enrollments and rejoin enrollments.
I don’t think that’s actually the case.
It is fairly consistent.
You probably had people who are existing member also moving in to Monthly Pass but that’s another piece of the puzzle.
Finally over to the online business; can you put a little color around the differences that we see between paid weeks and revenues and then end-of-period online subscribers? It would seem that the online [subsequent] end-of-period could be a leading indicator not a lagging indicator.
I am just curious how you would think about that and how you reconcile the difference in the growth rates between the two.
The end-of-period paid weeks is going to be a leading indicator.
Because if you think about paid weeks for the entire period its going to be the average on some level of what you start with and what you end with.
So if what you end with is higher than what you start with it suggests that your base increased over the course of the quarter; and that is in fact what we saw Weight Watchers Online.
In terms of reconciling paid weeks to revenues one of the sources of revenues that is included within internet revenues is advertising sales from our website.
We are up very nicely in the quarter but not nearly to the same extent as paid weeks were and so that resulted in the growth rate of overall revenues being a little bit lower than the paid weeks growth rate.
Following up on that to the extent you had 86% 87% online end-of-period subscribers.
Why would online paid weeks decelerate over the rest of the year? Looks like we are walking into Q2 with a bigger population of people online now.
That is absolutely helping starting with our higher base of subscribers.
There is a couple of things happening for example if you look at Q2.
First up there is the effect of Easter.
This means that we were dark if you will in terms of both advertising and promotion for a full two weeks.
Where as by the time we turned advertising back on for Weight Watchers Online and promotions back on we were already three weeks in to our spring campaign of last year.
So that’s the first factor.
The second factor is if you recall if you go back to Q2 of last year when we relaunched the advertising program for Weight Watchers Online.
During that time will it be getting in Q2 going in and consistently for Q3 and Q4 we saw a huge shift in signed up growth rates.
It took a little longer for it to show up in the paid weeks because we were basically - signups are going to be the most leading indicator and it takes a little while to build your membership base back up.
But we are now at a point where we have online signups that are comping a much higher growth rate a very strong growth rate in Q2 versus what we had in Q1.
In Q1 we had signup growth but not nearly to the same degree that we had for us the rest of the year.
So the fact that we are actually seeing growth rates continuing to sort of push nicely above what we have seen from the higher base of growth in Q2 of last year early days we view it as a very good early indicator.
But as you get in to this sort of odd territory where 50% growth in paid weeks somehow feels like deceleration.
But I think in the scheme of things its still a pretty great growth rate.
Just to follow-up a little bit.
We had online signup growth in the first quarter of last year of 6% it went to 40% in the second quarter and then 30% and then 60%.
So the comps really changes dramatically when you get to the second quarter of the year.
Could you discuss your plans in regards to the recent acquisition you did at the other half of your JV in China.
Sure.
We continue to believe we say this over and over again that obesity is sadly becoming a health issue around the world and its almost shocking to see the fact that obesity is even becoming an issue in impoverish nations and places like Africa.
Certainly as we look to places like China and we see other emerging economies we see obesity becoming a bigger and bigger issue.
As we look at that for the long term we think it’s going to be very important for us to continue identifying ways of really being masters of our own destiny.
So it’s hard for me to imagine that anything its going to be more core to our future over the next 5 10 20 years in emerging markets.
That’s going to be a somewhat different priority than for our excellent partners who help us get the JV started.
It’s not one of their core businesses it is the service business and that’s generally not the business that they are in.
So they’ve made the decision of focus on their key growth pillars.
We are focusing on ours and this basically puts us in full control of our destiny.
Just moving on to Europe the performance in France is that still being impacted by the other diet and is that diet impacting any of your other markets.
The Dukan diet is still a factor in France in a timeframe that’s not in consistent with the atkins diet that we saw in the US back in 2003 and 2004.
We would expect that overtime that particular will fad will go through the same path that it did in the US and will eventually sort of recede if you will.
But for right this red hot minute he is still very much on the scene in that country.
In that context our French team has done an excellent job for example they’ve been very successful in getting growth back in to their online product.
They are continuing to put some great initiatives in terms of driving the business forward even in the face of a fad like his.
What we also have seen is that more and more health authorities including the French government British nutrition expert and then certainly as he has brought his books to the US there has been a pretty steady chorus of nutrition experts and scientists who have really asked the question why do we need another unsustainable fad diet.
We’ve already been through this process and what we are seeing more and more is that there is tremendous need for programs of focus on balanced nutrition not programs that ask you to wipe out entire food groups which we just know from history and from research is just completely unsustainable.
The nature of the weight management world is that fad diets like these are a reality.
They do come they always have this immediate temper of [heal] that does tend to go away.
I have full confidence that our French team is going to weather the way through this and come out the other end even stronger.
We certainly feel that our position is strong in all the other countries where we operate.
On the retail transformation you said 60% by the end of the year.
Previously you had talked about a couple of markets where you sort of left after that entire market was complete.
We don’t know if there is any other market that are now done and that if you have seen the same phenomena.
No because we are not taking that approach to building it out.
The reason we did the market test in Tampa and St.
Louis was two-fold.
First off we wanted to see what kind of list we were going to get and get a sense of our OI which is really hard to get a beat on until you do a full market conversion.
Secondly we also want to better understand the operational implications to converting over a almost unnatural number of centers in a given market to basically learn where all the [case] were in terms of executing that kind of program.
Now that we’ve gotten all those warnings now that we know that the economic return is there the approach we are taking is not flipping the entire markets over but rather focusing on when leases are coming due and expiring which means that across the rest of the country the full market conversions really wont happen by and large until the end of 2012.
So it’s not going to be apples-to-apples that way its going to be more of a steady process as oppose to individual markets where they are breaking leases and thing like that.
I had a couple of questions that are more of the financial variety.
Number one would you ever issue secondary stock to pay down debt.
Number two would ever split your stock and number three can you update us on the long term commitment of the folks to holding your stock.
It’s been a great investment for them recently and I am sure they are in it for the long terms.
But it is something that some investors are talking about a little more right now.
Just to the questions that I can answer I will just say that in terms of our debt we generate plenty of cash from operating activity.
So there is really no need for us to take any other extraordinary measure to pay down debt.
In fact we are down to 2.5 2.48 net debt-to-EBITDA and by the end of this year we’ll be below two times.
So I don’t think there any need to consider any other approach there.
In terms of our tallest plans I think you have to ask our [tallest].
What was your third question? Would you ever split the stocks.
That’s certainly not something we talked about probably at all.
So I really can’t comment on that either sorry.
Question for David.
This is a nit-picky question on an otherwise outstanding period.
I understand that meeting fees per paid week go down as interest in Weight Watchers rises because you are discounting a bit to get people in as you mentioned and that makes sense.
But it’s a metric that’s been down for two or three years now.
So is it possible there’ something else to consider in our analysis there.
I am guessing it’s a result of some real unusual volatility in the economy and so forth and as things normalize your trends will improve.
Just to clarify for a second meeting fees per paid week are not (inaudible) its meeting fees per attendance that you might see some decline in because most people are taking up Monthly Pass.
But even there we are really not seeing a decline.
Meeting fees per paid week are a function of the fact that more people are moving in to Monthly Pass discounted product.
If you look at total revenue you are getting a tremendous lift in total revenue from the fact that we have much longer retention on the Monthly Pass product.
So if you were to look at meeting fees per attendance you would see the lift there a function of people buying Monthly Pass and not attending every single week that they are paying for.
So basically I am not sure.
What’s interesting Ken is that we’ve heard a couple of our commercial competitors commenting on our results in the beginning of the year had suggested that we’ve been and engaged in heavy promotional activities.
Let me just say right now that it’s absolutely not the case.
We are running exactly the same promotion in Q1 that we ran in Q1 of the year before and frankly Q1 for 10 years before that which is basically through registration.
So we have not been really abusing different promotional scheme for meetings with a couple of exceptions.
But again as Ann gets back to really sort of some of the changing around has much more to do with Monthly Pass penetration.
Also the other piece is as you see the weightwatchers.com business growing and you look at total company paid weeks and you see a shift because the weightwatchers.com product is less expensive than the meetings product.
So we might see a little bit of a shift there just because you get a bigger uptick on the dotcom product as a percentage.
So its natural then as things progress for metrics such as that or things like attendance per paid week or the dollars per subscriber online for those things to slip a little bit.
It’s not something that you would look at as a concern at all.
No actually the dollars for online subscriber are not slipping.
Let me just make sure that we are using all those same language.
We are getting the same retention for Weight Watchers Online that we’ve always gotten which give or take is nine months.
If anything we’d been taking price up just a little bit but we’ve been taking price up with Weight Watchers Online.
So if you look at revenue recognized for a typical Monthly Pass subscriber to further their subscription cycle or revenue for a typical online subscription cycle we are really not seeing tremendous difference in those in order that we expect to see going forward.
The only thing that you might see is that there has been this continuing shift that began in early 2006 and continued to this day of people moving away from pay-as-you-go towards Monthly Pass.
Then online as a percentage of total corporate revenue is obviously greater but if you look at revenue recognition for online revenue versus online paid weeks you are not seeing tremendous difference.
Just as an example online paid weeks were 35% of total paid weeks in the first quarter of last year a 43% of total paid weeks in the first quarter of this year.
So that’s going to have an impact.
Just a couple of questions regarding the efforts to attract the male population.
Is weightwatchers.com the primary vehicle by which you intend to do that as oppose to the meetings or is that not the case.
Right now it is.
We think that the Weight Watchers Online product is a very gateway product in to the (inaudible) for men.
That being said I’ve met more than a few men in fact quite a few men who’ll go to Weight Watchers meetings who swear by it and have had a terrific experience.
They often go with their spouse but we think overtime there’s a chance to change that.
But I think the first step is getting men comfortable with the brand and comfortable with the approach.
Again what we see is that I’ve seen this personally over and over again.
When men do Weight Watchers when they kind of learn about the POINTS program they actually start using it.
They really take to it and they succeed on it and it makes sense to them.
It’s logical they get it.
Frankly by the time they come at the other end they don’t understand how anybody could ever do anything else.
It’s just that the historic brand association has been with women and so it’s really a process of sort of changing and kind of getting pass some of those perceptions.
What we find is that the Weight Watchers Online for men is an easy way for them to kind of ease in to it.
Over time we see tremendous opportunities to grow our appeal for men both with our online product and our meetings product.
I suppose you could start holding meetings in sports bars but I don’t think that’s right.
Any early reader early results; I’ve seen the advertisements; anything to report there.
Actually I was happy as I turned on CNN early this morning I saw one too.
It’s too early days but I think as we get in to the next call we’ll be able to report back.
I’ve met a few men already who have said they have recently signed up so I think that’s a good indicator but its not particularly statistically that.
A normal seasonal split to that 15 million to 20 million incremental advertising or is that front loaded here.
Well its pretty normal.
Dave you didn’t quantify but I take that Continental Europe for the year is still expected to be down.
I think your prior guidance was high single digit low double-digit is that still a pretty good read.
Yeah I think so.
The expenses associated with the real estate effort this year and next care to quantify those? As we said a couple of times it’s more of a pulling forward cash to accomplish - in CapEx to accomplish more of the renovations and retail transformation.
In terms of what you will see from the P&amp;L perspective because of the way we’ve reorganized our self because of the fact that we are moving centers and we are probably going to fewer center you shouldn’t see any impact on the actual rent expense as a percentage so no margin impact.
Is there any way you could size up the corporate effort as it now stands and the growth rate of that effort.
The way to think about our healthcare revenue is that we start with an existing book of business which is our at-work meetings.
As you know that’s historically been about 12% of our North American attendances.
As you’ll probably recall the at-work meeting were sold kind of ground level telesales 25 people of the company get together and give us a call and say can we get a meeting at or Weight Watchers later to come in to our office and give a meeting onsite.
What we call our national accounts of which we have a couple of great examples and they are actually pretty sizeable accounts.
It’s still such a nascent business and it’s such a relatively small portion that any of the growth rates that we would be experiencing now would look astronomical but it’s off of a tiny base.
The way I would think about the corporate business is that particularly that kind of selling at the corporate level and sort of bringing in large major accounts is that 2011 is really about building foundation.
So that’s getting the products right getting the sales and operational aspects of that channel right and making sure that we have the right reporting system.
So it’s a lot of foundation building this year with an eye towards allowing us to then kind of open this spigot if you will in terms of bringing in accounts as we go into 2012 or 2013.
You are contemplating any price adjustments price increases.
It’s a great question because if you look at Monthly Pass we are at 39.95 which is where we were in 2006 when we first launched at the end of 2006.
We haven’t done anything with that sense particularly in our largest market the US.
Certainly during the recession we didn’t feel that it was prudent to take any actions like that.
I have to say I didn’t address it in my prepared remarks but we are like everybody whose had a consumer facing business.
We continue to be a little bit concerned about what’s happening out there with gas prices and with food prices and a lot of other non-discretionary inflation items going up.
We are mindful of that but over the long term and potentially medium term we certainly see a lot of headroom for growth in terms of recognizing more value and potentially taking pricing.
But we want to do it in a way that is in sync with where the consumer is.
Any thoughts on the staying power of a marketing campaign and/or the popularity of the spokesperson.
When I look at the approach that we talk which is a combination of combining innovation with strong marketing and powerful marketing.
If I look for example in the innovation side I see no shortage of opportunities of continuing to innovate and improve the things that we offer.
That can be in the program that can be in technology it can be different service configurations.
So I think product news is something we can always have.
If you look on the marketing strategy really the shift that happened last year or was us going back to our core historic roots of driving authenticity through the voice of our members.
We believe that in a way that really only Weight Watchers could do this that way and so we believe that that is a recipe in a perch that works very well for us that we can continue to repeat and provide year after year after year and we can continue to find new compelling ways of delivering that authentic voice.
Sometimes that’s going to be in the form of the celebrity sometimes that’s going to be in other ways.
But in terms of staying power frankly we don’t have so many examples but the Sarah Ferguson the Duchess of York was a tremendous example for us and a tremendous help for our business for many years.
We continue to see lots of different ways for example we can work with Jennifer to find new ways of inspiring the population that they can make this amazing change in the life.
I had the pleasure and she actually came to the office yesterday and made an appearance at our own at-work meeting.
Suffice to say it was the most populated at-work meeting that I’ve seen in our office in quite some time.
She talked about her experience striking points and she just does such a beautiful job in conveying it and the reason is because she really does it.
I think that the realness of her approach is the thing that connects with people.
Because she is a Weight Watchers person now.
She thinks about points she counts she thinks about different food choices.
I think that kind of authenticity does inherently have good staying power.
David it sounds like to talked a lot about by region and with the dotcom about sounded like revenues expectations for Q2 through Q4 are higher.
Can you talk a little bit about what your overall expectations are for revenue for Q2 through Q4? Even just directionally if you don’t want to go to numbers.
It sounds like you expect those numbers to be higher.
Is that right? Are you talking about Weight Watchers Online.
I am talking about the entire business.
It sounded like NACO rest of the year looks better CE UK looks better and online but just overall for the whole company does it all look better Q2 through Q4.
By definition with the guidance being higher obviously some of that’s happening at the top line.
If you think about it when you had a great Q1 as we did that certainly gave us $0.10 versus may what expectations was for Q1.
But really that recruitment drive delivers value throughout the course of the year in terms of top line and then bottom line growth.
From Q1 recruitment trends alone that by itself is going to drive top line.
Ann I don’t if you want to add some color.
I was just going to say the guidance that we gave last time was 15% to 20% on a full year revenue growth.
I think now you can think about it at the high end of that range.
Given the incremental investments you guys talked about SG&amp;A you said for the full year was going to be down as a percentage of sales but not all that much slightly and you said ads would be or marketing would be flat year-on-year.
Given that you are thinking revenues are going to be high all right but spending is going to be higher.
Do those two data points kind of hold for here.
If you look at marketing I’ll give you good examples.
We’ve able to be opportunities.
So for example we found out that Jennifer was going to be featured on the Grammy’s and that she was going to be part of the opening act doing the Aretha Franklin respect song and was getting good visibility.
So we jumped at the opportunity therefore to invest some advertising at the Grammy’s.
So as we see these types of opportunities we take them and we are continuing to be very aggressive of pursuing them with the understanding and belief that they are going to be concurrently driving enrollments.
So as we see opportunities like that we will take them and so for that reason it’s reasonable to expect marketing to stay fairly consistent as a percentage of revenue during the course of the year.
In some cases I can’t even rollout the possibility if we saw a greater opportunity and form.
We might jump at that to bring in some additional volume in to the business even knowing that the revenue that we get from some one we’d bring in form is mostly going to be in the following year where we’d recognizing all the expense associated with form.
But as we get into those types of decisions we’ll certainly share that with you guys on calls similar to what we share with men because that really has the same kind of affect.
In terms of G&amp;A as we referenced on previous calls and you heard a little bit of today.
The places where we are really investing in the business again it really comes down to technology.
There is not a single growth opportunity that we have that doesn’t have a meaningful technology component to it either in terms of application development or supporting systems.
So we are looking for opportunities to increase the pace of technology investments.
Certainly the retail rollout has some impact not as much on an EPS perspective because as Ann has pointed out the overall rent footprint if you will is fairly consistent because we are getting better terms as well as having more optimized meeting network.
But we are increasing CapEx associated with those centers.
The healthcare opportunity we are going to have to invest in front of in terms of bringing in new team of people that allow us to build that opportunity out.
So some of the incremental G&amp;A is going to come in the form of bodies that are going to be hugely productive for us going forward in to 2012 and 2013.
Those are the types of places where we are making those investments.
But I think still sort of a previous guidance with them providing is --.
And always mindful of not growing the core base of G&amp;A but always looking in terms of if we are going to increase G&amp;A its towards growth in the future.
Thank you for joining us today and I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! All participants thank you for standing-by the conference call is ready to begin.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Teleconference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterward you will be invited to participate in the question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this call is being recorded today August 5 2011.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Ms.
Sarika Sahni of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International’s second quarter 2011 conference call.
With us on the call are David Kirchhoff President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ann Sardini Chief Financial Officer.
At about 7:00 AM Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company’s financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company’s progress.
The press release is available on the company’s corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kirchhoff.
Please go ahead David.
Good morning and thank you for joining us as we review Weight Watchers International’s performance for the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
Weight Watchers continued to deliver excellent top and bottom line results from the second quarter driven by strong performance in our North America U.K.
and weightwatchers.com businesses.
Despite the impact of a late Easter and a tougher prior year comparable than in Q1 second quarter meeting enrolments in our NACO and U.K.
markets remained strong benefiting from effective marketing and sustained consumer interest in the Weight Watchers proposition.
In the second quarter sales for our Weight Watchers online products were once again at record levels.
On a constant currency basis Q2 2011 revenues grew 24% over the prior year period as compared to 28% revenue growth we experienced in the first quarter of this year.
Meeting fees were up 21% and Internet revenues grew 70%.
From the volume perspective combined global online and meetings paid weeks grew by 40% in the second quarter of 2011 versus the prior year period.
This historically high growth rate was virtually identical to what we experienced in the first quarter.
Q2 2011 paid weeks for our global meetings business grew 21% versus the prior year quarter.
Paid weeks for our Weight Watchers Online product grew by 73% versus the same period last year.
Q2 2011 EPS was $1.17 compared to $0.73 for the same period in 2010 a growth rate of 60%.
Favorable foreign currency drew $0.04%for this EPS gain.
I will now briefly review our results in our major geographies and business units.
First our North American meetings business total revenues in NACO which includes the U.S.
and Canada were $241 million in Q2 2011 up 23% on a constant currency basis versus the same period in 2010.
As expected the growth rate moderated somewhat from the unprecedented 34% growth rate versus the prior year period we experienced in Q1 as we began to lap the launch of our new marketing campaign Peter and Jennifer Hudson last year.
NACO meeting fees grew by 29% in Q2 2011 versus the prior year period entirely driven by volume growth.
And meeting product sales grew by only 5% versus the prior year quarter as we experienced softer results with our consumable products.
NACO Q2 2011 paid weeks grew 32% versus the prior year period while attendance grew by 20%.
As was the case in Q1 class sizes were up materially in our NACO meetings with average meeting average growth excluding our at work business of greater than 30% again the value of these larger meetings is threefold more vibrant meetings better compensation for service providers and higher gross margins.
As I noted earlier Q2 of last year marked the launch of our new marketing strategy.
Enrollment volumes in the second quarter of last year improved considerably versus the very weak trends we experienced in the first quarter of 2010.
This year second quarter comparable was also made tougher as a result of this year’s spring campaign starting three weeks later in April because of the timing of later Easter.
Our recruitment levels for this year therefore started more slowly in April and then returned to stronger growth rates in May and June as there is spring campaign headed straight.
Never member enrollment growth remained strong in the second quarter.
We are now on a seasonally quite time of year though we’ve been running TV advertising in July as was the case last year.
Despite some of the negative macro factors affecting consumers such as the weakening economy and falling consumer confidence we’ve continued to see solid enrollment growth during the first month of Q3.
As we look at the remainder of the year for NACO we expect to see continued strong results.
We have now wrapped the production of our fall marketing creative and we feel good about our marketing promotion plans that will commence in late August.
Our biggest challenge will come in the fourth quarter typically a seasonally low period.
When we begin camping the soft launch of PointsPlus which saw roughly 60% enrollment growth in December.
Well as a result we will see some deceleration in the growth between third and fourth quarters nonetheless we’re forecasting attendance growth in the high-single digits to low-double digits and paid-weeks growth of mid to high-teens for the second-half of this year.
Suffice to say that NACO team is appropriately focused on driving growth as we enter 2012.
We feel very confident in our ability to further build momentum in the NACO meetings business through a combination of one; building momentum in our marketing campaigns with the use of compelling creative affective media plans and strong PR.
Two improving what we believe is the best student activity behavior modification program in the world by launching at the end of 2011 a new version release of PointsPlus which one include improvements and new features.
And three benefiting from the rollout of our new store formats and improve real estate locations.
Now on to the international meetings business.
The second quarter for the U.K.
was marked by two very different periods for the beginning of the Q2 2011 enrollment levels were very soft versus the prior year as the result of the later Easter and interestingly the timing of the Royal Wedding.
As a result the U.K.
spring campaign did not start in earnest until the beginning of May at which point enrollments began to strengthen nicely.
The full effect of this was Q2 2011 U.K.
revenue growth of 16% on a constant currency basis.
Attendances grew 8% while paid weeks grew 16%.
In May of this year the U.K.
announced a significant change in its operating model.
In an effort to create an environment for even stronger levels of service and elevation we moved in this important market from a model of our leaders being independent contractors to one where our leaders are now employees.
As a result of the change we will now be able to further improve the quality of the member experience by increasing the support we can give our leaders through better training programs more effective coaching and enhanced service innovation efforts.
The U.K.
team has done an outstanding job planning for and managing through this challenging transition with virtually no loss of key staff nor interruption to their business.
Within that transition behind them the U.K.
team is now focused on further strengthening its marketing effectiveness and launching its own version of upgrades with highly successful score points program.
For the second half of this year we’re forecasting attendance growth in the low to mid-teens and paid weeks growth of 20%.
Moving on to Continental Europe without the benefit of an effective marketing program in 2011 we weathered another difficult quarter in our continental European business.
Overall CE revenues contracted 15% on a constant currency basis versus the prior year.
Paid weeks for the second quarter declined 13% while attendance has declined 18%.
Summer is an extremely slow time of Europe for Weight Watchers in Europe so it is difficult to accurately trends.
Nonetheless we believe our single stabilization of our CE business particularly in our largest markets of France and Germany.
And what we also believe to be an early indicator of improving business trends we saw strong growth in our sale of WeightWatchers on line throughout Europe in the second quarter.
Our CE team is now energetically looking toward the future while it prepares for 2012.
They have been emboldened by the success had been emboldened by this success of their colleagues in the U.K.
and NACO and Australia.
Our general managers in CE are actively working to apply the learnings that have been successfully developed in those other markets to inform the marketing strategy and innovation launches in their respective countries.
We are working with a Calgary of new aggressive advertising agencies in this region and we’re looking forward to presenting a fully revitalized face for the brand as we enter 2012.
This combined with a first upgrade to ProPoints since its launch two years ago sets us up well to reignite growth in this region in 2012.
While we are optimistic we will begin to grow our CE business in 2012 for the remainder of 2011 we expect to see some improvements in the negative volume trends we’ve been experiencing in this region.
With the second-half likely to report low double-digit attendance declines and mid-single digit paid weeks declines.
Moving on to WeightWatchers.com after its record first quarter in 2011 we continued to see excellent sustained growth in our WeightWatchers.com business despite much tougher comparables from the second quarter last year.
Q2 Internet revenues were up 70% on a constant currency basis versus the prior year period similar to the growth rate we experienced in the first quarter.
Paid weeks for the Weight Watchers Online product were up 73% for the second quarter of 2011 versus the prior year quarter.
And end of period online subscribers were up 68%.
Growth was strong across all of our markets including continued robust growth in North America.
It should be noted that Q2 2010 marked the beginning of a period of significant acceleration in our Weight Watchers Online product with end of period active subscriber growth of 26% in Q2 2010 versus Q2 2009.
Therefore the 68% growth rate we saw this Q2 was all the more encouraging.
As we noted on our last call we began the meaningfully advertised demand for the first time in Weight Watchers history in the spring of this year.
We ran a five-week advertising campaign featuring the Weight Watchers online for men products and TV advertising.
During this period we saw the men’s share of our U.S.
signups increased from 9% to 15% with year-over-year men’s sign up growth of greater than 150%.
Acquisition costs were somewhat more attractive than we had originally anticipated.
So we now expect a slightly less negative EPS impact of 2012 from this initiative.
To be specific we expect our men’s initiative will have a $0.09 negative EPS impacts in 2011 versus the $0.10 negative impact we experienced on our last call.
Based on this success we will be continuing this marketing effort in the fall.
It is now even more cleared that we are within reach of fully transitioning Weight Watchers from a brand predominantly for women to a brand clearly for all.
On the product development front we continued our pace of new platform launches most recently with a launch of our first iPad tracking application in the U.S.
U.K Australia and Canada in late June of this year.
Early feedback has been very positive.
Our technology team will continue its aggressive product release phase throughout this year most notably we are now working toward expanding the full suite of mobile applications to France and Germany in time for the winter advertising campaigns in early 2012.
For the second half of the year we are forecasting paid weeks growth of 50% to 55% for Weight Watchers online.
Our forecast includes the anticipated impact of camping against the unprecedented soft launch volume associated with PointsPlus last December.
Now I’d like to turn the discussion over to Ann who will elaborate further on our Q2 2011 performance.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
As David noted the second quarter of 2010 delivered strong results with growth rates in our key revenue and profit metrics on par with Q1 performance.
This was despite the tougher comparable that resulted from the positive shift in last year’s performance between the first and second quarters.
Our second quarter revenues were $486 million increased versus prior by 29%.
Operating income of $155.3 million increased by 38.5% outpacing the revenue growth.
Accordingly margins increased from a combination of higher growth in the higher margin weightwatchers.com business and operating leverage gains from higher attendances permitting.
Further our interest expense declined in the quarter by 23.3% and as a result the growth rate in net income exceeded the growth rate in operating income by 16 percentage points.
Net income in the quarter was $87 million up 54.4% or $30.7 million versus the second quarter 2010 level.
And EPS of $1.17 compared to $0.73 last year.
Reviewing now some of the details of our operational results.
As we noted in our last earnings call we came into the first quarter of 2011 with a significantly higher customer base than at the beginning of 2010.
And our recruitment in the first half of 2011 has been very strong.
As a result at the end of the second quarter our monthly passed customer base had grown by 30.8% and our online end of period active subscribers had increased by 68.4% as compared to the end of the second quarter of last year.
Accordingly our key revenue metrics paid weeks increased by 40.4% globally in the quarter versus prior.
On par in total and by business segment with the growth experienced in the first quarter of this year.
Second-quarter meeting paid weeks were up 21.5% and online paid weeks were 73.2% higher than the second quarter last year.
Global attendance increased by 10.6% in the second-quarter versus prior spurred by strong requirement in NACO of both new and returning members.
Despite the later Easter this year which delayed the start of our spring ad campaign NACO attendance was up 19.8%.
U.K.
attendance lagged a bit up 8.5% in the full quarter impacted by the Royal Wedding and surrounding holidays.
As David noted though post-Easter U.K.’s attendance growth rate moved back up into the teens.
Continental Europe which was lapping a prior-year program innovation and was without a marketing solution as yet posted an 18% decline in attendance in the quarter.
The online end of period active subscriber base was 1.8 million at the end of the second quarter.
I want to add a few additional comments about our online performance to provide some perspective both to the Q2 results and to what we can expect in this business for the rest of 2011.
Last year we saw a significant acceleration in trend in online sign-ups beginning in Q2 coincident with the launch of our new marketing campaign strategy.
The trend accelerated though the rest of 2010 culminating in the explosive sign-up growth that we saw in Q4 when we launched the new program in the U.S.
U.K.
and Australasia.
The impact on 2010 online paid weeks was growth versus prior which accelerated from 22% in the second quarter 2010 to 26% in the third quarter 2010 to 33% in the fourth quarter.
2011 has seen tremendous growth in the online business so far this year and we expected this business will continue to grow robustly.
But the dynamic of comping against a strong and accelerating trend in the third and fourth quarters of last year were likely result in some moderation of the paid weeks rate of growth in the second half of this year as compared to the first half of this year.
As David noted we expect online paid weeks to grow by 50% to 55% in 2H.
This compares to 73% in the first half of this year.
One other note on the dotcom over the past several months we have heard several questions about the relationship between the Weightwatcher Online volume trend and the traffic estimates provided by third party services most notably Comscore.
In our experience Comscore traffic data does not correlate well to our internal website tags or our signup volumes.
Turning back now to the overview of company operations and looking at the impact of strong second quarter volumes across the meetings in dotcom businesses.
On a consolidated company basis as we previously noted we have experienced overall Q2 revenue growth of 23.9% on the constant currency basis versus last year.
By segment revenues grew 16% in the meetings business and 69.8% in the weightwatchers.com business.
In the discussion as follows the growth percentages that I site will be on a constant currency basis.
Meeting seats and meeting product sales combined rose 15.9% in the second quarter to $342.2 million.
Meeting seats in the quarters grow robust 20.8% versus last year to $269.6 million with million with NACO up 28.7% on paid weeks growth of 31.9% and U.K.’s meeting fees up 23.9% with paid weeks growing 16.1%.
These increases were partially offset by performance weakness in Continental Europe.
In-meeting product sales however increased only 0.6% globally to $72.6 million despite 10.6% attendance growth.
For attendance in meeting product sales decreased 12.8% in NACO and 3.3% in the U.K.
Lower sales of consumable products were only partially offset by higher sales of enrolment products.
But as we entered Q3 early product sales attendance in NACO have rebounded.
In the weightwaters.com business revenues grew 69.8% in the second quarter to $105.7 million.
Sign-up growth was particularly strong in our two largest weightwatchers.com markets North America and the U.K.
Continental Europe led by France also posted strong signup growth in the quarter.
Our other revenues which are comprised primarily of licensing and franchise royalty revenues revenues from the sale of our product outside the meeting room and revenues from our publications were $38.2 million in the second quarter up $4.5 million or 8%.
The increase was driven by benefits from the program innovation.
For example franchise commissions and sale of products to our franchisees were up a combined 30% or $1.7 million.
In our buy mail product sales and revenues from our publications rose a combined 21.1% or $2.7 million over the prior year level.
Licensing revenues however decreased by 6.3% in the second quarter versus prior.
A 9.6% increase in U.K.
licensing was more than offset by declines in the U.S.
and continental Europe driven partially by price resistance in the challenging economic environment.
Our gross margin increased by 290 basis points in the quarter from 56.2% last year to 59.1% this year.
The improvement was the result of the scalable weightwatchers.com business becoming a larger component of our revenue mix and from 13.2% growth in the average attendances per meeting.
On our last call we mentioned that the men’s marketing initiative which began with our spring campaign in Spain the rest of the year was at $0.10 that cost to 2011 EPS it’s now $0.09 $0.04 of which falls in the second half of the year.
In order to provide further clarity on our second half expectations I thought it would be helpful to more explicitly layout some of the other investments we are making to benefit 2012.
These totaled $0.09 of net cost to EPS in the second half which to be clear has been included in our guidance since the Q1 results call in May.
First the NACO retail rollout 400 centers results in a $0.02 net cost to EPS in the second half of the year the full benefit of which will come in 2012.
Second we have undertaken a next wave of IT infrastructure investment with a focus on member data and business intelligence.
This investment had a cost of $0.03 to range EPS was enabled to reporting me the further development of our B2B in healthcare businesses and will generally provide a better understanding of customers’ behavior and needs.
We have also included expense related to building our B2B healthcare team and consulting fees associated with business development.
These totaled 2 cents of net cost to EPS in the second half.
And on the marketing front we have included incremental fourth quarter marketing in NACO at a cost to 2011 2H EPS of 2 cents.
Now just to wrap up marketing expenses for the second quarter fiscal 2011 were $75.2 million up 27.9% versus the second quarter of 2010.
The increase included $6.8 million for the aforementioned men’s online marketing campaign.
Further in this quarter Weight Watchers was rated the number one weight loss diet by U.S.
news and world report and we increased our marketing spend in TV and other media to leverage that news.
Overall excluding the men’s campaign our marketing for customer acquisition was down 4% in the quarter versus Q2 of last year.
Marketing expense as a percentage of revenue was 15.5% in the quarter up 50 basis points as compared to 15% in the prior year quarter but it was down 110 basis points if you exclude men’s marketing.
Selling general and administration expenses was $56.7 million for the second quarter of 2011 an increase of 26.5% versus the second quarter of 2010.
The largest component of the increase with salary related as we recorded higher bonus associated with our strong business performance.
In addition the quarter includes expense related to growth initiatives.
As I noted previously we have been adding to staff and consulting fees to build our business and we have upped the technology related investment.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for the second quarter were 11.6% as compared to 11.4% in the second quarter last year.
In summary our operating income margin grew 220 basis points in the quarter to 32% versus 29.8% last year.
Moving now to interest expense which was $15 million in second quarter down $4.6 million or 23.3% our effective interest rates decreased by 56 basis points from the second quarter 2010 level which was 5.03% to 4.47% in the second quarter of this year.
During the quarter we reduced our debt by $88.2 million bringing our balance to $1.16 billion and our trailing 12 months net debt to EBITDA is now 2.17 times.
Our cash flow from operations in the second quarter 2011 was $84.7 million before interest payments.
After capital expenditures of $13.5 million we had $71.2 million of free cash available to service our capital structure and return cash to our shareholders.
We paid our quarterly dividend of $12.9 million.
And in addition we made interest payments of $13.8 million and reduced by our debt by $88.2 million.
Finally a few words on share count.
In the second quarter of 2011 we have fully diluted shares outstanding of $74.4 million $2.5 million lower than the second quarter last year.
This decrease is mainly a result of the share buybacks that took place in 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 which reduced the number of shares outstanding.
Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in share count resulting from more of our previously granted options having stock prices that are now below the current stock price.
For the remainder of 2011 which we expect our fully diluted share count to be similar to the second quarter.
Now I’ll turn it back to David.
Thank you Ann.
We continue to be very pleased with the strength of our business in 2011 despite a still uncertain economy.
Growing in the phase of these headwinds was a testament to consumers’ interest in the Weight Watchers offerings and for the responsiveness towards strengthening marketing investments.
It is clear that our formula of combining products and service innovation with compelling marketing is a winning recipe that we can carry forward as we move into 2012 and beyond.
Growth across our meetings and Internet offerings in 2012 will largely be driven by continued strengthening of our proposition of consumers.
We see significant upside from improving marketing execution in our international markets and we fully believe that we can build upon and exceed the impact of our highly successful North American marketing efforts this year.
We are very encouraged by the early work being done in all of our upcoming marketing campaign for January 2012 around the world.
On the innovation front we are looking forward to improving upon our highly successful upgrades of our points program Pro Points and Points Plus.
All of our markets are playing meaningful version upgrades design to further improve what has already becoming a very most popular program ever.
We will build upon this by continuing to pursue an aggressive strategy of technology innovation to further improve believability and modernity of our offering.
The second driver for volume growth in 2012 would be to make a retail upgrade.
Throughout the first half of 2011 we’ve continued to see our two test markets Saint Louis and Tampa outperform their controlled markets with performed their control markets with 15% to 20% incremental enrollment growth.
The NACO team has made excellent strides in further improving the store design for 2011 versus a design for 2010 and they are still on track to have 400 centers or more than half of our U.S.
600 network upgraded by the end of this year.
This new retail footprint offers a benefit of immediate enrolment growth as well as providing a much fresher image for our brand.
While growth in 2012 will come from our efforts to enhance our value proposition for consumers we continue to believe that much of our longer term growth will be driven by more fully integrating Weight Watchers into the healthcare system.
Our nearest term opportunity in this area continues to be large employers who have the greatest incentive to address obesity in their work force.
To this end our NACO team has made significant progress on multiple fronts including revamping and further building our sales organization creating a corporate version of our monthly pass commitment plan and creating a data reporting system necessary to properly services channel.
We firmly believe that it is our destiny to be the service provider of choice for weight management solutions to this market.
We also recognize that we need to provide an outstanding level of service and support to these accounts.
Therefore our efforts in 2011 continue to be focused on building and strengthening our foundation of people systems and products so that we can be properly positioned to begin selling aggressively in 2012.
Guidance we are continuing to look for investment opportunities to help position us for growth in 2012 including our investment in men’s marketing retail infrastructure and system investments in the second half of this year.
However even after absorbing these investments given the strength of our financial results for the first half of the year we’re raising both the low and high ends of our previous guidance range in providing a new guidance range of 385 to 405 for fully diluted share for the full year 2011.
Of course this guidance assumes no meaningful deterioration of the economy in consumer settlement.
At this time operator we would like to take questions.
Thank you.
We’ll now take questions from the telephone lines.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question is form Chris Ferrara from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Hey Chris.
Hey Chris.
Can you guys talk about retention rates of never remembers you guys obviously consistently have been saying I think eight and half months for the meeting business and nine plus for the online business.
So can you just talk about the retention rates for the new people not just the – the new people and both on online basis and for the meeting business? Well.
Let me express it this way.
You know first half what we often see is brand new people who are coming to Weight Watchers are often coming with an extremely high level of enthusiasm that often translates in a very good results.
So historically we generally do not see a significant degradation of retention performance on nevers versus rejoins a few well.
What I can also tell you is that nevers as a percentage of our total mix has been higher this year in the first half compared to the first half last year.
Yet retention has been effectively spot on this year versus last year.
So if we look at sort of aggregate performance we haven’t seen any significant change in retention.
And that’s in natural the meeting business and the online business.
Correct.
Okay.
Assuming that’s obviously an important factor in driving growth going forward right I mean get that it’s been that way so far but there is nothing – I mean how do you think about it? Is that one of the most important factors that you watch right because this is a word of mouth momentum business right? I mean you need that number to hold over the longer term right not just at initial reaction into the business but you need these members to be repeat members and maintain that retention rate right.
Not to delever this point right but I imagine it’s something you watch closely and you’re trying to predict going forward as well? Well absolutely.
I mean and in fact is one of the things that we – one of the things that we have absolutely going for us as going into 2012 is we have built significant new installed base of members who are coming into Weight Watchers for the first time and historic pattern shows that when we do that we then get the benefit of them coming back to us as rejoining members either meetings or online going into the next year.
So recency in other words tends to be a strong predictor of our ability to enroll rejoining members and returning online subscribers.
And so we view that as an upside to our business as we go into 2012 and everything we’re seeing from their experience with the program I mean when we look at the experience the number of members are having for example in our meetings with PointsPlus and ProPoints without a doubt we are seeing some of our highest satisfaction rates with those folks.
And so based on that what we’re seeing is an incredibly positive response to the offering for the people that are coming into Weight Watchers for the first time and I agree with you it is important and I would note that it is one of the things that we will look to capitalize on as we continue building the business next year.
And can you give a sense of what that mix is between never-members and rejoined and then also that rejoining rate I know it’s really early but do you have any sense of what the rejoining rate is going to be I know historically you said 75% if you could just give a little color on that? Well okay.
A couple of points of clarity I mean so the split between members and rejoins obviously is going to vary in the meetings business from country to country and it also varies – it’s also going to be different in the online business which has many more new people coming into the brand for the first time.
So with the online business you will tend to see never is being a higher percentage of total mix and it will be a little bit lower in the meetings business when the mix was up I think historically we haven’t provided breakdowns by geography.
And in terms of returning rates the point I would make is that 75% statistic was for people who had already returned at least once the probability of them returning a second time.
And I would also point out that that statistic was also on a pre-monthly past world where you often had rapid rejoining rates in the enrollment cycles.
And so those dynamics have changed it hasn’t changed sort of the underlying likelihood of people returning to the brand but some of the exact percentages would therefore be a little bit different given the shift of mix between meetings and online and given the shift from pace to go monthly pass.
Ann… Obviously one other thing is there has been such incredible surge of returning members as well given the brand new program that – that’s the factor as well.
So when you kind of look at what proportion is our brand new to what proportion are returning when you have something like this tremendous growth in this new program.
That’s going to have an impact as well.
And is that what makes the lap so difficult as you move into the next quarter – sorry Q1 of next year that the fact you’ve such a large percentage of your total install base of meeting members that are in now and that number can’t possibly be as high as it is when you get into – when you start lapping Q1 is that the kind of the way to think about it? Oh no we haven’t characterized it that way at all.
You know – let me put it this way.
When I look at the first quarter of next year and I look at the things that we’re going to be – that we’re now working on doing is what we’ve launched in the first quarter of this year was a significant new platform that we think – substantially improved the quality of behavior modification we provide for our members.
By focusing not just on the energy equation but also focusing on more satisfying more nutritious choices and everything else.
And we believe that it is without a doubt be similar greatest behavior modification program that has ever existed on the planet earth for purposes of weight management.
We’re now going to take that program and make it even a little bit better and if you ask me if I think that is the recipe for growth going into the next year that is our starting proposition.
I mean you have to also realize that we have a great membership base but we are the only starch the surface of total dieters out there.
So there is a lot of opportunity.
And finally I think the other thing you – it’s also important to keep in mind and this is also a shift.
I mean for people that have been following the company for a long time five seven years ago when it was mostly a pace you go business the membership base itself fluctuated quite a bit.
Because when people would sort of stop the pending and stop paying $10 each week they would effectively sort of fall off the math if you will and were no longer officially members.
With monthly pass what we see is a significant smoothing of the membership base and so that actually improves our kind of retention of our membership are kind of of retention of our membership basis we proceed throughout the course of the year.
If you take that dynamic plus the surge of enrollments it would lead you to the conclusion that we should be ending this year with a stronger membership base than was the case last year so when we are sitting in October or November which gives us more to build from.
Okay and actually along those lines because the dot com right (inaudible) when I think about your guidance of 50% to 55% for the rest of the year right? If I’m simplistic about it and the paid weeks have generally mapped with the average period subscribers right? I mean if you do that when you look at the back you come into Q3 at $1.7 million or so and you just look into your growth rate and what it implies what your average attendance would be or your average enrollment would be and where you might end and your guidance suggest that you’re going to lose your couple of hundred 200 000 to 300 000 online members right? I’m just trying to understand how you’d think about that math right because that’s – it’s a pretty simplistic way of looking at it but that guidance does suggest that you’re going to lose sequentially in online members.
Well – no I think what the mathematical exercise you just laid out suggest that there are seasonal patterns to help people both sign up for Weight Watchers Online throughout the course of the year where you have more people signing up in the beginning of the year as opposed to the end of the year which has always been the case for Weight Watchers.
So given those dynamics you would expect the membership base – the online subscriber base to change throughout the course of the year.
Typically what we’ve seen with online and this business has been around since 2001 typically what we seen with online is that the subscriber base tends to peak call it and say April May it dips in summer because not as many people are signing up so it’s an inventory model rate so you’d have fewer people signing up.
But you still have the expected level of our retention churn.
It pops up a little bit in fall and then it drops a bit in November and December and so all that is kind of very typical math I think it’s important to understand is that the guidance that we gave 50% to 55% for the second-half – first-half as Ann pointed out then its camping 25% to 30% versus the previous year.
So last time I checked sort of like knocking up 50% to 55% over 25% to 30% is actually fairly nice growth.
The second thing I would tell you is that what’s behind those forecasts is expected strong sign up growth throughout the course of the year despite lamping what was truly kind of a crazy crazy crazy crazy December is that with all those things in play we still see an online business that remains growing at incredibly nice pace and looking very vibrant.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Sorry for hogging up the call.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning every one.
Hey Ken.
Can you talk a little bit about your preparations how difficult it is and what you are doing may be given that we don’t really know what’s going to happen with the economy right I mean how do you prepare for perhaps recovery and perhaps another recession at the same time I know the reason I am asking is you know by your own admission you got a little bit cut off guard as a lot of companies did a couple of years ago with the depth of the recession and then how do you think about that now and doing perhaps a little bit to be different job and there may be you did a couple of years ago? Well I would say I would say to you thanks first off in terms of what happen with the economy right now and obviously it’s on all of our lines given all those sort of super news yesterday with what happened to the market.
But I would point out there from a consumer perspective this notion that we were somehow on recovery might have resonated with folks on Wall Street but I’m not convinced it was ever particularly a germane point with people on the main street in that unemployment has remained high consumer sentiment has remained low consumer confidence has remained low.
So perhaps sort of the unsettling of what’s happening in the financial markets worldwide could further reduce that sentiment but I guess the point we would make is it’s not like the sort of average middle-class consumer was ever feeling particularly bullish about how things were going.
In terms of us and how we can be in this environment I would agree with you that with the opportunity that came to us frankly from living through the recession was what you saw with a lot of companies that had been able to come out stronger is that we raised our game.
And the best way I know to deal with a difficult economy is not to hide under a rock but rather to increase the pace of innovation to become more aggressive in marketing to look for opportunities to win in more different places and recognize that consumers haven’t stopped spending but they have tended to be willing to give a much bigger share of their market to high-value added products products that are being constantly innovated products that are – where companies who are constantly adding value to their products.
To us that is the recipe for how you win.
So if I look at the competencies of the Weight Watchers organization today versus what was the case even two or three years ago we took what was already a good company and we made the decision to take ourselves to a different level by becoming much more aggressive in the face of innovation and much more aggressive in the way that we approach marketing our brand.
And furthermore we continue to believe that the oddity of this recession is that it’s also created opportunities for us over the past couple of years in the real estate front.
It seems that that will continue to be the case so that will be an opportunity for us going forward.
And so we believe that doing things like taking advantage of the softer economy as a cost advantage way of rolling out our new retail network for example in North America is an opportunity where we as a company can kind of double down and invest in a tough economy add value to the brand add value to the experience by going into more convenient locations create opportunities by being open more hours to provide a higher level of service for our members and that those investment end up becoming very high ROI while creating new growth opportunity.
Thanks.
And then one more on men’s marketing it seems like about what you’re saying you’ve done a better than expected job with that.
I know it’s early what do you think some of the challenges are I think you are facing in terms of being a company that really hasn’t market into that demographic yet what have you learned so far and where do you think in specific terms that that level of marketing will go and is it something that you’ll have spokes people for where are you in that process? I guess I’m asking a lot of general questions just want to know more about the process there? The biggest thing I have learned is that we should have started sooner.
When we look at men I saw myself at a conference this past summer where I was almost tackled by a guy who had just joined Weight Watchers online.
He said his wife have been pushing him to do something about his weight and he had just made the decision to join that he was absolutely loving the product and it’s just – I share that story because it hasn’t just been one-time that I’ve experienced it it’s actually been a lot of times and his experience was that he literally was – just could not stop talking about how much he was loving doing Weight Watchers points.
It totally made sense to him and this is fairly well reflected and what we have been seeing for some time for Weight Watchers online for men online product is that our satisfaction scores were at least as high with men.
If not higher than what we are seeing even with women and so what we kept seeing is I think our assumption was well gosh maybe men or so much inclined to believe that Weight Watchers is a brand for women that we’re going to have to somehow claim over some unclimbable mountain in terms of sort of overcoming of perceptions but that actually hasn’t been the case.
And what we’re seeing based on the sort of first round of experience is that men are incredibly receptive to the idea of a Weight Watchers program designed for them that they’re willing to sign up for it and now we’re in a position where we’re looking at what is purely an awareness prospect.
And if you’re a marketer and what you have is a great product in which when you expose people to the existence of that product they respond to it and you just need to let them know i.e.
increase awareness that is the best of all opportunities because that is a very straightforward equation in terms of solving.
So as we look at it for that reason that’s why we’re continuing to push and fall and I think anybody could reasonably infer that we’re not going to stop.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Jerry Herman from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Jerry.
First question is about online.
Can you talk a little bit about the sources of subscriber acquisition there as you mentioned the acquisition costs were pretty favorable and you talked about the role of men but can you also talk in the dimension of mobility and what impact mobility has had on that business mobile devices and perhaps percentages that are either substantially or exclusively accessing with such devices? Well first off in terms of where online subscribers are coming from as you earlier pointed out we had a period of time in which one source of the new subscribers was men.
But obviously we’ve been seeing pretty huge growth rates even before that.
And what I would tell you is that it was coming from lots of different places – if you look at Google search trends which anybody can look on for the Weight Watchers brand it was –it’s been up pretty significantly throughout the course of this year.
So in other words a lot of people had been looking for it generally.
Our online advertising our advertising TV advertising campaign for Weight Watchers Online has been highly effective and we’ve contained a look for opportunities to either increase wape or find new weeks to advertise on.
So we’re more consistently on air and consistently out there raising awareness of the product.
And we’ve always been very aggressive in terms of employing the latest technology in terms of online advertising techniques.
Again we’ve been doing it since 2001.
So we’ve got team a team that’s gotten very good at it.
They do a terrific job in terms of leveraging Internet advertising to bring people in.
And then finally if you look at – social networking in everything else which has then becomes sort of the buzz Weight Watchers has been engaged with an online community for a long time.
We already have 800 000 likes on our U.S.
Facebook page.
We’re developing a good following on Twitter.
If you just generally look at kind of buzz in social noise around Weight Watchers it swamps any other weight management program out there by multiple magnitudes.
In terms of mobility mobility is another example of us looking for opportunities to make game changing shifts and deliverability and usefulness of Weight Watchers.
What I mean by that was that we didn’t develop an iPhone stroke Android stroke.
Now iPad application because everybody was doing it or we thought that we have to we did it because what we’ve recognized is that the more ubiquitous we can make Weight Watchers the easier we can make it to anywhere you are immediately finding out what’s in the different food how much you get for a different activity making it easier to track what you’re doing on an ongoing basis that those things will add value and convenience to the experience it will improve adherence and in fact things like the iPhone application we have already seen a significant pickup in the amount of tracking that happens through that device.
I do not have a statistic about how people are using them exclusively one versus the other.
I think what we tend to see because everything we do is fully synchronized in other words if I track something on my iPhone or iPad it shows up on the website is we have created kind of a technology ecosystem where people can access Weight Watchers anywhere anytime and that’s exactly what they tend to do.
So there might be some people out there that exclusively track or access the program via the iPhone App or the iPad App but I think there are many more people who use a combination of the above because different technology platforms tend to be suited for different occasions and different applications for someone who is following the program.
And a question about Points Plus obviously it’s being well received.
Can you talk about its efficiency what kind of results you’re getting or the users are getting out of that program relative to prior products? Yeah I mean the thing about this – the interesting thing for us about the efficacy of Points Plus was determining how to define efficacy.
And what we were attempting to do at PointsPlus was to increase the average weekly weight loss because we strongly encourage our members to make sure that they are managing their weight loss so that they are averaging one to two pounds not more weight loss per week.
And we’re already – we’ve already seen that.
So therefore for us what was in many respects more important in terms of the new program was not just the amount of weight loss in any given week somebody was following but rather were they shifting choices.
And what I mean by that were they shifting away from empty calories towards choices that were more nutrient dense and choices that were more satisfying.
That’s a more difficult thing to measure analytically which isn’t to say we are not going to look to do that but rather what I would say is anecdotally we absolutely say evidence all over the place that suggest that people who are following this new program are doing things like for example eating more non-processed foods fruits vegetables things like that.
And those behavior shifts we think are going to be absolutely critical as a long-term path toward addressing obesity in a more sustainable way.
Great guys.
I’ll turn it over.
Thank you.
The next question is from Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Yeah great thanks.
And you guys spoke about some of the drivers for 2012.
Is that one big one by far and then also for as you look to next year do you think word-of-mouth will help you at the start of the diet season next year.
If it’s – if it works like you’ve been talking about and do they join throughout the year as word-of-mouth gets out or is it kind of just – is it more a lumped in at – more in the January February timeframe? Do you mean let me make sure I understand your question which is does word of mouth do we see the benefit of it throughout the course of the year or does it tend to come primarily focused in particular months of the year was that the question? Yeah exactly.
I think word of mouth is a very organic thing obviously because that is just people having conversations.
And so people are having conversations all the time and they will be having conversations so if I’m losing weight and people are seeing me lose weight they are going to ask me well you look great? What you have been doing? And that’s when I talk about the fact that I’m doing Weight Watchers.
And so that weight loss experience is happening throughout the course through the year so therefore you would reliably expect word of mouth to happen throughout the course of the year.
So there is always going to be a certain level out there right? Now in terms of conversation are there certain times that people in general are more likely to be talking about doing something about their weight than others of course there are.
So you will tend to see lots of people chattering about weight come January.
You will see people chattering about coming off of their summer vacations and so what I would say is that word of mouth and sort of just kind of general social noise will tend to popup more in seasonally high periods.
And for next year is there one big factor do you think that that kind of overshadows the rest in terms of drivers that we should be looking for for next year? Well I think in terms of next year in general what we would expect and want to see with any kind of major new resurgence or program or anything else would be word of mouth building overtime.
And it is something that does tend to build overtime.
And so in terms of how you think about next year I am struggling in terms of specific guidance to give you other than to say that we are of course going to be doing things that are going to for example embracing social networking and technology and sort out.
If you are on a website over your Facebook or whenever might be the case that try to encourage in looking at opportunities to build marketing campaigns that around bring a friend or things that sort of nudge people to get others engaged in the process and so that’s always part of it.
But I think word of mouth at the same time when you look at it give or take historically about 70% of the people for example that are enrolling in a Weight Watchers meeting are doing so on the recommendation of a friend or family member.
So I mean it’s such an endemic part of who we are and why people come to us that it’s kind of an always present thing.
Right.
And I guess that question was more towards all of your initiatives not necessarily just word of mouth is it kind of – kind of renovations of your storefronts and all inclusive in terms of what you think the biggest driver for 2012 will be? Certainly as you look at it I mean honestly I think it’s going to be kind of combination of all the above particularly on the consumer side.
Particularly in the beginning of the year those are going to be the most right now opportunities are going to be the things that we are doing via marketing the things are going to be doing with the version upgrades on the program is certainly where we expect to have begun getting some traction from the retail efforts as we go into next year.
In terms of the healthcare opportunities the so called the B2B space if you will and bringing into accounts again 2011 is very heavily focused on foundation building to make sure that we can do a good job in serving those accounts sort of we can do a good job in serving those accounts.
So you know aggressive selling is really likely to pick up steam beginning in 2012 so I think more reasonably you would expect that to build over the course of the year.
Yes.
I mean just in support of what David was saying we’re not relying on any one thing for 2012.
We have a combination of a lot of things which will work together and that’s our strategy.
Good.
That’s helpful.
And just two other questions.
I’m assuming that based on your guidance that the strong momentum that you saw in NACO attendance and just your overall kind of number of dieters that are on your program now.
That momentum is going to continue into July have you seen any type of material drop off or anything has it been pretty strong and steady? Well.
I mean I think what we’ve said in our prepared remarks was that July is a kind of summer sort of a tough time to predict just because with everybody going on vacation everything else it is a seasonally low period.
So it can sometimes feel a little bit reading tea leaves.
We usually get a much better beat on what’s happening on the business when we’re in kind of major marketing campaigns.
But certainly if we look at as you heard us say in our remarks certainly for example we look at NACO during over the course of the summer we saw of sort of good solid nice enrollment trends throughout July in terms of positive growth.
Okay good.
Good to hear.
And finally just plans for maybe taking pricing in NACO during 2012? We’re always looking at pricing year in and year out as all good responsible organizations do.
Certainly the nature of the economy where the consumer has made us be somewhat hesitant to do too much of pricing although we did take pricing in 2010 on our U.S.
WeightWatchers on line product.
In terms of long term we absolutely see head room for pricing growth in particularly as we look for more more ways to continue adding value to the experience for both meeting members as well as online subscribers and so we see opportunities to do that in front of us but we certainly haven’t announced anything for 2012.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Gary Albanese from Capstone Investments.
Hi good morning everybody.
I was just wondering about you could talk about the gross margins.
Obviously there were pretty sizably in the quarter.
Can you talk about the sustainability of those levels and how you see it trending through the rest of the year? Sure the gross margin in the second quarter obviously was nice and robust and we saw growth.
The slight aberration was in the first quarter where we invested pretty heavily and making sure that our program in the meeting room was fully supported and that we had sufficient staff to deal with both new members and members who would have been there but before.
But the going forward for the rest of the year I think the second quarter is a good benchmark for what we’ll see in terms of gross margin.
Okay.
And looking in your overseas.
How are you guys hedged overseas operations where – you lean in terms of currency hedging or not? Yes yes.
We are not.
And not to try to I guess let the secrets of the bag but with the products that you are talking about for 2012 the tweaks are these going to be tweaks to the existing offering or is it going to be sort of add-ons to what you have? I am afraid to say that that would in fact be letting the secrets out of the bag.
So what I would tell you is that we are looking and we believe we have identified a variety of different ways to add value to the products and so that is we have Weightwatchers online or meetings in the program.
What is our typical pattern is as we get closer to the actual launch so called around numbers we feel a little bit more comfortable about exactly what we are doing but for competitive reasons we stay pretty quiet at this point of the year in terms of very specific things that we are doing.
Okay.
I just want to make one point of clarification I want to make sure that I made it clear that when I was talking about gross margin the level will fluctuate over the next two quarters because the second quarter is seasonally high.
The growth in gross margin or expansion in gross margin will be similar across the rest of the year.
Okay I understand.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
You have a follow-up question from Ken Goldman.
Please go ahead.
Ann you just answered my question but I’ll ask one more instead.
Can you talk a little bit more about the UK employee change whether that leads you to thinking about doing that anywhere else in the world or whether that’s strictly in the UK? Every country has its own unique circumstances in terms of the labor market labor laws labor rules different flexibility we have with different models and different approaches as well as different characteristics in terms of the nature of our leader force in those respective countries.
So we truly treat each country on a case-by-case basis.
Works in the U.S.
might be very different from what works in Belgium and versus the U.K.
So the U.K.
I would say was not necessarily part of some of the overall trend but rather a reflection of what we believe made the more sense for that particular country.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
I would now turn the meeting back to Mr.
David Kirchhoff.
Thank you for joining us today.
And I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
And we thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International third quarter 2011 earnings teleconference call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards you will be invited to participate in the question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today November 8 2011.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Sarika Sahni of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
And thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International’s third quarter 2011 conference call.
With us on the call are David Kirchhoff President and Chief Executive Officer and Ann Sardini Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:00 PM Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with further details regarding the company’s financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company’s progress.
The press release is available on the company’s corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kirchhoff.
Please go ahead David.
Good evening and thank you for joining us as we review Weight Watchers International’s performance for the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
Weight Watchers had another solid quarter benefiting again from strong performance in the North America and UK in WeightWatchers.com businesses.
The initial launch of our new program is now well behind us and it was gratifying to see continuing strength in the business and high levels of consumer interests in our brand and unique approach to weight management.
Once again volumes in WeightWatchers.com were very strong which further contributed to robust topline growth margin expansion and excellent bottom line results.
On a constant currency basis Q3 2011 revenues grew 26% over the prior-year period as compared to the 24% revenue growth we experienced in the second quarter of this year.
Meeting fees were up 19% and internet revenues grew 65%.
From a volume perspective combined global online and meetings paid weeks grew by 38% in the third quarter of 2011 versus the prior-year period.
This is very similar to the volume growth we achieved in the second quarter of this year.
Q3 2011 paid weeks for our meetings business grew 20% versus the prior-year quarter while paid weeks for our online business were up 67%.
Q3 2011 EPS was a $1.9 compared to $0.59 for the same period in 2010 a growth rate of 84%.
Favorable foreign currency drove $0.02 of this EPS gain and we also benefited from a $0.05 tax benefit from our international operations.
I will now briefly review our results in our major geographies and business units.
First our North American meetings business.
Total revenue in NACO which includes the US and Canada were $208 million in Q3 2011 up 23% in a constant currency basis versus the same period in 2010.
This growth rate was virtually identical to what we had experienced in Q2 of this year.
NACO meeting fees grew by 25% in Q3 2011 versus the prior-year period entirely driven by volume growth.
And meeting product sales grew by 22% a significant improvement from the 5% growth rate we experienced in Q2 of this year benefitting from new product launches as well as good growth in our enrollment products.
NACO Q3 2011 paid weeks grew 26% versus the prior-year period while attendances grew by 14%.
This growth rate reflected somewhat of a moderation of the growth rates we experienced in Q2.
Our average class size was up 20% versus the prior-year which helped contribute to stronger gross margins in the NACO business.
Enrollments remained double-digit positive for most of the quarter with the exception of a few weeks in August when the combination of the debt filling debate and the US credit rating downgrade seemed to dominate the news and we had a negative impact on consumer confidence.
In September we saw enrollment levels bounce back nicely as we benefitted from effective marketing as well as the publicity around the release of a clinical study published in the Lancet globally one of the most respected medical journals.
The Lancet study was a breakthrough publication for Weight Watchers.
This large randomized clinical trial was led by investigators from the Medical Research Council of the University of Cambridge in the UK.
The study was conducted in the UK Germany and Australia with close to 800 people on the sample.
In the study doctors would randomly refer an overweight and typically obese patient to either Weight Watchers meetings or to a standard care program led by a primary care provider.
After 12 months participants in the Weight Watchers arm achieved two times the weight loss and were more than three times more likely to achieve a 10% weight loss as compared to the standard care group.
The study demonstrated the power of the partnership between doctors and Weight Watchers to have significant impact on patient success.
Moreover just this past Friday another publication The British Medical Journal released a new study further validating Weight Watchers superior to weight management.
These studies clearly demonstrate our ability to be among the most effective tools for addressing part line obesity.
Our clinically proven efficacy combined with the fact that our program is highly cost effective and scalable adds further evidence to our unique ability to positively impact obesity.
As of mid October we went off the air from an advertising standpoint as we entered into the traditionally quite holiday period that starts with Halloween and runs through Christmas.
At the end of November we will begin with lapping soft launch of Points Plus a period of exceptional PRM buzz that resulted in an unusual spike of enrollments during the last week of November and the first two weeks for December last year.
We do not expect to see similar numbers this year as we are not undertaking a program launch on a magnitude of Points Plus.
Further we estimate that four to five percentage points of our attendance growth in Q4 last year came from existing paying members mainly monthly pass members who otherwise may have been less engaged during this time of the year coming to the meeting rooms in large numbers to pickup their new program materials and learn about the changes.
This affect accounted for approximately two-thirds or the 6.5% attendance growth we experienced in Q4 of last year.
Given the unusual spike in enrollment and its abnormally high return rate of our existing members last year for Q4 this year we expect paid weeks growth of 10% to 15% in flat attendance.
This outlook is consistent with our previous forecast.
Now on to the international meetings business.
After a relatively slower July and August the UK business bounced back with double digit growth rates since September.
As a result it delivered a very strong Q3.
The UK saw third quarter revenue growth of 21% on a constant currency basis versus the prior year period with paid weeks growth of 18% and attendance growth of 10%.
With a better marketing campaign the UK team was able to deploy a stronger media play in the Q3 of this year compared to last year.
This in turn resulted in significant enrollment growth in September which continued through the remainder of the campaign in October.
Like NACO the UK will begin comparing the launch of its new program ProPoints beginning in early November.
However the strength of its October enrollment growth will more than compensate and we expect this business to generate Q4 paid weeks’ growth in the mid-teens as well as mid-single digit attendance growth.
Moving on to Continental Europe.
CE is finishing what has been a difficult year as it has been re-tolling its marketing and program efforts behind the scenes in preparation for 2012.
Overall CE revenues declined 10% in Q3 on a constant currency basis versus the comparable prior year quarter an improvement versus the trend we saw in Q2.
Paid weeks declined 6% and attendances declined 15% also improvements on Q2 trends.
The CE team has spent this year focus on two areas; One preparing for a significant upgrade of its now two year old ProPoints program and two upgrading its marketing capabilities.
They have made excellent progress on both fronts and we’re excited for our prospects in this market as we enter 2012.
As you may recall unlike our marketing execution concurrent with the launch of our new programs in the US and UK the CE marketing campaigns failed to entice newer members to join Weight Watchers in large numbers something we hope to make progress on beginning in January 2012.
As an important side observation we have seen the influence of the notable [Fat Diet] in France declined significantly in the back half of the year.
We believe that we now have an opportunity to help the people in that country adopt a much more balanced and sensible approach to managing their food choices as they move away from this extreme diet.
For the remainder of the year we are forecasting Q4 paid weeks and attendance declines in high-single digits.
Moving on to WeightWatchers.com.
Once again we have seen another outstanding quarter for WeightWatchers.com with significant growth across virtually every market.
Q3 2011 internet revenues were up 65% on a constant currency basis versus the prior year period.
Paid weeks for the Weight Watchers online product grew 67% in the third quarter and end of period active subscribers were up 64%.
This growth is on top of the 26% paid weeks growth we experienced in Q3 of last year.
New sign of growth were up and third quarter was strong and September was particularly strong benefiting from higher marketing investment and from continued interest in our products for both men and women.
We again advertised our Weight Watchers online for men product in the fall with excellent response.
Men now account for approximately 15% of our Weight Watchers online sign up volume in the US despite the fact that our awareness with this population is still relatively low and we have yet to hit our stride in terms of marketing and PR targeting them.
As we end the year we will be launching numerous enhancements to the website and new mobile functionality and preparation for 2012.
We believe that these changes will further enhance our value proposition for both our Weight Watchers online product and for our Monthly Pass commitment plan as we enter the new year.
As is the cases in our NACO and UK meetings businesses we will experience a relatively high sign up comparable in late November and early December as we left the soft launch of the new programs in the U.S.
and UK.
Despite this we’re now forecasting online paid weeks growth for Q4 at 55% to 60%.
It is worth noting that for the full year we’re forecasting revenues for WeightWatchers.com business of approximately $400 million a 66% improvement over fiscal 2010.
It is also worth noting that this business unit will likely contribute over $200 million of operating income for the company in 2011.
Now I would like to turn the discussion over to Ann who will elaborate further on our Q3 2011 performance.
Thank you David and good evening everyone.
The third quarter of 2011 delivered strong results with strong growth rates in our key revenue and profit metric and a significant increase in operating leverage.
Our third quarter revenues for $428.4 million on a consolidated company basis an increase of 29.6% or 26.2% on the constant currency basis versus the third quarter of last year.
Revenue growth was driven by the significantly higher membership base coming into the quarter as compared to Q3 of last year as well as by customer recruitment growth within the quarter.
Operating income was $138.3 million increasing by 52.9% and out pacing the rate of revenue growth.
We delivered 490 basis points of operating income margin improvement in the quarter primarily as a result of gross margin expansion.
I’ll provide the details around our operating leverage later in this report.
Net income in the quarter of $80.7 million was up 81.5% versus last year increasing at even higher rates in the growth in operating income which was spread resulting primarily from $5.4 million of lower interest expense than last year and the $3.5 million one-time tax benefits.
EPS of a $1.09 was up $0.50 from $0.59 in the third quarter of last year.
Our third quarter 2011 EPS was positively impacted by $0.05 from the one-time tax benefits and by $0.02 from favorable foreign currency exchange rate.
While in the third quarter of 2010 EPS was reduced by $0.05 charge from the settlement of a previously disclosed California litigation.
Now I’ll provide some of the details of our operational results.
As we noted in our last earnings call we came into this year with a significantly higher customer base and at the beginning of 2010 in both our meetings and WeightWatchers.com business and a momentum of customer recruitment accelerated in the first half of 2011.
By the end of this year’s third quarter our Monthly Pass customer base had grown by 20.8% and our online end of period active subscriber base had increased by 63.6% as compared to the third quarter of 2010.
Accordingly our principal revenue metric paid weeks increased by 38.1% globally in the quarter on a consolidated company basis just slightly below the historical high growth level experienced in the first half of this year.
In our meetings business third quarter paid weeks we exclude by 19.7% versus prior to $24.9 million and globally we had $12.6 million attendances an increase of 8.7% versus prior.
In the WeightWatchers.com business paid weeks increased by 66.6% versus the year ago quarter but at a slightly lower growth rate than in Q2.
Sign up growth continues to be strong and end of period active subscribers for the online product were $1.7 million at the end of the third quarter.
The moderation in paid weeks growth in the third quarter versus earlier this year is the result of comping against the strong and accelerating growth rate last year in sign up and in the results in paid weeks.
2010 paid weeks were up 22% in the second quarter versus prior 26% in the third quarter and by the fourth quarter the growth rate had increased to over 33%.
This dynamic of comping against accelerating growth in the prior year will likely result in the further moderation of the WeightWatchers.com fourth quarter paid weeks growth rate that David mentioned in his remarks to 55% to 60%.
Looking now at the impact of these volumes on our financial performance as all the growth rate sided the midpoint on a constant currency basis unless otherwise noted.
Our consolidated company third quarter revenue growth versus prior was 26.2% was comprised of 18.4% in the meeting business and 65.1% growth in the WeightWatchers.com business.
In the meetings business meetings fees and in meetings product sales combined rose 18% in third quarter to $294.7 million.
Meetings fees in the quarter grew a robust 90.3% versus last year to $233.4 million with NACO up 24.6% and UK up 24.9%.
Increases in these markets were partially offset by performance weakness in Continental Europe.
In meetings product sales increased to $61.3 million globally up 13.6% outpacing the quarters 8.7% attendance growth with strength in sales per attendee.
Our higher-priced enrollment products sold well in the quarter particularly in NACO where product sales per attendee were up 7.3%.
UK product sales per attendee were up 3.4%.
In the WeightWatchers.com business the 65.1% revenue increase in the quarter to $101.9 million was bolstered by strong sign ups in our two largest markets North American and the UK but also contributed to by sign of strength in Continental Europe led by France.
Our other revenues were $31.9 million in the third quarter up $4.5 million or 12.4% versus prior.
Other revenues include franchise commissions and sales of products to our franchisee which were up a combined 30.3% or $1.3 million and sales of our by mail products and revenues from our publication which rose a combined 21.5% or $1.9 million over the prior-year levels.
Licensing revenues however decreased by 1.1% in this third quarter versus prior and 8.9% increase in UK licensing was more than offset by declines in the US and Continental Europe driven partially by price resistance in a challenging economic environment.
Our gross margin increased by 460 basis points in the quarter up from 54% last year to 58.6%.The improvement was the result of the WeightWatchers.com business whose cost of revenues are largely fixed becoming a largely component of our revenue mix and also the result of the 12% growth in the average attendance per meeting in this year's third quarter versus prior.
Marketing expenses for the third quarter fiscal 11 were $61.5 million up 52.7% versus the third quarter of 2010.
Of this increase 13% represents the amount spend for the aforementioned men’s online marketing campaign.
The remainder of our marketing in the quarter drove subscriber growth in our WeightWatchers.com business and enrolment growth in our meetings business in North America and the UK.
Marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues were 14.4% in the third quarter of 2011 as compared to 11.9% in the prior year quarter.
Selling general and administrative expenses were $51.4 million for the third quarter of 2011 an increase of 2.5% versus the third quarter of 2010 which included $4.9 million of expense associated with the settlement of the California litigation.
In this quarter selling general and administrative expenses increased 14% primarily in support of growth initiatives including technology for the development of our mobile platforms and additions to staff in support of B2B healthcare business development.
Selling general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for the quarter decreased to 12% from 14.7% in the third quarter of 2010.
In summary our operating income margin grew by 490 basis points in the quarter to 32.3% versus 27.4% last year.
Moving now to interest expense which was $13.7 million in the third quarter down $5.4 million or 28.3% a combination of a lower effective interest rate and lower debt outstanding.
Our effective interest rates decreased by 63 basis points from the third quarter 2010 level of 5.06% to 4.43% primarily as a result of the decline in the notional value of our interest rate swaps.
Since the third quarter of last year we’ve reduced our average debt outstanding by $273.4 million down from $1.4 billion on average in the third quarter 2010 to $1.2 billion on average in the third quarter of this year.
Our Q3 2011 cash flow from operations before interest payments was strong.
At $132.8 million after CapEx of $10.4 million we had $122.4 million of free cash available to service our capital structure and to return cash to our shareholders.
In the quarter we paid our quarterly dividends of $12.9 million.
We made interest payments of $12.8 million and we reduced our debt by $96 million.
Our debt outstanding at the end of third quarter 2011 was $1.07 billion and our trialing 12-month net debt-to-EBITDA was 1.81 time.
Before wrapping up as on our last call I will spend a few minutes reviewing the 2011 financial impacts of some of the operating initiatives and investments that we’ve been making to benefit the business in 2012 and beyond.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 these investments having net cost to EPS of $0.12 to $0.13 $0.07 of which was reported on our last call and an additional cost of $.05 to $0.06 which represents marketing investments that we have added in the fourth quarter.
In our last call we noted that we began advertising our online to men with our spring 2011 campaign and plan to continue through the fall campaign resulting in a $0.09 net cost to 2011 EPS $0.01 of which is related to the fourth quarter portion of our fall campaign.
In addition we communicated that we were planning to up our fourth quarter NACO spend by the equivalent of $0.02 EPS for production and early support of the Winter 2012 campaign.
As we have now finalized our fourth quarter marketing spend including preparing activities associated with our upcoming Winter 2012 campaign our total marketing expenses should come in $0.05 to $0.06 above what we previously forecasted.
The investment areas that remained unchanged from the levels cited in our last call with respect to the NACO retail centers and the developments of our B2B healthcare business.
In terms of our NACO retail center initiatives we expect greater than 50% of our NACO retail centers to be fully upgraded by the end of this year.
This results in a $0.02 net cost to EPS in the second half of the year $0.01 of which falls in the fourth quarter.
Finally we’re continuing our work to enable the development of our B2B in healthcare businesses which include a next wave of IT infrastructure investments as well as expense related to building our B2B healthcare team.
The IT investment is focused on member data and business intelligence with a view toward creating the reporting needed for this businesses as well as toward generally providing a better understanding of our customer’s behavioral needs which creates the opportunity for enhanced personalization.
This combined investment for IT and the business team is still projected at the second half cost of $0.05 to EPS $0.03 of which is being spent in the fourth quarter.
Now I’ll turn it back David.
Thank you Ann.
We expect to finish 2011 with the strongest financial performance in our history.
Despite shaky consumer confidence across all of our markets we achieved robust growth in our US and UK meetings businesses and we drove our WeightWatchers.com business to new heights.
The brand has never enjoyed more popularity despite the presence of aggressive competition and the uncertainty of the economic environment.
We are very cognizant of the fact that at the end of this year we will begin camping against this resurgence of growth.
There is no doubt that the launch of Points Plus in North America and ProPoints in the UK last year resulted in significant growth enrollment particularly in Q1.
As we enter 2012 we’ll remain cautious about an uncertain economy in addition we fully assume competition from other commercial weight loss competitors will be robust.
To this end we have been working aggressively to meet this challenge of driving growth in 2012 while also staying focused on supporting those initiatives to drive growth in 2013 and beyond.
Specifically we are very focused on executing well on early 2012 initiatives including; one continuing to execute strong marketing.
We will be launching new marketing campaigns which we believe will be our best yet in all of our major markets in the New Year.
We are very exited about these campaigns which will be supported by effective PR and we expect they will deliver strong cut-through and ensure that we stay top of mind with consumers.
Two improving our programs.
We believe that the Points Plus and ProPoints are the best behavior modification weight management programs that have ever existed.
Our strategy is to take these programs and make them even better.
For this coming January we will be launching new upgrades of Points Plus and ProPoints and NACO in the UK respectively and an even more major upgrade of the current program in CE.
Three accelerating our retail transformation.
By the end of this year we expect a greater than 50% of our NACO retail centers to be fully upgraded in either location and/or design with a vast majority of the upgrades occurring between now and the end of the year.
Our test markets for retail transformation have shown excellent high teens incremental growth over control through the third quarter.
Four continue to drive our WeighWatchers.com business.
This highly scalable product line continues to grow rapidly in all of our major markets with the scale we now have or able to continually invest in greater content and new features and functionality.
Additionally in 2012 one immediate opportunity will be attracting more men to Weight Watchers online.
For the longer term much of our focus will be on continuing our efforts to better integrate Weigh Watchers in to the healthcare system.
We’ve made significant progress this year on multiple fronts; one clinical evidence.
The Lancet study was an important milestone for us which has been further supported by the recent study by the Bridge Medical Journal.
Both studies clearly demonstrate the high level of the efficacy of Weight Watchers versus other approaches.
Two sales and operational capability.
NACO has made significant progress in creating new sales account management and IT capabilities and has major new corporate account wins with large self insured employers to show for it.
We will continue to vigorously pursue our strategy of reaching the day in which doctors can easily refer Weight Watchers to the patients knowing that they are covered under their health plans.
We are not there yet but we believe we can find a path that get us there.
When this happens we believe that it will open up a substantial new channel for giving new customers engaged with us.
As we have said so many times before there is no other organization on earth that can match our ability to deliver educational and behavior modification for weight management with our combination of efficacy cost effectiveness and scalability.
Guidance; given our year-to-date performance and our forecast for Q4 we now expect to deliver full year earnings per fully diluted share of $4.05 to $4.10.
At this time operator we would like to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Bob Craig of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
David first question is on customer retention and the last question this way you may prefer to answer it a different way but when you look at the pool of members that you signed up early this year any indications to what percentage of those are still customers and has and how is that tracked versus your expectations and/or historical trends? What I would say is this is that despite the higher level of enrollment levels in some of our core markets for example the US and UK we have not seen any material change in retention patterns.
In other words the expected retention that we have been seeing historically for monthly pass for example in NACO has not changed this year and comparably if you look at Weight Watchers online we’re also seeing very consistent retention trends.
And so what I would say is that everything has been very much to our expectations.
And second question I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color in terms of sizing up the corporate and healthcare effort and the resource that is being channeled there in terms of the sales force in terms of customer wins and also two has the Lancet study sparked additional interest in that regard? The answer to the last question is absolutely.
I think the significance of the Lancet study and then the follow-up study which is the British Medical Journal in the BMJ its also worth noting that we have absolutely nothing to do with it; it wasn’t funded or sponsored by Weight Watchers any way have performed yet the results for the outcome were very consistent.
And if you look at the results of those two studies what they demonstrated is that in terms of addressing and making meaningful change in weight loss and addressing obesity that you know a portion of obesity is one of lifestyle which requires us to change the way we interact with our environment out in the world and what it showed is that its very difficult condition to address in a clinical setting.
And therefore that’s why you saw Weight Watchers delivering such a higher level of efficacy and if you look at the companion op-eds and both of those journals their perspective on that was very consistent that you know programs likely Weight Watchers and Weight Watchers in specific were pretty uniquely positioned in terms of delivering weekly education and behavior change.
But you know from my perspective even more important of that is that when you have the combination of doctor referring to Weight Watchers you saw basically a bunch up effects because the doctors uniquely position to create kind of call the action and Weight Watchers is uniquely positioned to deliver the behavior change.
Having that kind of clinical data is critically important when we call major corporate accounts because it demonstrates what they are already knew intuitively which is frankly what’s in our tag line which is quite simply the Weight Watchers works.
Having a clinical background behind that in the eyes of Chief Medical Officers at major corporations and HR Executives is really important part of equation.
And so all of these things are continuing to be kind of a pool of evidence that makes our proposition stronger and stronger.
To answer your first question in terms of where we are in the sales organization of major account wins in terms of the sale organization we’ve started this year with a very talented VP of sales and he in turn has been building a team underneath him of some very capable account managers who are now in the process of getting some big wins.
I would share with you more of the names of those accounts but at this point we haven’t clear that for public release with those accounts.
But what I can tell you is that it has been very helpful in terms of giving us really good operational experience in terms of much larger scale accounts than we typically have had.
And it’s giving us critical learning in terms of knowing how to scale up our account management practice and all the operational requirements associated with that.
So that we can look toward 2012 as the year in which we begin accelerating the pace of account wins and inclusion and really begin to drive a key part or component of the healthcare segment which is appealing to large self-insured plans in other words large corporations as kind of the lowest hanging fruit as part of our broader effort to achieve critical mass in the healthcare channel.
That’s very helpful.
Last question and I’ll turn it over and thank you again for the break out of expenses but when you look at those major buckets of 2011 spending how was that likely to trend in 2012 less spending the higher lower or relatively flat year-over-year?  That’s such a good question Bob but we’re really not talking right now about our 2012.
We really can't provide any help with that.
I'm sorry.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Boorady of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon everybody.
My question is just on the retention rates.
I just want to make sure I was clear on the response the last question.
If you can just talk about how retention rates have trended for new versus returning members for the weekly monthly and online? The way we track retention is we look at aggregate.
We focus principally on aggregate retention rates across all of our customer base including both brand new customers who have never been to Weight Watchers before as well as rejoins.
So we generally have sort of kind of a regular metric we look at the aggregate.
And what I am saying is that the aggregate for both meetings monthly pass as well as Weight Watchers Online if you look at retention on a month-by-month basis across enrollment cohorts it’s been very consistent.
So we really haven’t seen any change or any meaningful change in retention in 2011 versus 2010 despite the fact for example in monthly pass you have the surge of newer members that we haven’t seen before.
We’re still seeing very consistent trends.
So retention has proven itself to be very predictable in the business this year compared to last.
And also the price increase which – I am wondering did that have any impact.
Would we able to keep the same retention rates even with the price increase? Yes and for those who may not have been focused on this we did pass a $1 price increase for the US Weight Watchers Online product in September of this year.
We went from $17.95 to $18.95.
Since that happened in September we were really kind of only 6 weeks away from that give or take.
You really – it’s really way to early to make a call on the impact that it’s having on retention.
What I can tell you is that when we have done taken price with Weight Watchers Online in the past we generally haven’t really seen any impact at all in terms of retention rates and we certainly in terms of sign up volumes for Weight Watchers Online as we look at the late September through October we certainly haven’t seen any evidence that it had any impact on that those sign up rates.
Now what I will tell you is that Weight Watchers Online is a lower priced product.
It’s our lowest price product actually and so being at $18.95 it’s still a pretty great deal.
And so that’s also just worth keeping in the back of your mind.
Then my second question just on the Merck relationship.
How is that going and are you seeing physician referrals result in new enrollments any plans to expand that relationship? And since the Lancet Article was published have you seen any change in the referral rates coming through that channel? I think the here is way I look at the healthcare opportunities specifically with doctors is that you know from our perspective really what makes the healthcare channel pivot for us in kind of reach our key inflection point is when you have that scenario that I was describing in my prepared remarks which is patient sees doctor patient is obese the doctor has a conversation with the patient about referring them to Weight Watchers knowing that they are covered by the health plan and if so in other words when both doctors and payers are both engaged in sort of acting in a way that’s consistent with referring patients to Weight Watchers.
From my perspective that’s when the whole thing really starts to move.
Payers really are there right now.
We think over time they’re going to get there.
We’re seeing indications that there is path to get there that we feel very positive about.
So therefore really with doctors our focus in working with our partners from Merck has been more to understand sort of given the complexities of the operating environment within a doctor’s office in a limited amount of time that they have with patients what's the best way to get a doctor to engage in the conversation how can we get the learnings from that process and how can we try some different approaches in terms of working with different medical practice configurations and other things.
So that as we get the payer part of the equation to tip in our favor we then have a good gameplan with doctors.
So really the partnership with Merck right now has been much more focused on figuring out how this model works from a doctor perspective and our perspective in terms of how it actually drives significant volume through the business.
It happens more I think when the whole system comes together.
Just one last one related to that with this Lancet article and the British Medical Journal article in your back pocket you would seem to have a unique hunting license to actually go out and seek reimbursement from the national healthcare systems of other countries and I am wondering if you could just tell us what investments you are making in that regard are there any milestones we should look for or any and then we should keep in mind as we try to model when to expect you to achieve reimbursement from some of those national health systems.
I think and keep in mind that some of these have been relatively more recent news particularly the clinical studies in the Lancet and the BMJ.
If I were to say where we are prioritizing our efforts our closest in healthcare opportunities are in the UK and the US.
In the UK the NHS already refers patients to Weight Watchers with vouchers.
It’s still a relatively smaller part of our business in the UK but it’s a practice that’s already happening which is an interesting model because it’s really the first major payer that's around the world that's really doing anything with this in terms of working with programs like Weight Watchers.
Now as you probably know the NHS in the UK is kind going for period of transition a move away from primary care trust.
So we’re in a little bit of a period of flux while they settle into the new system that they are gonna be going to.
In the case of the US we view that as probably one of our best near in opportunities just because the impact that obesity is having on healthcare costs is as pronounced as it is.
One would argue that the US should therefore have a greater since of urgency and so I think from that point of view our perspective is that if you look at kind of the universal payers in the US that our first priority is the people who are most motivated which was large self insured plans and that’s the corporate initiatives that we are now talking about but then we’re going to have an opportunity to make her case with private insurance in other words individuals in small businesses state regulated plans et cetera.
State employers federal employers as well as ultimately CMS in Medicaid and Medicare.
You know I think it’s going to be a process to get there.
We’re still in the process frankly working through our strategy in terms of go to market and how we bring all these elements together and we’re probably further there than in terms of thinking for example how do we activate the healthcare system in a country like Belgium or Germany but we are also making progress in that front as well.
So to more directly answer your question with that context and backdrop what I would suggest is as we get into next year I think we will be able to provide maybe a little more specificity in terms of where exactly we think these milestones are most likely to lay down.
Our next question is from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
I guess David when you talk about driving growth in 2012 it seems to be in the context of comping a launch.
Can you just talk about when you see growth growth of what can you just be a little more specific I guess? Without doing the thing that I won't do which is getting into specific forecast on 2012 which is as you know that’s something that we’ve always done with our Q4 report that would presumably be coming sometime around the end of February.
So with that caveat in play what I would say is that it is our expectation and we’re literally in the middle of budgeting as we speak.
So I mean that process is ongoing.
It’s our expectation that as we look at the year 2012 that we will be driving growth from a revenue therefore bottomline perspective.
Okay and I guess and since you mentioned about the budgeting process can you just talk a little bit about how hard or easy it is to budget 2012 I mean how much of this just depends on your ability to hit the right message with the marketing program and with this upgrade right I mean so do you feel good about the predictability of your budgets or you just kind of got to try and stay conservative and just deliver what you say you are going to deliver? That’s a unique and clever way of trying to getting me to get into more details on our 2102 budget so I give huge credit for that.
But what I would say to my fourth comment aside what I would say to answer your question you know our starting point with in terms of looking at 2012 is that for example if we look at what’s happened this year one of the things that’s worked really well for us is we’ve been very successful in getting new people under the door of Weight Watchers particularly in the US and UK both with meetings as well as with WeightWatchers.com.
Those never members those never enrollments were coming for example because we had a new program that we’re coming because we had great marketing we were cutting through we’re very much top of mind.
And so therefore when we look for example at our ability to do the same and even better next year you know we take a lot of obviously comfort knowing that if we do a great job of executing our marketing programs we well be able to deliver good outcomes.
And so you know if we take that if we take the fact that there is some predictability that’s going to come from the fact that half of our retails network will be upgraded next year you know we know we have some predictability and visibility in terms of for example marketing programs that further drive our WeightWatchers.com business.
Lots of other things we are putting in place.
I think we feel like we are sort of armed with enough arrows in the quiver so to speak that we feel like we have enough things going for us that we are going to be able to be significantly in control of our destiny as we go into next year.
That helps I guess and maybe I was trying to go at it the other way whether it is internal or external? It kind of it isn’t I mean if I am just looking at 2012 in terms of this year and you look back over the quarters Q1 Q2 Q3 and Q4 really if there was a quarter that was particularly outsize as you heard my prepared remarks it was the first quarter and beyond that what we have been seeing is that even with the first quarter which had really really good enrollment levels we have been driving enrollment growth throughout Q2 and Q3.
So really if you look at the tricky part of forecast in the business would therefore being trying to get a beat on exactly how Q1 is going to pan out but really in terms of sort of like over the course of the year as we look out over the course of 2012 and look at what we are going to be up against in terms of comps from 2011 it’s mostly a Q1 story and then it normalizes pretty considerably.
And I guess one other thing I mean and tell me if it is just not thinking about it the right way if you going back to ‘99 right when Points originally launched in North America you guys were comping growth on growth on growth with attendance levels adjusted for acquisition that really aren’t materially different from where they are today.
I guess in a market that’s grown pretty considerably.
You know so I guess is it the right way to think about it that you should expect a comp positive in NACO attendance over time.
Maybe not Q1 but over time it just it seems like that unless the dynamics have changed in the industry that considerably I was just curious of your thoughts around that? Well I think what you can infer from my statement that we are going to grow 2012 is it for us to grow the full-year 2012 we will have to do exactly what you just described.
And so from that point of view I mean it’s a little tricky in terms of comparing 1999 versus you know 2012.
You know not the least of which is that there is more unpredictability in the world with the economy and everything else competition is certainly operating at a different level today then they were back when we first launched Points back in 1999.
But I would also argue that we have a team that is executing at just a really fantastic level.
It’s a team that’s got a lot of confidence and a lot of belief from themselves and the things that they are putting in place for much more I would argue aggressive and opportunistic than we were in the past and so I mean it’s sort of comparing this innovation cycle with the one back from Points I mean there is a lot of things that are different but you know frankly from our point of view we believe that as we look into the future in particular as we look at 2012 and frankly for sure as we look in the years beyond I mean we really believe that Weight Watchers is entering into a place where it is our destiny and our obligation to have a much bigger impact on impacting of obesity than we are even today.
Healthcare is going to be a big part of that continuing to drive the consumer business its going to be a big part of that.
And none of those things change and that's kind of the way we look at it.
Our next question is from Gary Albanese of Auriga.
Please go ahead.
Now you have the September online price increase of the dollar what do you think your pricing power is for the monthly meeting pass given the value that that holds? Just to make an obvious point we don't speculate in terms of you know specific pricing actions that we may take in the future.
I would point out the fact that we haven't taken pricing on Weight Watchers monthly pass anyway in the US since we first launched it in 2006.
And so if you ask me do I think that there's ever an opportunity to take a look at pricing for monthly pass therefore given that in the backdrop I would say yes there is but we haven't announced any specific plans around it.
And are you still seeing the same sort of breakdown between like the monthly and the sort of pays your weekly basis? We are a little bit higher on monthly pass as a percentage of paid weeks in Q3 of this year than last year.
Call it 75% for example in North America this year versus I think 72% last year.
You mentioned before about the timing of the promotions or the marketing versus last year and how you kicked in a little bit earlier it won't be that way this year.
Can you sort of I guess talk about what we should expect to see in terms of timing when the new marketing shift starts to roll out will there be new announcements with some of your new initiatives prior to that you know your press release? We have not historically put in our press releases to announce new marketing programs.
Our way of announcing new marketing programs is actually put amount into world and we do that mostly because its the best way to have maximum impact in terms of consumer response.
And therefore our practice has been much more to comment on those marketing initiatives after we’ve had a chance to put them play because really if you ask our marketers their perspective is they want everything they can possibly do to have the biggest impact possible in terms sort of surprising and writing consumers with great new ad campaigns.
And last question with your cash still pretty high level any other consideration to share buybacks going forward? We certainly have availability in our share buyback program.
We have about 200 million there so we have the authorization to do that and of course we’ll continue to pay our dividend pay down our debt as appropriate and other things that could come along like franchise acquisitions are always on our radar screen as well.
So those are generally our uses of cash nothing has really changed.
Our next question is from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
So I want to ask a slightly negative question despite all the success you’ve had this you’re your attendance this quarter was actually 0.5 million lower than it was at the same point in ’08.
Your paid weeks were up 24% but your attendances only 2% on a two year CAGR basis; I understand why this is happening I know we’ve gone over this in prior calls to some extent but I just want to get to one question the core of your business is still if I am correct where it is not marketing.
So isn’t there with some concern internally that unless attendance rises more you may have to boost paid weeks a bit more be advertising or promotion and then may be that cuts into the operating margin or margin potential a bit or is that really just not just the right way to think about it? No I wouldn’t think about it that way.
I mean this is one of the fundamental issues with attendances is they become less similar excuse for way of sort of addressing kind of where the business is either in terms of the number of customers we have and then certainly in terms of the revenue of the business.
Let me give you for example right now there is kind of a spread if you look in the third quarter between paid weeks and attendance growth rates versus last year’s Q3.
One of the reasons for that for example if you look at NACO is that the enrollment patterns for this year were very different than the enrollment patterns for 2010.
What I mean by that is that 2010 we had a very soft first quarter enrollment drive that was followed by increasingly strong enrollment trends as we entered throughout – as we continued through the course of 2010.
This year we have incredibly strong enrollment drive in the first quarter as opposed to the quarters that followed.
The impact of that is you have a whole bunch of customers that came in in the beginning and say January and February a lot of those guys a lot of those customers are reaching kind of their eight months point.
In other word the main expected retention on monthly pass and as you can imagine their likelihood to attend the meeting declined as they get towards the tail-end of their subscription.
What this mean is that if you look at the average 10 year of the monthly pass base in Q3 of this year it is so to speak therefore older than it would be in Q3 of last year which is one of these things that creates kind of this mismatch between paid weeks and attendances.
So if I really look at okay what’s going on in terms of the factors driving this sort of behind the scene it’s one of the reasons why when I am looking at the business I focus primarily in terms of what paid weeks are because that is the most accurate way of getting an assessment of how big the membership base is and the business.
And I feel better about saying that because I know that the enrollment trends that we’ve been seeing that we’ve also been referencing in our comments have been pretty consistently strong incredibly strong in the first quarter but pretty consistently strong all the way through Q2 and Q3 with a couple of sort of two or three week bumps here and there.
So when I look at that it suggests to me that the meeting business that we’re seeing in terms of overall activity levels in 2011 has actually been quite strong certainly compared to ‘10 and ’09.
Now consider the fact that if your comparative 2008; 2008 as you know the recession kind of had full impact going into September of 2008 and consumer confidence dropped to its lowest levels since the great depression or whatever it is or whatever they first started measuring it and the economy sort of statement down pattern really through 2011 but despite that if you look at the paid weeks in sort of how big the membership base is and then you put on top of that how many people have been signing up for Weight Watchers online if you compare 2011 with 2008 we have massively more interest in the brand in 2011 than we did in 2008.
And to me that’s the best way in terms of looking at the overall health of the business overall level of interest in the program and overall level of interest in excitement around the brand.
And then a question on gross margin we’ve seen it go up a 160 bps in the first quarter and 290 in the second year-on-year and then if my numbers are right 460 in the third quarter.
So you are getting great growth there.
It’s difficult though given that kind of growth which is step changes every quarter to forecast that out.
So without talking about 2012 I am just curious how we think about the sustainability of gross margin growth and I guess the color to that is you really gave us helpful insights and I appreciate that and in the EBIT margin a little bit for the dot.com business.
In our modeling should we assume that the percent of sales devoted to marketing and SG&amp;A in that dot.com business; its similar for the rest of the company because that would help us understand kind of where that gross margin growth is coming from how much is from the internet and how much is just from rest of the business and you guys really being more efficient there? Let me answer the first part of your question and then David will take the second part.
If you look at what the drivers are for gross margin growth they are you know it’s purely simple its the fact that the dot.com business has a higher gross margin as becoming – as it’s growing it’s becoming a higher proportion of the total revenue mix.
So you can continue to assume that if that continue to get more accretion on in gross margins.
In the meeting business we are getting it five or 10 for meeting.
So to the degree that those attendances increased for meeting you will get the increase as well.
Of course the meeting business is a little more limited in terms of exactly how high the gross margin can go because eventually a meeting becomes too large and we have to open another meeting and so.
But there is room there but the lion’s share is really rated to dot.com and the mix of dot.com proportionate to other revenues.
Yeah I mean if you look at the economics of the internet business which as you rightly point out they are very different in many respects in what you see with the meetings business.
I mean they are both incredibly attractive in their own way.
They are both high margin they are both very cash flow friendly but if you look at the internet business it is one where you have a relatively more modest fixed cost base which is effectively the software development company that engineers and creators and content folks and everybody else that comprises the amount of money we invest back in consumer facing web application development and these types of things.
That's kind of the fixed costs.
Then you have marketing expense and that's been dropped to the bottom line.
And if you look at the internet business it is give or take a 50% [OI] business right now.
And it is one in which marketing as a percentage of revenue is going to be relatively higher for the WeightWatchers.com business than it is for the traditional meeting business but it’s one in which gross margins are also substantially higher for WeightWatchers.com than it is for the Weight Watchers meeting business.
And it’s a business that way it scales nicely.
What this therefore allows us to do is to be pretty aggressive and looking for opportunities to invest in marketing as long as we are hitting our cost for acquisition bogies which were pretty relentless on making sure that we are doing which allows us to continue to look for ways of opportunistically seeking growth opportunities in the online business by increasing marketing spend.
I hope that answers your questions.
It does but if your marketing spend is actually higher than… As a percentage of revenue.
Then it implies your gross margin is I mean above 80%.
Is that unreasonable? Yes.
That business okay.
Yes is unreasonable or yes is accurate?  Its not unreasonable.
It is not unreasonable.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Greg Badishkanian of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Just a few quick ones hopefully.
Does the guidance include the $0.05 benefit from taxes or do you exclude that in your guidance? It’s included.
It’s included okay helpful.
And then also you lifted several drivers for 2012.
Is there one that you could point out is having potentially the biggest impact? No no I think they all feed on each other pretty directly.
They’re all very much mutually reinforcing.
So I wouldn’t hang my head on any of them.
In fact I take a lot of comfort knowing that we have all of them going into play.
And then just a little bit more color trends I think you said bounced back in September after kind of all the issue that we are going on the macro environment and that momentum has continued to November and then just differentiate it between from a revenue perspective or a meeting attendance perspective what was the kind of a difference there during that period of time? When you say difference during that period of time you are talking about September? Yes the change in trend and I mean just to continuing trend for both of those components? I mean I am not -- I can’t get into -- I don’t want to get into sort of very specific qualitative assessment of enrollment levels and August versus September other than to say that it was -- we’re still -- September was definitely a much better month and what we saw was that there was you know October I think was also been a pretty solid month from a enrollment perspective.
Quite frankly as soon as you hit Halloween in all the advertizing turns off it’s a really quiet period from an enrollment perspective.
I just don’t see that many people signing up for a new weight loss effort and so it’s just not merely as useful in terms of predicting overall trends that are impacting the business.
It’s just kind of too quiet to infer much useful from it.
I could hear about October and just finally it sounds like Continental Europe could be a nice opportunity to capitalize on the new program.
May be what changes in terms of marketing or any kind of color on initiatives that you’re planning for 2012 without being too specific? Yes I mean the two big things in CE that we’ve been focusing on for 2012 as they’re referenced.
You know one is the new program and it’s always helpful to have news particularly when the news reflects what we believe is a very nice improvement of what is already really great program being delivered in a really good way by service providers in that country as well as through the online products we sell in those countries.
And so that by itself is great to have their win in our sales as we go into 2012 in CE and it is also great when I’ve had the benefits as I’ve had to see the work that’s been done so far in terms of the marketing campaigns.
I think they’ve made fantastic progress.
I'm excited about what they’re going to be bringing into the market and it gives me a perfect sense of optimism of for that business as they go into the new year.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Anand Vankawala of Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
Quick follow-up on the CE program innovations.
Will there be a soft launch for the CE program in the fourth quarter or it’s just going to be a full launch in the first quarter of next year? We almost always do a soft launch with program changes.
It would not be of the kind of scope that we pursue when we launched PointsPlus and ProPoints in the U.S.
and UK last year.
But those programs will be kind of live in the wild as we go into the end of November through early December.
At which point as you know Europe really does truly shut down around holiday season in terms of consumer engagement of these types of thing but we will get some good operational experience running with new program for good three or four weeks prior to going quiet over the holidays and then coming back in to January of 2012.
Perfect thanks.
And then just following up on a comment you made during the prepared remarks on the men’s’ issue.
I think you said 15% of the new signups were men’s’ after you launched the marketing initiative.
How does that compare to last year? That would be up typically versus I think last year in as well as a period this year prior to turning on men’s marketing in our spring campaign.
I want to say it was closer to 9%.
Thank you for joining us today and I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
The conference call has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
And we thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Teleconference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards you’ll be invited to participate in the question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today February 14 2012.
At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Sarika Sahni of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International’s fourth quarter and full year 2011 conference call.
With us on the call are David Kirchhoff President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ann Sardini Chief Financial Officer.
At about 5 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with further details regarding the company’s financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company’s progress.
The press release is available on the company’s corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Kirchhoff.
Please go ahead David.
Good morning.
And thank you for joining for us as we review Weight Watchers International’s performance for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2011.
Weight Watchers ended 2011 with a strong fourth quarter and the best financial performance in the company’s history.
The combination of the launch of PointsPlus and hard hitting marketing benefited our North American meetings business throughout the year but particularly in the first quarter of 2011 when we saw explosive growth.
The WeightWatchers.com business surged to new heights throughout the year.
Strong performance in the U.K.
was sufficient to offset softness in our Continental European business.
In the fourth quarter 2011 our business delivered solid year-over-year volume growth and very strong financial performance despite beginning to lap the surge in volume we experienced with the new program launch that began in late November 2010.
WeightWatchers.com remained at all time highs throughout the end of fiscal 2011.
On a constant currency basis Q4 2011 revenues grew 12.5% over the prior year period with meeting fees up 11% in-meeting product sales down 22% and internet revenues growing 60%.
From a volume perspective combined global online meetings and in-meetings paid weeks grew by 34% in the fourth quarter versus the prior year period.
Q4 2011 global paid weeks in our meetings business were up about 13% versus the prior year period while paid weeks for Weight Watchers Online remain very strong at 67% versus the prior year period almost exactly on par with the growth rates we saw in Q3.
Q4 2011 EPS was $0.86 compared with $0.66 for the same period in 2010 a growth rate of 30%.
Included in the Q4 2010 EPS was a $0.02 benefit per share from the reversal of a prior year U.K.
debt accrual.
For the full year the company delivered revenue of $1.8 billion operating income of $546 million and net income of $305 million.
This translated into a 2011 full year EPS of $4.11 versus $2.56 in 2010 a growth rate of 61%.
I will now briefly review our results in our major geographies and business units.
First our North American meeting business to put our fourth quarter metrics in context as I just noted beginning in late November of the fourth quarter we began lapping the launch for the PointsPlus program in 2010.
During that launch we experienced tremendous fear on bugs around the historic program changeover.
This resulted in an unusual surge in enrolments in the last six weeks of fiscal 2010.
Further many Monthly Pass subscribers who otherwise would not have attended it frequently during the seasonally low period showed up in late November and December to learn about the new program.
This resulted in a significant surge of attendances during this typically quite time of year.
Finally as we switched over to the new program in the last six weeks of 2010 we experienced abnormally high levels of end meeting product sales per attendee as our entire install base of members bought the new tools and publications associated with following the new PointsPlus program.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 total NACO revenues were $193 million up 7% versus the same period in 2010.
NACO meeting fees grew by 16% versus the prior year period driven principally by paid weeks volume growth.
In-meeting product sales declined by 22% as we began to comp against the spike in product sales related to our PointsPlus launch in Q4 2010.
As a point of reference product sales in Q4 2010 were up 36% as compared to Q4 2009.
NACO Q4 2011 paid weeks grew 15% versus the prior year period comparable to 26% paid week growth we saw in Q3 of 2011.
NACO attendance sales for Q4 increased 6% versus the prior year period slower than the 14% growth we saw in Q3 of 2011 but ahead of the expectations we communicated in our Q3 conference call.
The two test markets where we rolled out our new upgraded retail centers in 2011 showed enrollment lift of about 15%.
In anticipation of tough comparables in the seasonally all important Q1 we made an all-out effort to open as many new upgraded retail centers as possible prior January 2012 setting an ambitious objective of reaching 50% of our network by end of year.
Unfortunately due significantly to unforeseen delays in achieving permitting due to the complexities of a widely varying municipal rules and ordinances we were able to only open a total of 166 centers half of our objective prior to the beginning of the January winter campaign.
As of this call openings of new locations have reached 239 a 35% of the total fleet of stores.
Importantly we continue to get very positive feedback from our members on retail upgrades but we’re disappointed we could get the full benefit of our planned number of openings in our Q1 enrollments.
Building our B2B capabilities have been a consistent source of effort and investment in NACO throughout 2011.
At this point it would be useful to provide a little more background and context on NACO’s existing corporate business.
In 2011 the corporate or as we sometimes refer to it At Work business accounted for roughly 12% of our meeting attendances in this market.
Historically the vast majority of this business has been a bottom-up grass roots regional business consisting almost entirely of individual locations in which an employee would gather interest from 20 to 25 colleagues at request for Weight Watchers’ leader to run a meeting on site.
This has been a cash check business and the selling process was highly local with some additional support from tele sales representatives.
Beginning in 2011 we started in earnest to sell our programs at the corporate level to the heads of benefits in the chief personnel officers larger employers marking the first time we have sought to achieve top down selling to larger corporations with a professional sales team.
This is what we refer to as our strategic or national accounts business.
Early results from 2011 have been very encouraging with recent examples announced of new accounts including American Express NBC Universal and the New York Stock Exchange.
Employers particularly those who are self-insured are encouraging their employees to seek a healthier lifestyle and in many cases are providing subsidies or reimbursements when they participate in Weight Watchers’ programs.
Key to supporting our efforts to bring in large accounts the NACO team also began the process in late 2011 of converting the meetings product and payment methods which we have historically used in our At Work business.
From a fixed 17-week series paid up front in cash to our corporate version of Monthly Pass for billing is recurring.
Having a corporate version of Monthly Pass is critical to supporting our larger accounts and those who offer a fuller partial subsidy to their employees.
For the large corporate accounts the transition was an important and well-received change.
However when unforeseen consequence of this changed from a 17-week series to Monthly Pass has been series of implementation issues within the grass roots regional small account At Work business which is still the significant majority of the overall At Work business.
Unfortunately these operational issues led to challenges in getting new At Work meetings open in the first quarter of 2012.
As I will discuss later this will result in a significant volume impact in Q1 of 2012 and we are working full stream to fix the problem so that we can return the small account part of this business back to the appropriate volume levels.
Unlike the Monthly Pass transition in our traditional meetings business which we manage seamlessly across various geographies we did not fully appreciate the idiosyncrasies and complexities particular to converting the At Work small account business and as a result did not properly plan and execute the transition.
Importantly while the loss of volume is regrettable especially in our peak season it does not reflect any underlying erosion of demand for our services in this sector but rather a purely execution issue that will be rectified in the coming weeks.
This past December we launched PointsPlus 2012 the version upgrade of the program that enhances personalization in the process by which we help new members get started.
With all the enhancements to the Monthly Pass value proposition over the past five years including technology such as website and mobile applications as well as program innovations.
We made the decision in Q4 increase the price of the Monthly Pass product for the first time since it was launched in Q3 2006 from $39.95 to $42.95 to properly reflect the value of all these improvements.
All existing Monthly Pass customers were grandfathered at the old price while new enrollees began paying the higher price.
Now on to the international meetings business like NACO the U.K.
began to lap the launch from its new program ProPoints in November.
Despite this the U.K.
had a solid fourth quarter from a volume perspective.
Revenues were down 3.3% on a constant currency basis with growth in meeting fees being fully offset by lower-end meeting product sales.
Again the U.K.
was lapping a period of unprecedented product sales for attendance levels during the soft launch of new program in November 2010.
Q4 2011 paid weeks were up a solid 17% versus the prior year period and Q4 attendances were up 13%.
In mid-2011 the U.K.
began the development of an entirely new advertising campaign for the 2012 launch.
As will be discussed in the guidance section later on the campaign while compelling on many dimensions has been disappointing in its ability to get members to enroll in meetings thus far in the first quarter of 2012.
The U.K.
teams is highly turned the issue and is taking steps to evolve and improve the campaign to more effectively inspire new members to joining our meetings in this important market.
Moving on to Continental Europe after a difficult year in 2011 we began to fully see the path to recovery in our CE business as we moved into the fourth quarter.
Overall the CE meetings business revenues contracted 5% on a constant currency basis in Q4 2011 versus the prior year period.
A substantial improvement versus a negative 10% trend we saw in Q3.
Volumes also stabilized with paid weeks declining 5% and attendances declining 4% in Q4 2011 versus prior a substantial improvement versus a negative 15% attendance decline we experienced in Q3.
As noted on previous calls CE team was disappointed the one it’s original launch of ProPoints in early 2010 did not meet its expectations and two the marketing -- then it’s marketing executions were failing to ignite interest with consumers throughout the second half of the 2010 and all of 2011.
Based on the success of an aggressive NACO campaign the CE management team sought to apply the best learnings from that market to the respective launches of the updated program in 2012.
By way of example Germany the largest of the CE markets secured two significant celebrity spokes people to carry its new meetings marketing campaign in a series of TV personalities for its Weight Watchers Online campaigns.
France also secured a popular local celebrity and it launched a unique and aggressive advertising platform.
Similar strides were achieved in small markets throughout Europe.
In addition CE launched ProPoints 2.0 its first version upgrade in two years with strong response from its members.
As will be shared later the early results of these efforts have been strong and the CE business is now back on the growth trajectory.
Moving on to WeightWatchers.com despite camping the soft launches a PointsPlus in North America and ProPoints in the U.K.
in Q4 2010 the WeightWatchers.com business had yet another record quarter.
New signups remain significantly above prior years for the fourth quarter of 2011.
This combined with a higher starting active base resulted in total paid weeks growth of 67%.
This in turn drove revenue growth of 60% versus the prior year period end of period active subscribers were up 50% versus Q4 2010 an impressive achievement given that the end of period active subscribers at the end of Q4 2010 were up 38% over Q4 2009.
As always the WeightWatchers.com team remained busy on pushing new feature launches throughout Q4 2011.
Of note was a barcode scanning app for the iPhone and Android platforms that allowed Monthly Pass on Weight Watchers Online subscribers to use their smartphones to quickly determine the PointsPlus value of any brand and product in the grocery store which allows for easy comparison shopping as well as easier tracking at foods.
In addition the WeightWatchers.com team launched a complete revamp of the subscriber portion of the website which has been very well received by our customers.
Now I’d like to turn the discussion over to Ann who will elaborate further on our Q4 and full year 2011 performance.
Thank you David and good afternoon everyone.
Before reviewing some of the details of our fourth quarter results I’ll provide a recap of our full year 2011 performance.
Full year 2011 revenues were $1.82 billion a 25.3% increase versus 2010 reflecting strong growth in our customer count.
On Monthly Pass and Weight Watchers Online active basis grew 30.5% and 50.5% respectively from the end of 2010 to the end of 2011 to a combined $3 million.
In addition to the benefits from the higher customer base coming into the year the NACO and U.K.
meetings businesses and WeightWatchers.com experienced strong customer recruitment during the year a result of the very positive response to the new program launch coupled with the growing benefit of our effective marketing.
These factors yielded annual growth versus prior of 38.1% in our principal volume metrics paid weeks.
The 38.1% growth in paid weeks for the full year operating income growth versus prior up 40% to $546.3 million on an as reported basis note the 2010 included a $6.5 million charge related to the settlement of the California labor litigation and a benefit of $2 million from the reversal of the prior year U.K.
debt accrual.
Our operating income margin for the full year 2011 was 30% versus 26.8% in 2010.
Interest expense came down 21.5% or $16.4 million in 2011 versus 2010 as we deleveraged to a net debt-to-EBITDA level of 1.72 times.
Net income for the full year 2011 was $304.9 million up 57% and EPS of $4.11 was 60.7% above the $2.56 prior year level and finally the full year 2011 delivered $406.4 million of cash flow from operations significantly exceeding the 2010 level of $313.1 million which excludes a $31.6 million one-time payment made in 2010 for prior period U.K.
debt charges.
Consistent with the rest of 2011 the fourth quarter delivered strong financial results as well with strong growth rates in our key revenue and profit metric and significant increase in operating leverage.
Our fourth quarter revenues were $401.3 million on a consolidated company basis an increase versus prior of 12.5%.
The key drivers for increases in online and meetings paid weeks.
Operating income was $117 million increasing by 21.4% and outpacing the 12.5% rate of revenue growth.
We delivered 210 basis points of operating income margin improvement in the quarter primarily as a result of gross margin expansion.
I’ll provide the details around our operating leverage later in this report.
Net income in the quarter of $62.7 million was up 30.1% versus last year and EPS of $0.86 was up $0.20 from $0.66 from the fourth quarter of last year.
Note that EPS for the fourth quarter of 2010 benefited from the $0.02 reversal of the U.K.
bad accrual.
Now I’ll provide some of the details of our fourth quarter operational results.
The significantly higher customer base at the beginning of 2011 and the strong customer recruitments that we experienced throughout the year positively impacted the fourth quarter which saw 33.9% growth in paid weeks on a consolidated company basis only slightly below the historically high growth level experienced in the first half of the year.
In our meetings business fourth quarter paid weeks grew by 12.6% versus prior to $23.7 million.
In Q4 paid weeks growth continued to benefit from 2011 membership momentum but was partially tempered by its tougher prior year comp.
Globally in the quarter we had 11.4 million attendances an increase of 5.4% versus prior.
In the WeightWatchers.com business paid weeks increased by 67% versus the year ago quarter as a comparable rate in the third quarter.
Signup growth continued to be strong and active subscribers to the online products were 1.6 million at the end of the fourth quarter up from 1.1 million at the prior year end.
Looking now at the impact of this volume growth on our financial performance with all the growth rates cited from this point forward on a constant currency basis and excluding the prior year $2 million revenue benefit of the VAT reversal.
Our consolidated company fourth quarter revenue growth versus prior was 13.1%.
In the meeting business meeting revenues including meeting fees and in-meeting product sales rose 4.2% in the quarter to $265.3 million.
Meeting fees in the quarter grew a robust 12.3% versus last year to $218.4 million with NACO up 16.4% and the U.K.
up 8.1%.
Increases in these markets were partially offset by performance weakness in Continental Europe.
In-meeting product sales decreased to $46.9 million globally down 21.9%.
This is primarily a function of cycling against the soft launch of the new program in the fourth quarter of 2010 which prompted unprecedented purchases in enrollment products by current and returning members.
Accordingly global product sales per attendee decreased 25.9% in the quarter with NACO down 26.1% and the U.K.
down 34.1% In the WeightWatchers.com business the 60.3% revenue increase in the quarter to $100 million was driven chiefly by strong signups in our two largest markets North America and the U.K.
But we also saw signup strength in Continental Europe led by double-digit growth in both France and Germany.
Our other revenues were $36 million in the fourth quarter down $1.6 million or 4.3% versus prior.
Other revenues include franchise commissions and sale of products to our franchisees.
Franchise commissions were up versus prior but product sales were lower consistent with the experience in the company-owned business cycling against the 2010 new program launch.
Licensing revenues decreased by 1.4% in the fourth quarter versus prior.
Increases in U.K.
and Continental European licensing were more than offset by declines in U.S.
driven principally by one licensee.
Our reported gross margin increased by 330 basis points in the quarter up from 52.9% last year to 56.2% this year.
The primary driver of this was a mix shift toward the higher margin WeightWatchers.com business but in addition topline growth in WeightWatchers.com drove gross margin expansion within that largely fixed cost business.
Now to wrap up marketing expenses for the fourth quarter were $60 million up 28.9% versus the fourth quarter of ‘10 with the lion share of the increase resulting from our investments in the men’s campaign and in early support for 2012.
Marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues were 15%in the fourth quarter of ‘11 as compared to 13.1% in the prior year quarter.
SG&amp;A expenses were $48.7 million in the fourth quarter ‘11 an increase of 5.9% versus the fourth quarter of ’10 expenses increased primarily in support of our growth initiatives including technology for the development of our mobile platforms and add to staff and support of B2B healthcare business development.
Despite these investments SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased 80 basis points to 12.1% in the fourth quarter of ‘11 and 12.9% in the fourth quarter of ‘10.
The combination of the growth in the business and operating leverage resulted in an increase in our reported operating income margin of 210 basis points in the fourth quarter to 29.1% up from 27% in the prior year quarter.
Moving on to interest expense which was $30 million in the fourth quarter.
Interest expense declined by $5.9 million or 31% versus prior a result of a lower effective interest rate and lower debt outstanding.
Our effective interest rates decreased by 53 basis points to 4.47% in the fourth quarter ‘11 versus 5% in the prior year quarter.
This is primarily a result of the decline in the notional value of our interest rate swap.
Since the fourth quarter of last year we have reduced our average debt outstanding by $332 million.
As we mentioned for the full year 2011 our cash flow from operations was strong at $459.2 million before interest payments.
After capital expenditures of $49.3 million we had $409.9 million of free cash available to focus our capital structure and to return cash to our shareholders.
During 2011 we paid quarterly dividend totaling $51.6 million.
We made interest payments of $52.8 million.
We reduced our debt by $313.3 million.
Our debt outstanding at the end of 2011 was $1.05 billion and at the end of 2011 our net debt to EBITDA was 1.72 times down from 4.33 times level following the refinancing we undertook to fund our last tender offer in January 2001.
Now I’ll turn it back to David.
Thank you Ann.
2011 was an important year for Weight Watchers on a number of critical dimensions.
A brand has never enjoyed the participation it has seen this past year.
The combined ranks and people attending meetings and participating via the online product represent the highest level of engagement that we had seen in our almost 50-year history.
The brand has commended significant attention interest and buzz throughout the year.
Weight Watchers received due credit for its highly effective weight loss system in several clinical trials as reported by marquee academic journals such as The Lancet and British medical journal.
We have been able to continue to demonstrate that we are unique suited to deliver excellent weight loss outcomes cost effectively and a scale that is unmatched by any competitor.
We are committed to build upon this momentum before we realize our role the leading frontline defense against the obesity epidemic.
As we look to 2012 we will build upon this foundation by pressing forward in our key strategic areas.
Innovation as an organization we succeed when our members succeed.
Given the inherent challenges of losing weight sustainably we see numerous opportunities to help our members by aggressively innovating our offering.
Innovation can come in the form of program changes the most extreme example being a platform change such as PointsPlus.
However innovation can and should also come from areas such as technology and service innovation.
We have an ongoing comprehensive effort to identify and develop significant innovation territories and expect some of these to be implemented for January 2013.
In the recent announcement by U.S.
News naming Weight Watchers the best weight loss and easiest to follow diet is one sign of our innovation success.
Marketing we’re continuing to refine and improve upon our marketing playbook.
We have been seeing strong results in many of our key markets such as NACO and more recently Germany France and Belgium.
We will continue to pursue improvements in these already successful markets while also seeking to raise the bar in countries as marketing strategies maybe not yet be fully connecting.
We would continue to anticipate leverage in the voice of our successful members whether in the form of celebrity and ordinary person or both.
WeightWatchers.com growth in this business will continue to come from technology and product innovation and a combination of expanding audiences and we’re continuing to increase product awareness among these audiences.
Weight Watchers Online which delivers excellent consumer satisfaction at a very competitive price point continues the successful convert record numbers of self-help dieters to the Weight Watchers franchise and we expect Weight Watchers Online paid weeks to equal and surpass meetings paid weeks for the first time in 2012.
Two particular areas of focus for 2012 include men.
In the spring of 2011 we began marketing Weight Watchers online for men in the U.S.
with a follow-up campaign in fall.
During these periods we saw the relative mix of male signups to Weight Watchers online rise from historic rates of 8% to 10% to 15% to 20%.
Based on this success we elected to build upon this strategy.
At the end of December we announced that Charles Barkley would be the first male spokesperson for the brand.
Response to this has been terrific and we have already been seeing men make significant contribution to the ongoing growth we expect to deliver in 2012.
Europe we have not historically marketed Weight Watchers Online in a meaningful way in these geographies and above the line advertising mediums such as television.
Beginning in January we went on air for the first time with dedicated Weight Watchers Online advertising in Germany France the Netherlands and Sweden to help drive awareness and the results have been terrific.
Healthcare and B2B as noted earlier throughout 2011 we’ve been taking steps to position ourselves to capture the opportunity to bring the new customers via the healthcare channel.
To dimensionalize a broader opportunity for our business we currently see about 3% of the overweight or obese adult population in the United States in either our meetings or offline or online offering.
Given the relatively large number of people we see versus other commercial or healthcare-based offerings this suggests to us that the vast majority of people with a weight problem are not getting help.
We view the healthcare channels a critical new way to reach these people over the coming years.
We recognize that pursuing the healthcare channel will take time and an additional set of skills.
To this end we distinguish its opportunity in terms of near-term and medium-term.
Near-term large self-insured corporations as noted earlier we began in earnest to some large corporations that had the benefits and/or CPOs beginning in 2011 where we hired a new VP of Sales.
We further strengthened the team in early January this year when we hired an executive to lead all of our U.S.
healthcare and global innovation efforts.
Colin Watts comes to us from Walgreen where we headed up their innovation efforts with a particular focus on healthcare.
Colin will be focusing much of his time leading the effort to continue building capabilities aptitudes and operational components to allow us to capture this opportunity at scale.
It is critical for us to execute well against this opportunity that we will be somewhat conservative in the rate in which we bring in new accounts until we are fully confident that we can service at faster pace of new account additions.
We have already seen numerous cases where we can achieve penetration rates of 10% or more of employees when we execute well.
So we view this as a critical challenge develop properly to position us for accelerated growth in the latter part of 2012 and more fully in 2011 and beyond.
Medium to longer term large corporations represent roughly 50% of the covered lives in the U.S.
with private insurance state federal government and CMS representing the remainder.
We view these other payer channels as an excellent opportunity for us given our unique combination of effectiveness cost efficiency and scalability.
We will seek to take steps now in the form of pilots and/or partnerships to position ourselves as the healthcare industry increasingly shifts to preventive care through models such as accountable care organizations.
Retail infrastructure while we would have liked to have had more remodeled stores open for the start of January this year we will continue to push forward on new location openings with the goal of achieving 80% of our store transformation by the end of 2012.
Customer data having spent the last five years completing the less glamorous work of implementing the ERP systems throughout WWI that work is largely complete.
This is allowing us to now open bandwidth to focus on customer data and using it in ways to further enable our business.
We already capture real time data in all of our retail centers in North America and of course with our online subscribers.
We are now looking to begin doing the same and are travelling locations in the U.S.
including At Work locations and in France which is serving as a pilot country for our international business.
As we achieve broader customer data capture we can then leverage this and the strategies to improve member retention by better predicting when members are at risk of dropping out and reacting appropriately.
We can also use the data to further enhance our ability to win back cross-sell and up-sell as well as generally improve customer service.
Finally this customer data will further enable our efforts in the healthcare space by ensuring that we can quickly and easily meet the data request of our corporate customers as well as our future healthcare partners.
Guidance in providing guidance for this year our forecast reflect the reality of lapping Q1 2011 a period of extremely high enrollment growth in our North American and U.K.
businesses as well as our WeightWatchers.com business.
As we pass the hump of Q1 2011 we expect to return to a more normal business growth trajectory in Q2 through Q4 of 2012 that better reflects the two underlying strength of our brand and the effort of our strategies.
To this end we are currently forecasting the following volume assumptions across our major lines of business.
One North America volume levels in Q1 2012 will be adversely impacted by copy against the initial PointsPlus launch as well as the impact of the execution issues with our small account At Work business and delays in our new upgraded store openings.
To be clear our NACO enrollments for the first five weeks of this year excluding At Work are running comfortably above 2009 and 2010 levels.
But as expected they are running behind the supercharge levels of Q1 2011.
The shortfalls in enrolments in Q1 will flow through the paid weeks for the remainder of the year but will be largely offset as we stop lapping the Q1 hump from last year and the spring campaign this year.
We are forecasting Q1 2012 paid weeks declined from mid single digits returning to growth by Q3 and into Q4.
Most of this decline is due to the small account network issue.
We’re forecasting attendances of minus 10% in Q1 in 2012 again returning to positive numbers by the third quarter.
Two U.K.
as noted the marketing campaigns in the U.K.
have not met expectations in this market is also facing difficult comparables particularly in Q1 2012.
Given this we’re expecting U.K.
to have a challenging 2012 with paid weeks declines in single digits throughout the year and attendance declines in lower double digits.
CE the CE region is off to a solid start we’re anticipating mid single-digit paid weeks growths in Q1 2012 followed by low-teens growth in Q2 through Q4.
We expected attendances to follow similar trend.
WeightWatchers.com the WeightWatcher.com business has continued moving to new heights with sign up levels exceeding the prior year period despite the triple-digit growth we saw at this time last year.
With the strong subscriber base coming into the year combined with continuing signup growth we’re forecasting paid weeks growth of 30% to 35% throughout 2012.
Overall financial performance given these volumes forecast we’re expecting flat revenue growth in Q1 2012 than rising the high-single to low double-digit growth for the remainder of the year.
One additional factor leading to the flat revenue forecast fro Q1 2012 is the effect of lapping the extremely high product sales for attendance levels associated with the product launches in 1Q last year.
The beneficial impact of our Monthly Pass price increase on revenue will become increasingly evident as we proceed throughout the year given our decision to grandfather existing members.
On the gross margin line we expect continued expansion of 200 to 250 basis points reflecting the proportional mix shift to the higher margin WeightWatcher.com sales.
More of that improvement will come in the second half of the year.
On the marketing line we have a relatively heavier marketing investment in Q1 of 2012 significantly reflecting our investments behind men and raising awareness of WeightWatchers.com in our international markets.
As is our normal practice we recognized all of our marketing expenses incurred with revenue benefits happening throughout 2012 and into 2013.
As a result marketing as a percentage of revenues will be up significantly in Q1 2012 roughly 750 basis points versus prior than dropping significantly to more typical levels in subsequent quarters.
Keep in mind that as we continue to invest behind our WeightWatchers.com business it has the effect of increasing gross margin while also increasing marketing as a percentage of sales given the current CPAs and the relatively low revenue per cycle as compared with the meetings business.
For the full year we expect marketing as a percentage of revenue to be up roughly 200 basis points.
For G&amp;A we expect full year costs to be approximately 50 basis points higher on a percentage of revenue basis than prior year reflecting investments behind our customer data initiative and our healthcare efforts.
For the full year we’re issuing EPS guidance of $4.20 to $4.60 per fully diluted share.
Now before I open it up for questions let me briefly review our plans for our self-tender and a related share repurchase which we have also announced at the close of the market today.
As those of you who follow the company know our business generates large amounts of free cash flow and over the years we’ve used a significant amount of this cash flow to pay down large amounts of debt leaving us at the end of 2011 with a debt-to-EBITDA level of less than 2 times a debt level which we believe is suboptimal for our goal of maximizing value creation for our shareholders.
With debt markets once again open for business and interest rates of historically low levels our Board has approved a plan to recapitalize the company.
This plan will increase the total debt level for the current approximately $1 billion to approximately $2.5 billion or 4.5 times trailing EBITDA and use up to $1.5 billion to fund our tender offered to existing shareholders and our share buyback at the same price per share as paid in the tender from our Artal Holdings our controlling shareholder who would maintain the same percentage ownership post buyback as it holds now.
We expect this tender to take the form of a modified Dutch auction similar to what we did in January 2011 and that we will tender for up to $720 million of our outstanding common shares with a price range between $72 and $83 per share.
The tender offer which will be subject to the successful of the financing and other customary conditions is expected to commence next week.
While not included in our 2012 EPS guidance I just gave based on our current expectations regarding the terms of the related financing and assuming the mid-point of our guidance range and that the tender offer is fully subscribed and successfully closed by the end of Q1 2012 these transactions would be highly accretive and we estimate would add approximately $0.45 to $0.60 per fully diluted share to our 2012 EPS excluding any one time charges.
At this time Operator we would like to take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is from Charles Boorady of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks and good evening.
My first question is if you can just quantify for us the signup growth rates for the online business kind of quarter-to-quarter for 2011? We tend not to release specific signup growth rates.
What we do instead is we report paid weeks growth for the quarters and then typically as we’re going through the quarters we will talk about end of period active subscriber growth.
But again the paid weeks volume growth we are looking for the global online businesses pretty consistently between 30% and 35%.
Okay.
Great.
So the seasonality on that business Dave is that more consistent growth throughout the year than what you see in the meetings business? Well I think part of what’s affecting if you look at the seasonality of that business is it’s not totally different from the meetings business particularly in other way we have Monthly Pass.
The way that business scales up is we tend to see a lot of people as you would imagine signing up in the first quarter and that’s what we’re seeing literally as we speak.
And while that’s happening the subscriber base continues to build and in generally peaks sometime kind of mid Q2 late Q2 then you will see it dip a little bit during summer when not that many people are signing up but people may still be treating then it usually picks up a little bit with increasing signup volumes during our fall campaign and then it usually drops a bit during the sort of traditional holiday period Thanksgiving and Christmas and then the game starts to move as we began the next New Year.
Got it.
My second question is just on the B2B and also the business to government potential and thanks for the added color on your initiatives there.
The sale cycle is usually pretty long in that business from what I have seen on the health plan side and so it’s a bit surprising given that you started in 2011 that you signed up few big trophy accounts and I’m wondering if you can… Yeah.
… give us a size of sort of what your backlog looks like how many employers you’re talking to right now what the interest level is that we can gauge the trajectory of growth in that B2B business? I think once our sales engines starts getting up to kind of more of a predictable and regular pace as we kind of workout some of the operational things in the business we’ll be in a better position to start giving kind of I think more clear indications of what backlog looks like.
That said one point I’d like to make as a distinction is that the large accounts business that I was referring to in other words large corporations they are relatively feel of our large accounts and I only mentioned three because those are the three that have given us permission to use their names as we have discussions like this one we obviously have others.
That a lot of times were not actually part of the health plan this is Weight Watchers is provided to employees as a separate benefits and so it can be provided off cycle a little bit and so usually if there is a sales cycle issue it would be equally if not more like to come up with respect to budget considerations and where the HR department budget might be in any given point in time there are number of other different conditions.
And so it’s not explicitly defined to a sort of hard set health plan benefits calendar.
I think as we continue evaluating ways to partner and work with insurance companies you can imagine circumstances in which that might come in to play and should we has success in the coming years of presenting our offering successfully for inclusion and programs like Medicaid Medicare via CMS that would obviously have its own sort of cycles and timings but that’s kind of for the future so right now we’re not heavily dependent on those types of cycles you might imagine.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jerry Herman of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus</strong> Hi guys.
Good evening Ann.
Hi Jerry.
Nicolaus</strong> I guess the first question I just wanted if you would be willing to share the year end membership on Monthly Pass and just the notion of the price increase and just to verify that if a individual disengages that when they come back that that happens at the higher price and what sort of motivation was that to keep them engaged at the time of the December price increase? I can give you the Monthly Pass end of period the end of year we had about 1.4 million Monthly Pass subscribers globally if they were to come back -- if they were to… Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
Go ahead.
If they were to come to cancel the membership and then come back the likelihood would be that we would charge the higher amount unless there was some circumstance that as far as not doing that but typically would do that I mean if you… Yeah.
I mean Jerry if I understand your question correctly and I may not we did not try to time the price increase as a way of sort of artificially keeping people retain longer at the end of the year by giving them an encouragement.
I think that the distinction between sort of the price $39.95 and then they come back and have to pay $42.95 I just -- I doubt that that’s significant enough to have a significant impact on the decision making of any existing customers.
So I suspect -- so I don’t suspect there was much of that going on.
Frankly the decision around just had as much to do with the number of other operational considerations and the fact that we had felt like with all of the enhancements and improvements we’ve been making including some of the ones we watch in the fourth quarter that it was appropriate for us to take that action.
Nicolaus</strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then just a follow-up can you talk conceptually about the rationale behind the Dutch auction vis-à-vis the issuance of the dividend growth opportunities just sort of general uses of cash and maybe you can share some of the high level highlights of the Board discussion there? Well it goes without saying that the vast majority of the Board discussion would be quite confidential as you can imagine.
But I guess just to your question.
I think the way that we look at the share repurchase is that it’s tax efficient for us.
It really does from our perspective allow us to have a much more efficient capital structure.
It improves frankly our tax efficiency as a company we pay relatively high taxes compared to most corporations.
And with the cash flow we generate and everything else this was a very easy way for us to execute something like this that we thought would be beneficial both for the company and for shareholders.
(Inaudible) And it also make an obvious point it’s also highly accretive.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
Hey just on the guidance range first of all I understand that percentage range or the width of that range is similar to what you guys did last year.
But I would imagine that the moving parts may not be a significant this year without an enormous launch that you had last year.
Can you talk a little bit about the rationale with that range as wide as it is in the $0.40 area and I guess what drives the low-end of that range versus what drives the high-end of that range? Yeah I mean if there is -- I don’t know that there is a tremendous science behind the range part of it is just historically to your point 10% has generally been kind of the range that we provide at the beginning of the year.
I always point out the fact that we definitely know a lot more after five weeks than we knew before the year started but we continue to sort of improve our understanding of trends that are happening with the business understanding kind of where the economy is going how that affects the consumer etcetera etcetera.
And so from that point of view we like to start here and then obviously as we get into reporting on Q1 what we typically do is we narrow the range and so on and so forth so kind of our usual practice.
In terms of what would necessarily drive to the upper lower end of the range.
As you know Chris our business outcome in terms of EPS is generally going to be driven more by topline considerations than by anything else.
Our costs are fairly predictable and we usually have good contingency plans and everything else worked in.
So really it is more a function of wanting to get better visibility and to how the volume trends are going.
We have a pretty good sense of what the winter campaign is going to look like.
By the time we will report our Q1 numbers we’ll also – we’ll have the full winter campaign behind us but we will also have a good indication of the spring campaign which by the way we’re feeling quite good about.
That helps.
And I guess speaking of that topline guidance I guess unless I missed it it sounded like you basically said that attendance or revenues would be flat in the first quarter and then get to kind of high single to low doubles for Q2 through Q4.
And if that’s right and we are talking about at the mid-point something I guess 7.5% range 7% to 8%.
I guess it looks like the dot com expectation or assuming that revenue growth in online mirrors or mimics in some way paid weeks guidance.
But it kind of looks like dot com is going to drive a lot of revenue growth based on that initial guidance assumption on the topline.
So A is that right and I guess is that to your point it’s early on and that’s the way you are looking at things.
Just want to make sure that rationale is the way you are looking at it as well? Yeah.
I mean the dot com business is obviously going to be driving a lot of our value as we go throughout the course of the year in terms of revenue.
As I said before if you follow the guidance we provided on meeting volumes we are looking in the first two quarters as negative comps in terms of overall attendances and paid weeks but that goes into positive territory as we get into Q3 and Q4.
So really that’s just a function of the significance of A the impact of the Q1 comp on the meetings business and B some of the executional issues that I mentioned for example on the small account network business.
Whereas dot com has despite the fact it’s comping the sort of crazy triple-digit growth rates that we experienced last year still or signup volumes so far this quarter are still in excess of where we were prior year benefiting significantly by men as well as growth in our international dot com businesses.
And we expect to continue benefiting from that growth a little bit more consistently over the year.
So that’s why the dot com pattern looks a little bit more uniform where the meeting business is more digging out a little bit from Q1 and then sort of getting progressively stronger as the year goes on.
If you look at in the quarterly fluctuations to make sense I guess what I’m asking is on a full year basis it kind of sounds like you guys are implying with your guidance that the meeting business won’t generate any revenue growth? And maybe currency is a factor in that but is that a misinterpretation because just based on the numbers you gave it sounds like that’s what it is and it’s very possible I got that wrong you get a lot of information early on I just wanted to see if I got that wrong or right? Yeah.
I think given the impact to Q1 that’s an accurate statement to make in terms of overall revenue growth over the course of the year.
I guess my point is as I look at the business and its underlying strength the fact that the meeting business will be sort of back-end solid revenue growth as we get into the second half.
It’s a mere reflection of sort of where the meeting business really is from a structural point of view and the fact that dot com will be delivering strong growth throughout the year is obviously good news.
Yeah.
That’s perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Greg Badishkanian of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
Yeah.
So just kind of going along those lines the year is very heavily backend loaded.
So how much of it’s due to tougher compares versus some of the other drivers that you’re going to expect to come in full force in the back half of the year? It’s really it’s the tougher compare of Q1 significantly because again it’s sort of that’s our heaviest environment period and the impact of having fewer enrollments you feel it over the course of the year although the degree to which you feel it decreases as the year goes on because as you imagine there’s enrollments that you might have liked to have had would have been a trading throughout the course of the year.
So therefore their impact declines as you get into lighter quarters.
That plus the fact that couple of the issues we had for example not having as many of the stores open as we would have liked not obviously for the lack of effort but not having as many as we would have liked as well as the issue with the regional network business.
The timing of those two things not being there for us in Q1 kind of made it doubly difficult and so it was a combination of a comp but very significantly those two other factors particularly if you look at the NACO business that had the impact or it did that they requires us to then sort of back out.
The good news is is that because for example the regional At Work business was executional it also means it is by definition very fixable which gives us a lot of confidence of returning it back to the right kind of trends as we go into Q2 and beyond and then obviously the comparable goes away as we would expect it to in terms of Q1.
Okay.
Okay.
And then I know you guys gave out some good revenue guidance for the first quarter and you typically I know you don’t give out quarterly U.S.
guidance but I’m just thinking because it is pretty uneven.
It’s getting pretty volatile throughout the year and low in the first quarter and kind of backend loaded.
So is there any way we should think about margins in the first quarter and EPS around I think $1.13 just so we can model that right? Yeah.
My advise on modeling is to listen very closely as you read back to the transcript to what we talked about in terms of the impact for example the fact that the gross margin would be picking up a little bit more as we get into the latter half of the year.
But really the big story with Q1 is marketing.
And again just to sort of reemphasize the point if you look at the lot of the incremental marketing spend which you can now back into given the 750 basis points I shared 70% of that is coming on investment behind the dot com product.
Of that investment a significant amount of that incremental spend is coming against men which is a market segment for which we are still building awareness so the CPAs are relatively higher as well as doing television and advertising for example in Continental Europe Canada a couple of other places again where awareness of Weight Watchers online might be relatively lower so therefore the CPAs are relatively higher.
My point is is that you kind of have this kind of double effect of relatively higher CPAs on a lot of those incremental marketing dollars then being applied against the Weight Watchers online product and the revenue that you get for example in Q1 for a Weight Watchers online signup.
I mean think of it this way.
You are looking at average monthly price of like $18.
So really the revenue benefit that you get from a signup if you get them in the mid-point of the quarter is going to be effectively $28 something like that you could have CPAs sort of far in excess of that.
So what that does is basically then turns -- they’re kind of it turns into a negative contribution if you will in the first quarter but then as you pass that initial marketing investment you continue getting revenue benefit over the course of the year which is why the sort of upside down between revenue and marketing then goes away as you’re going to Q2 3 and 4 so what it is is just the shape of this given the intensity of the marketing spend behind Weight Watchers Online it’s really just causing the nature of our quarterly financials to work very different than what you might be used to seeing in prior years.
So again my advice from an online perspective is to sort of pay close attention to the relative impact of this marketing being applied against dot com given that for the first quarter and frankly for the full year about 70% of our incremental marketing investment is going against Weight Watchers Online globally.
Great.
Helpful.
And just finally you had made price increases what do you think the elasticity is there and next year do you think you have the opportunity to raise prices again on probably not? I think over time the elasticity we would expect from a price increase and based on what we have seen in the past for example with Weight Watchers Online we have not seen long-term negative impacts in terms of raising price on Weight Watchers Online.
Now it’s important to note that the Weight Watchers Online is a fairly inexpensive product which I think is one of the reasons that we’re seeing in our portfolio that which is one of the reasons why it has been so successful in gaining traction and its self-help market if you will.
In terms of the price increase of Monthly Pass I would expect if there has been any volume impact and I can’t rule out that it might have had some volume impacts in the first quarter but if there has been any volume impact that will probably quickly go away based on our past experience and price increases with pay as you go.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Gary Albanese of Auriga.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good evening everybody.
Hi Gary.
Hey just a follow-up on the last question.
You mentioned the marketing is going to be different from what we’ve seen in the past.
But does that indicate is this the kind of expenses we’re going to continue to see seasonally in the future like the first quarter of 2012 2013 et cetera? I’m not sure and I’ll tell you why.
For example in spring of this year we will be advertising Weight Watchers Online from that again but we did that last year as well.
In 2011 we did not have a men’s campaign during winter which we do this year.
So that’s truly incremental spend.
In the case of the television advertising we’re doing in for example kind of in Europe and Canada and some of those places we did not have that spend last year we do this year.
What it means is that we have caught up and this just a little bit of strategy on some of our Weight Watcher Online as we’ve been able to continue to very profitably increase penetration of Weight Watcher Online although we still think it’s underpenetrated versus where it’s ultimate potential is but we’ve been able to profitably increase penetration by increasing the number of weeks we’re on air by expanding audiences and by selectively heavy up in terms of media weights and things like that.
So I would expect that as we go forward we will be looking for -- in future years we’ll be looking for new opportunities to find new ways of getting people into the fold i.e.
move ways to invest marketing investment that we would expect would have a profitable CPA.
However I would say that what you’re seeing this year in Q1 given those things for example men in Europe for the first time being on-air with two pretty sizeable investments that resulted in much more of a step up than what I would guess you would typically see.
And so I think that as -- no promises and I don’t want to get into forecasting 2013 but I can envision right this red hot second the kind of structural shifts in terms of new avenues of marketing Weight Watchers Online to the extent that we’ve had this year in 2012.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
I appreciate that.
Second what’s the Monthly Pass for the grandfathered customers do you have a percentage of those customers that are being grandfathered or rough estimate of how large that segment is? Yeah.
I mean think of it this way.
As you heard Ann referenced the Monthly Pass subscriber base now that was global but the Monthly Pass subscriber base at the end of this year was 1.4 million.
So you can estimate how much of that was North American.
Virtually all of those folks with probably 95% would be my guess at the end of this year were grandfathered.
So that’s like as of the beginning of January st1.
But then now that you have new enrollments coming in you’d gradually see that shift over which is why the benefit of the price increase and I think it was where you’re going that’s why the benefit of the price increase from Monthly Pass you really don’t get anything from it in Q1 which is by the way it’s another reason why Q1 revenues aren’t going up more.
You begin to get more revenue as you get into Q2 3 and 4 because of greater percentage of your North America Monthly Pass mix is on the new price versus the old price.
And the second half falls with the basically the eight month retention you start to see more… Yeah.
And the other thing I’ll say about the eight month retention is that’s mean retention.
We do have a relatively long-tail.
In order words we tend to have -- the attrition tends to go down as we get into someone’s average duration.
So it’s not a precise at eight months everybody flips over but it’s not a bad way of thinking about it.
Okay.
And one last quick question with the estimates -- does that include the expected higher interest from the incremental debt? No.
It does not.
The $4.20 to $4.60 is exclusive of the tender offer and the financing associated with the tender offer.
Okay.
Thank you.
So the accretion does include it.
Yeah.
The accretion that we provided at the end of my remarks is obviously net of financing cost.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Anand Vankawala of Avondale Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good evening.
I just wanted to ask a quick question regarding the store conversions.
How do we get from 35% to 80% at the end of this year? Can you give us a little bit of an idea of the progression through the quarters? I think we would probably look to maybe get into a little bit more detail once we get into Q1 I mean I think one of the things that we’re just working through is just sorting out kind of what we have right now given that January is typically a crazy time in our meeting rooms.
But I think as we get into maybe first quarter release we’ll be able to give a little bit more specificity at the manner in which they are going to progress out.
That being said I think that our expectation would be that we would make steady progress over the course of the year.
So you can sort of use that as a kind of rough or some before I get a chance to give you kind of more precise estimates.
Okay.
And then just look like I’m trying to understand with the online business and the active subscribers I mean it dropped off quite a bit in Q4 relative to the paid weeks and the online business.
I’m having a little bit of trouble just reconciling the difference between those two metrics? Well to be clear paid weeks for Weight Watchers Online in Q4 were up 67% but if you look at the end of period action subscribers and kind of where we ended the year.
So end of period action subscribers were up 50% versus prior year.
That’s comping against 38% growth over what we saw Q4 2010 versus Q4 2009.
Here is what’s going on.
If you look at the end of 2010 those last four or five weeks Weight Watchers online in the U.S.
in 2010 was beginning to benefit from the buzz around PointsPlus as well as of the television campaign in that final week of the year.
So that resulted in us having kind of a surge in the actual subscriber base.
So if you kind of look compared to that 50% versus 38% and you compare what that provision looks like end of period action subscribers and one it implies about was using say 2010 as a proxy it actually is quite strong from our perspective and so view Q4 for Weight Watchers Online is in absolutely excellent quarter.
Okay.
And then I guess last just also on the online business do you have any thoughts on emerging competition in the online space we’ve seen few online startups that have been popping up that have been just going up in popularity.
So just initiative that you have in place just to combat that? Yeah I mean of course we’ve been saying online startup pop up actually for the past 10 years so this is a new per say.
The first point I would make in terms of structural advantages we have in this proposition is that first off we have the only online offering is apparently we’re paying for because the other apps I guess the people who wrote and don’t have sufficient confidence and then they think that they worth very much money.
But putting that aside what I would suggest is that the average person who buys Weight Watchers online is not buying an online calorie counter they’re not buying any particular at per se they’re buying a proven program with the brand that they trust that they notably -- that they know will work.
The fact that it supported by apps is what makes for compelling value proposition.
So it’s not the application itself.
And a lot of these online apps that we’re now starting to see for example there is one type like smart people has now been around for a bunch of years it really hasn’t had any impact that we can discern on our business apps that are now popping up on the iTunes store that are out there but again we can’t say any discernible impact on our business and I think it’s because of the value proposition between them it’s pretty different.
The other point that I would make though is that while we have a lot of confidence and again inherent strength and competitive advantage of our brand or program in the fact that we have something that people intrinsically want we also don’t resting our (inaudible) so literally we come the same universe looking for any good new technology any new good idea that we can find no matter who does it whether it has a million downloads or 100 downloads we look it all of it and we take the best ideas we can get we aggressively seek to roll it out.
The good example of that for example was rolling out the barcode scanner which sounds like a really simple little application but if the barcode scanner in the context for following Weight Watchers is actually have turned out quite powerful the barcode scanner in isolation just to show you a calories would be a little bit more beyond.
And so from our point of view what we want to do is sort of take the best of the ideas that are out there but then ramp them into this broader value proposition of this highly compelling behavior modification program known as Weight Watchers.
And I guess just one quick follow-up to that.
How many -- what percent of your users are using the mobile applications? I don’t have that number off the top of my head but it’s getting pretty high and the reason I don’t have it off the top of my head is that we have indications on what percent own a smartphone.
But it’s a little bit trickier for us to say who is actively using the app versus the website at any given point in time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thanks for taking the follow-up guys.
Yeah.
Dave can you just give a little bit of a view I guess what the signup growth in the meeting business might have been in Q4 and I guess how that would look into Q1? And then just give a little color on why that would change what if the install base this year versus last year trend similarly because of the big Q1? Why would you have an opportunity to kind of change that trend as you get to the spring diet season I guess it would be the different dynamic there.
But the more important part is can you talk a little bit about what the signup growth was in Q4 and what it trended like in the meeting business and make I guess in first quarter so far? Yeah.
Sure.
I’ll be happy too.
We were experiencing enrollment growth up to the point of the soft launch of PointsPlus and we’re sort of copying that.
What happened at the soft launch which is right after Thanksgiving in 2010 was this sort of somewhat bizarre experience it’s almost like getting snow in Bermuda in which we saw a huge number of people enrolling relatively speaking enrolling in the meeting business in November late November of 2010 through December.
So obviously while that was happening we would never expect to see that before or after it was just the uniqueness of all the buzz around PointsPlus and the PR and everything else from this big moment of change obviously therefore during late November and December enrollments were running behind from where they were in prior but we expected that and we’ve been guiding to that and giving indications of that both before and after the fact so that wasn’t any particular surprise.
And then if you look at the enrollment growth that we continue to see in Q1 of 2011 versus prior there were some pretty impressive very significantly into sort of high double-digit numbers for a number of weeks versus 2010 which admittedly was relatively weaker quarter but they were also sort of substantially above 2009 by kind of leaps and bounds.
What we saw last year if you go back and look for some of the old scripts was that relative enrollment growth began to moderate as we got into Q2 Q3 and to sort of more levels that we would associate with kind of just generally good and strong vibrant brand.
And so if we reflect upon that pattern of enrollments that we saw in 2011 and we look at where we are right now and the things we have coming up it’s what we used to form the basis of our forecast of the volume trends beginning to moderate from an enrollment perspective as we got into Q2 Q3 going into Q4.
And I guess in Q2 ‘12 I mean do you have any -- can you talk about what the enrollment trends have looked like so far if you didn’t say that already? Yeah.
I mentioned a little bit in the script and I’d be happy to repeat it a little bit to emphasize the point.
Again if you look at sort of what you would normally expect from a seasonal pattern and then you look at 2011.
The degree of signups or enrollments coming in Q1 2011 was anomalous compared to a normal seasonal pattern if you index Q1 versus Q2 Q3 and Q4 and what we had seen virtually in any prior year and that’s the effect of a PointPlus launch.
If you look at kind of the enrollment levels we’re seeing right now.
When I’m looking at weekly enrollments coming in I’m comparing it both to where we were in 2011 in which case we are behind as I have referenced but I’m also comparing enrolment levels to where we were in both 2010 and 2009.
2009 by the way being an innovation year when we rolled out momentum in both of those years 2012 enrolment levels are running comfortably ahead of both 2010 and 2009 which I use as another good sort of touch point to demonstrate to me that I think where we are seeing overall enrolment levels in NACO therefore it feels appropriate for where we should be particularly in the non-At Work part of our business.
Got it.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us today and I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
The conference call has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International First Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards you’ll be invited to participate in the question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today May 2 2012 At this time I’d like to turn the call over to Lori Scherwin of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International’s first quarter 2012 conference call.
With us on the call is David Kirchhoff President and Chief Executive Officer.
At about 4 O’clock p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with further details regarding the company’s financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company’s progress.
The press release is available on the company’s corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
As you all know the company is in the process of conducting a search for a new CFO which we will update you on at the appropriate time.
Consequently for this call Steve’s remark will also come at the financial section of the company’s result.
I would now like to turn this call over to David.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
And thank you for joining for us as we review Weight Watchers International’s performance for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
As you may recall Q1 2011 was an outstanding quarter with paid weeks growth of 72% in our online business and 23% in our meetings business.
In Q1 this year I’m gratified that consumer engagement with the Weight Watchers brand continued to increase with global combined paid weeks up 12% over last years historically high watermark.
Despite 72% growth in online paid weeks last year we were able to grow paid weeks by another 35% in Q1 2012 by investing and marketing behind the online business specifically against growth opportunities with men in the international markets.
On the meetings business we believe the key driver of long-term growth will be to embed Weight Watchers more directly in the healthcare system.
The potential of this opportunity is clearly demonstrated by the fact that Weight Watchers penetration is an order magnitude higher where meetings are partially or fully subsidized as oppose to being fully paid by the consumer.
We’re already seeing the clear benefits of this approach among some of our large corporate accounts that provide subsidies.
As part of our healthcare focused efforts we rolled out Monthly Pass to our corporate accounts in North America in Q1 2012.
Unfortunately this roll out created execution issues with our North American small account corporate business which negatively impacted our results.
These execution issues combined with a disappointing advertising campaign in the UK resulted in 5% decline in paid weeks for our global meeting business in Q1 202 versus the prior year period.
Let me get into some more specifics on our Q1 2012 performance.
On a constant currency basis Q1 2012 revenues were flat at plus 0.5% over the prior year period with meeting (inaudible) down 6% and meeting product sales down 13% and Internet revenues growing 39%.
For Q1 our profit was lower on flat revenue due to increased marketing.
Marketing expense in the first quarter was up 36% versus prior supported growth initiatives mainly the first men’s winter TV campaign for Weight Watchers online in the U.S.
and the first TV campaigns of any kind for Weight Watchers online in Continental Europe.
I will discuss our marketing investment more fully later in my remarks.
Q1 2012 EPS was $0.74 compared to $1 for the same period in 2011.
I will now briefly review our results in our major geographies and business units.
First our North American meetings business.
Total NACO revenue which includes the U.S.
and Canada in Q1 2012 was down 9% on a constant currency basis versus the same period in 2011 with NACO meeting fees declining by 7% and meeting product sales declined by 14% versus the prior year quarter driven primarily by volume declines with product sales for attendance also down 2.5% due to lower enrollment product sale this year versus last a function of lapping the PointsPlus’ innovation launch last year.
NACO Q1 2012 paid weeks declined 6% while attendance have declined 12% versus the prior year period driven most significantly by execution issues and the small account portion of our corporate business which I will explain in detail shortly.
Excluding the corporate business NACO paid weeks attendances in the first quarter were down an estimated 3% and 8% respectively.
After enrollment growth of better than 70% in Q1 of the previous year and in light of the first price increase ever and our Monthly Pass offering we knew it would be a challenge to match that quarter’s strong volume results.
As we referenced on our Q4 call our challenge was made more difficult by a significant execution issue on the small account portion of our corporate business.
As we noted we undertook an effort to transition our corporate business from fixed duration series i.e.; 12 and 17-week to a corporate version of Monthly Pass.
This effort was undertaken principally to meet the requirements of newer large corporate accounts that prefer the Monthly Pass billing model and value proposition.
We had a smooth transition process with our large national accounts.
However we ran into numerous problems in transitioning the small account portion of our corporate business which still account for the vast majority of this line of business.
The root of the issue was an effort to replace direct personal contact to organize and secure meetings and commitments from employees with an automated process utilizing a dedicated web page signup process.
As a result many of our meetings were not able to meet the minimum threshold of members to establish the new meeting a new meeting starts with (inaudible) down dramatically during the critical first three weeks of the year.
By the time we had identified the issue and diagnosed the problem it was too late for us to make a positive difference in that part of the business during this critical time of year.
Under normal circumstance we would have expected to have attendance in this part of the business to be at least flat versus prior given underlying employer interest.
However as a result of this execution issue attendances in the small account corporate business were down 30%.
With the issue now identified and diagnosed the team has begun to implement a series of steps to remediate the problem and begin recovery in the meetings base for the (inaudible) business.
We’ve taken the opportunity to undertake a full review on analysis of our sales processes and we will end up with a much stronger capability with small corporate accounts as a result.
However missing the opportunity to set up meetings during the high conversion period of January through March will take time to overcome.
While we’ve steadily closing the gap over the past weeks we are estimating that we will not be able to return to prior levels of meetings until this summer.
The small account corporate business were all the mid way emerged from this stronger but for 2012 we estimate that our execution issues have caused us $0.07 of EPS in Q1 and will cost us roughly $0.15 of EPS for the full-year.
In the meantime our large corporate account business continues to proceed nicely with a number of new accounts coming on stream recent examples include accounts such as AstraZeneca the City of Austin and Penn State University a nice reflection of the diversity of interest in this program.
The effective lower enrollments in the first quarter will continue to affect our result as we move into the second quarter which is starting with a lower base of members than was the case this time last year.
It’s too early to get an anchor read on our spring campaign due to the Easter holiday timing and some changes in commercial strategy.
For the second quarter we’re forecasting and (inaudible) attendance declines in the high single to low double digits and paid weeks declines in the low to mid single digits.
We continue to work to our bringing attendance who is back to break even or slightly positive in the second half with a modest growth in paid weeks during this period.
On the revenue line we ill be increasingly benefiting from our price increase as a growing percentage of the membership base will be on the new higher price.
We expect modest single-digit declines in naked revenue in Q2 moving to single-digit positive growth rates in the second half.
Now on to the international meetings business; as noted on the prior call the UK was also facing difficult comparables as it lapped its ProPoints for (inaudible) from last year.
Q1 2012 total meetings business revenues declined 9% on a constant currency basis with meeting fees down 6% and in-meeting product sales down 14% versus the prior year period.
The decline in product sales was driven almost entirely by lower attendance as this product sales per attendance was effectively with prior.
The attendance was declined 14% and paid weeks were down 6%.
This compares to the 22% growth we had in 2011 versus 2010 in both attendances was in paid weeks.
As we noted on our last call we have been disappointed by the results of the current advertising campaign n the UK.
The UK team attempt and take a new approach of its advertising.
In summaries it was compelling a modernizing for the brand or approved to be ineffective in converting consumer interest into enrollments for both meetings and online.
The combination of facing last year’s impressive comparable in the less effective advertising resulted in a significant shortfall enrollment levels throughout the first quarter.
As we move forward the UK is seeking to be more consistent with some of the marketing strategies that have been successfully deployed in the U.S.
It will take time to develop and deploy the new marketing strategies fully so we expect the UK to continue to underperform throughout the rest of the year with some modest moderation as the year progresses.
For the second quarter we expect paid weeks declines in the high single-digits and attendance declines in the mid-teens.
Moving on to Continental Europe results in our Continental European businesses were solid benefiting from the implementation of a new marketing strategy.
Meeting enrollment growth rates in countries such as Germany Belgium and Netherlands were all in the doubt-digits.
It was gratifying to see a stable shift in consumer interest and response to our new marketing campaigns in this region.
However the softness of the business throughout 2011 that we started 2012 with the smaller membership pace then was the case in the previous year.
As such our Q1 results underplay the enrollment strength we saw throughout CE in the first quarter.
Overall total CE meetings business revenues grew 2% on a constant currency basis in Q1 versus the prior year period with meeting fees of 3% in meeting product sales down 3%.
Paid weeks for the first quarter 2011 grew 5% compared to prior (inaudible) attendances grew 4%.
For the second quarter we expect paid weeks growth in the high single-digits and attendance growth in the mid-single digits.
We expect this trend to continue throughout the second half of the year as well.
Moving on to WeightWatchers.com WeightWatchers.com enjoyed another strong quarter in Q1.
As we began the year we were comping against a period in 2011 where we experienced triple digit growth in signups and paid weeks growth of 72% versus Q1 2010.
Despite this dawning prior year period comparisons we were able to grow signups at a growth rate of nearly 20%.
This combined with the benefit of starting the year with a higher active subscriber base allowed us to drive paid weeks growth of 35% versus Q1 of last year.
This volume growth translated into Internet revenue growth of 39% in constant currency versus the same period last year.
Globally end of period active subscribers were up 32% to $2.4 million cycling against 87% year-over-year growth in end of period actives in the first quarter of last year.
Two strategies played a critical role and helping us continue to drive growth from Weight Watchers Online.
First men with a strong results we experienced in the spring and fall marketing campaigns we continue with our strategy of raising awareness of Weight Watchers to men in this year’s winter campaign.
In this case we added to our marketing efforts by including our first major male spokesperson Charles Barkley.
For the full quarter men accounted for approximately 15% of our U.S.
signups despite being on there only six weeks with men’s TV spots.
As a result we were able to drive double-digit signup growth in the U.S.
market despite comping against triple digit growth during the previous year and not having the benefit of new program news.
Cost per acquisition for this incremental marketing spend was within our plan target and in an additional bit of good news early indications are the retention for Weight Watchers Online for men is even higher than that for women.
Second Continental Europe; prior to this January we had not undertaken significant efforts to drive awareness of our online products in CE was above the line advertising.
This year we will launch TV campaigns in Germany France the Netherlands and Sweden.
Growth in all four markets serves beyond our plan expectations.
Suffice to say we’ve been extremely pleased that in these markets we have shown that we have again shown the dedicated television marketing for online is a winning strategy.
As we enter into the second quarter our U.S.
Weight Watchers Online business has begun lapping the initiation of our men advertising campaign of last year.
Despite this we expect to generate positive sign-up growth in the U.S.
continuing in the second quarter.
We continue to see very strong growth rates in Continental Europe.
This combined with starting Q2 with 32% higher active subscriber base will result and paid weeks growth of roughly 30% for the quarter.
While we expect sign-up trends in second half to moderate somewhat we anticipate strong double-digit growth in volume and revenue throughout the second half.
I will now review some additional financial results for the quarter.
Our other revenue declined 11% to $37 million in the quarter.
Within this franchise commissions declined to 11% versus the prior year period based on trend similar to NACOs.
Product sales to franchises were also soft versus strong selling in enrollment products in Q1 2011.
Licensing decreased slightly to 0.5% with softness in the U.S.
and CE largely offset by strengthens in the UK.
Gross margin rose 100 basis points to 57.3% in the quarter driven by mix towards our higher margin WeightWatchers.com business as well as an overall increase in the dot-com business itself.
Partially over set by a decline in meetings business gross margin.
The meetings business gross margin was negatively impact by lower average attendances per meeting and by expenses associated with some of our new healthcare initiatives and some one-time expenses associated with our retail transformation.
Pricing as measured by lecture income per paid week was down modestly in the quarter.
Although we are getting a benefit from the price increase taken on new enrollments it is being offset by the continued mix shift to Monthly Pass on a global basis.
For the second quarter we expect margin expansion of about 100 basis points driven by the higher growth rate of the dot-com business.
For the full-year gross margin should be up around 200 basis points and second half volumes improve and we get fuller benefits from pricing with the larger percentage of the membership base on the new higher price.
Our Q1 operating margin declined 650 basis points to 20.4%.
As expected marketing investment was up significantly in support of men’s in international online TV campaigns.
Specifically marketing rose 36% up 690 basis points to 25.9% of sales.
This was a bit less than our expectation of a 750 basis point increase in the first quarter due largely to timing.
For Q2 we expect marketing to increase 200 to 250 basis points in support of a Weight Watchers Online product particularly internationally.
For the second half we expect marketing as a percentage of revenue to be flat versus prior and aggregate but due to the timing campaigns Q3 should be much higher and Q4 much lower than a year ago.
Full-year marketing as a percentage of revenue should be up 200 to 250 basis points for the year consistent with our prior expectations.
G&amp;A rose 70 basis points to 11% of revenue in the quarter contributors to this increase was expected.
Ongoing investments for future growth including our B2B selling capabilities technology project development and new CRM platforms.
We expect G&amp;A to increase as a percentage of revenue by roughly 50 to 100 basis points for Q2 and by 50 to 70 basis points for the full year.
Turning to cash flow.
In Q1 we announced and commenced our "modified Dutch auction" tender offer from the public and related share repurchase from our majority shareholder.
In total we purchased approximately 18.3 million shares and $82 per share for a total cost of approximately $1.5 billion.
Note that we expected the tender in the late March purchasing roughly 8.8 million shares from our shareholders and then purchased the balance from our majority shareholder in the early April.
We therefore ended the quarter with about 65 million shares outstanding but currently have approximately 56 million outstanding.
as a result our average share counts should be roughly 57 million in Q2 this year following to approximately $56 million in the second half of this year translating into a full year 2012 average share count of about 61 million.
In connection with these transactions we successfully refinanced our debt at favorable rates and currently have about $2.5 billion in debt on the balance sheet with an effective interest rate between 3.5% and 4%.
Note that this is higher than the roughly $1.8 billion we had at the end of the quarter given the timing of the transactions.
For the year we expect to pay down at a minimum $125 million in principal and our full year 2012 interest expense should be in the range of $85 million inclusive of $3 million to $4 million of incremental amortization of fees related to the transactions.
Given these factors the transaction is expected to be $0.50 to $0.55 accretive in 2012 with a meaningfully increased accretion benefit in 2013 and beyond as we recognized full year impact.
In Q1 we had cash flow from operating activities of $111 million.
Now that the tender offer buyback and related stock repurchase are complete our priorities for free cash flow are franchise acquisitions in deleveraging.
We continue to expect the 2012 tax rate of 38.5%.
Before turning to our strategic focus areas a quick housekeeping note.
Our prior earnings release stated that Q4 2011 online paid weeks were $22.6 million; the correct number was $21.5 million.
as a result 2011 fourth quarter online paid weeks growth versus prior was 58.8% rather than 67.0% and total company paid weeks growth was 30.7% rather than 33.9%.
For the full year 2011 online paid weeks growth versus prior year was 67.6% rather than 69.7% and total company paid weeks growth was 37.3% rather than 38.1%.
Looking forward I am heartened by the strong consumer demand and vibrancy of the Weight Watchers’ brand as evidenced by our 12% growth in global combined paid weeks in Q1 2012 even on top of the outstanding growth we saw in Q1 2011.
However I am disappointed by the financial performance this quarter which was driven significantly by execution issues in both marketing and parts of our operations.
I bear responsibility for those misses.
This organization is incredibly committed to both our mission and to our shareholders.
Everyone deserves our very best levels performance at all times and we will continue to push ourselves to do better.
We believe passionately that we have a major growth opportunity for Weight Watchers and becoming more integrated into the healthcare system.
There is no other organization that can deliver Weight management outcomes with our combination of efficacy low-cost and scalability.
As I here so many times when I talk to people in the healthcare space Weight Watchers is now at a moment in time in which they’re kind of accomplish something truly great in helping the world pivot to disease prevention.
It is up to us to capitalize on this opportunity.
Organizationally we have spent our last nearly 50 years as the Grassroots direct-to-consumer Company.
During that time we have learned to be better than anyone else in helping people make sustained changes in their eating habits.
We understand consumers and we know how to help them.
During the past decade we’ve also grown progressively stronger and our ability to leverage technology to aid in the behavior change process.
All of this has resulted in a brand that has new found strength and relevance with consumers.
one of our challenges moving forward is to develop a similarly compelling set of skills and aptitudes and serve in the healthcare space ranging from employers to payers to providers to governments.
This will require a new set of B2B skills.
We’ve continued to make excellent strides in hiring high-quality B2B leadership and talent.
and we continue to move steadily up the learning curves.
While we do not expect this process to always be easy.
we are fully committed to achieving our destiny as a leading player in healthcare.
In our traditional business we’re frustrated that we did not execute our marketing consistently across our markets particularly in the U.K.
However we continue to learn and refine our marketing playbook.
the quality of our marketing has improved substantially over the past five years; we expected to keep improving over the next five years.
Now a brief update of some of our ongoing strategic initiatives we cannot upgrade them.
We're making good progress on the retail rollout.
as of the end of Q1 2012 we have upgraded or moved 289 of our NACO centers or about 43% of total.
We continue to be on pace to be 80% completed by the end of 2012.
we view our retail upgrade as both an opportunity to gain near-term enrollment benefit and equally importantly an occasion to rethink how we use our retail centers to create new opportunities to innovate our service and our product offerings.
We'll have more to say about this on future calls.
Healthcare beyond what we've already reviewed.
we will continue to spend 2012 building up our ability to attract and service large employer accounts and we have a strong pipeline going into Q2 and beyond.
our focus will continue to be on ensuring that we can service these new accounts with strong account management who’ll also meeting their data reporting needs.
Technology product development is a never-ending process for the WeightWatchers.com team and they have a busy schedule in front of them.
In particular we now have multiple plan releases a mobile functionality in many of our international markets.
Guidance instead of our enrollment challenges in Q1 was somewhat worse than we had originally anticipated when we provided guidance on the last call.
In particular it has taken us longer to dig out of the hole we created for ourselves in the small count corporate business in the U.S.
And therefore the impact of Q1 challenges will create pressure on our top line results in the remaining quarters of 2012 specifically in our meetings business.
For Q2 the flow-through of Q1 softness in the meetings business will result in declining revenue in the mid-single digits.
Growth in Internet revenues will provide a greater positive impact which should allow us to achieve total revenue growth for Q2 in the low single digits.
This coupled with the financial impacts I discussed earlier translates into operating income being flat to down in the low single digits.
As we move into the second half of this year volume trends should stabilize in the meetings business and we will continue to benefit from growing WeightWatchers.com volumes.
This combined with the growing benefit from our price increase should result in top line growth and high single digits for the second half of the year.
Given this coupled with the marketing timing I discussed earlier operating income should therefore accelerate in the Q3 and more so in Q4.
For the full year we are narrowing and lowering our guidance range of 2012 EPS to $4.60 to $4.80 which includes $0.50 to $0.55 per fully diluted share accretion benefit from our tender offer transaction and related share repurchase.
This compares with the previously provided range of $4.20 to $4.60 per fully diluted which at the time excluded a then estimated 2012 accretion benefit of $0.45 to $0.60 per fully diluted share.
At this time operator I would like to take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
I guess first of all are you still sticking with the 30% to 35% paid weeks growth on the .com business because it sounded – in the thesis you gave it sounded like that might not be the case anymore? We’re definitely looking for 30% for Q2 in that range.
and we think that we should have good momentum going into the second half.
and I kind of want to see the sort of the full results of the spring campaign come in.
So let me provide a little bit of additional guidance once we get into our Q2 call.
But 30% to 35% for the year you don’t necessarily feel good about it at this point? No because actually if you think about it we started the Q1 with 35% or 30%.
and so 30% for the year actually should be 30% 35% should actually be still reasonable in striking distance.
Okay okay.
And then I guess gross margin and I know you gave some put and takes.
The mix benefit alone should have you generating gross margin benefit year-on-year in the range of about 300 basis points or depending on how you cut the numbers this quarter it’s only up 100 it looks like Q2 it’s like I guess you can talk bigger picture I mean do you expect there to be just in gross margin drags where the mix lift that’s going to be big part of the gross margin so this is not really realistic any more of the long term could you just I guess give a little more color on that.
The color I would give is that the mix lift towards the .com business you described is the way we dimensionalizing.
The drag for this particular quarter was due to softer attendance at NACO which in turn dropped our meeting averages as well there was a little bit investment and some of the healthcare efforts ended up on the cost of goods line as it’s some one-time expenses of retail roll outs.
One of the things if you kind of think about what we’ve done with the price increase in the beginning of the year as we took pretty much the most conservative approach we could have taken by grandfathering it.
So what that meant was sort of maximal drag on enrollments because it impacted everybody knew who would be enrolling but we really didn’t get much benefit of it in the first quarter.
So by way of example I would estimate that if you’re looking at our NACO meeting fees roughly a third would be those on the higher price as opposed to those on the grandfathered price.
What happens over the course of the quarter is that 33% continues to go steadily up as the year progresses and you have more and more people on the new price which in turn becomes gross margin accretive so what you end up with is the second half where you’re getting mixed benefit with the .com business you should see stabilization in terms of average meeting size versus what we saw in Q1.
And then finally you start getting the benefit of the higher pricing that really starts hitting its stride as you get into the summer fall.
And so those things in combination is what then causes gross margin to left back out.
Got it.
and I guess this one last one obviously the small business piece that had a big impact but it’s more than bad.
I mean there is some leakage else at the P&amp;L.
I guess can you talk a little bit about the visibility you have in the earning this time of year especially in light of the fact that I mean just brought back a quarter at the company at $82.
The stocks are going to be materially below that I was just wondering if you can comment on that a little and I’ll jump off.
Okay so the visibility of the company if you look at the P&amp;L the aspects of the company where we have terrific visibility as on the volume line of retention which continues to be [Roxell] so that’s very predictable.
We have good predictability in terms of Monthly Pass mix.
How we think pricing is going to be rolling in we have good predictability and moreover going to be deploying marketing dollars how G&amp;A is going to come in and we’ve got good visibility in terms of operating expense and cost of goods.
Obviously the one part of the business that it’s always the most difficult to forecast is the number of people enrolling in a given period of time.
And so really if you think about what we have is data points right now as we have the benefit of Q1 which to your point we knew it was going to a tough quarter and we knew it was a tough comparable yet we have multiple self inflected wounds particularly at the small cap business which is frustrating as well as the UK marketing which is also frustrating but nonetheless I think as we look out from a year going forward the good news for us is that the impact of enrollments further out you get into the year has a diminishing impact in terms of the total financial results for the year because greater portion all the monthly income grew less portion of the membership mix going forward.
So in other words if you have variability in enrollment volumes say for example in December it really doesn’t have a big impact in terms of overall financial performance if you’re taking at the extreme.
So I think that as the year progresses we are getting increasing visibility into the business that’s giving us a much stronger comfort level at where we are.
With respect to the tender keep in mind the reason for doing the tender was because we’ve gone to a point that we had felt that our capital structure had become inefficient with relatively high weighted average cost to capital because we are so much heavily waited toward equity and so we felt that this was a business that could take on more leverage that could return and distribute back to shareholders and we could have done that in a special dividend or we could have done in the form of a share repurchase we choose to do in the form of a share repurchase as a way of returning value to shareholders while improving the efficiency of our capital structure and we made the decision to do that when we did because the debt markets was there and everything else was sort of the timing was appropriate and so we made a independently of that we weren’t trying to time the market and we believe that you know while again we are disappointed and frustrated by some of the specifics around Q1 it has not changed our perspective on the long-term and frankly medium-term growth prospects for those business which is all the reasons I have been incredibility excited about it throughout last year going into this year and going to next five years all those things are in place and I think ultimately I have absolutely no doubt in my mind what so ever that we are going to be driving significantly shareholder value that is going to continue to validate that the decision we made with the tender was a really smart one.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Wang of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi thank you for taking the questions.
I guess my first question is related to the retail transformation or the relocations in remodeled stores I guess if you could just talk a little bit about what you are seeing from the sales list whether you are seeing obviously it’s a little bit weak so I guess could you just talk how that batch of stores I think – about 25% of the stores were done prior to the first quarter and to have those performed relative to I guess the group that was not done? Sure so let me first half dimensionalize the impact that those new store of things could have on our business.
What I mean by that is we started the year with 25% of our systems being upgraded if you will.
If you think about the attendances that happen to NACO about 55% of those flow through these retail centers so really if you take 25% or 55% you are taking 12% to 13% of the attendance space that was eligible for lift if you will and so because we had a relatively lower starting base it did not have the opportunity to have the aggregate impact on the business that we would have like to have seen.
That was one of the things that we are hoping to kind of have in our back pocket or winning our sales if you will going into this year but it’s just too many things with local regulations and permitting and everything else that they just we weren’t able quite get to that 50% target that the goal that we set for ourselves.
In terms of measuring lift we are now getting into a period where it’s getting harder to do when we first measure lift we were doing it on control markets where we get a true apples-to-apples reading and remember it’s a little bit complicated by the fact that we have centers that are office run by traveling locations that’s where we saw kind of full market by full market with 15% to 20% lift.
What we are now seeing is that as leases come up we are taking those opportunities to upgrade stores and so it’s substantially more difficult to isolate impact because there is a lot of other store network affects that are pretty hard to disentangle.
What we know anecdotally is that we are still seeing a lot of excitement anecdotally.
We still see in here lots of stories of big jumps and enrollments in various locations it’s harder for us to measure scientifically.
What I’d also point out about the stores is that while we believe that we are continuing to get and will continue to get additional benefit in terms of that you get from greater visibility and by traffic everything else is that this new network of stores from a strategic point of view we think is a pretty big deal.
The difference between having a network of locations that are hidden and mostly closed and less desirable locations versus new locations which are brightly let very visible and convenient locations and open during normal retail hours allows us to begin using our store network as a strategic assets that bank the question of what else can we use those stores to do and how come we use this new platform to further innovate in a way that we help people through a behavioral change process.
And again we will have more things to talk about that on later calls.
But I view this retail platform as a critical new strategic platform that it’s going to do a lot of good things for us above and beyond just the immediate benefit of enrollment lift.
All right great.
Thank you.
And also just moving over to the business-to-business healthcare initiative I guess obviously in other words some problems in 1Q with the transitions from fixed week the fixed payment to the corporate monthly pass.
I guess if you can just explain to us how you go about fixing that it if you just can tell training employees how to sign up on this sort of online portal thing and I guess is the problem fixed now and I heard that the portal was actually down for a little while during 1Q.
Can you confirm or deny that please? Absolutely.
Yeah we did have a couple of things which was at the portal it wasn’t down very much.
That was the lesser of the issues.
Really the primary issue with the small accounts is to put some more color around it imagine you are with a small kind i.e.
a single location there is an employee who is a Weight Watchers member is excited about having Weight Watchers on campus.
He or she would attempt to gather typically 20 other people at that location and get them on board at which point they would meet a minimum threshold.
We will have something called an information session where typically a Weight Watchers leader sometimes with the sales rep they would come in give an information session get people excited and secure commitments that would allow us to sort of tip over and secure that we had enough control memberships that we could then open up the meeting because there is typically a minimum meeting size depending on situations anywhere from 15 to 20.
If we are short of that minimum meeting size the meeting doesn’t open at all.
And effectively those people have to pen for themselves by finding a local community meeting which will effectively mean watch the enrollments.
What was happening was that sort of information system session where the person is on site.
What we missed in that is that it played a critical role in sort of kind of getting those last four or five incremental members which made the difference between opening the meeting and not opening the meeting.
In our effort to replace that with this kind of fully automated web-based solution we lost the sense of urgency if you will in how we got the new meeting initiative.
So what we’ve now done is we are still keeping that one portal open but what we are also doing is we’re returning to the practice of having these information systems so we can not lose the benefit of that urgency.
What we are also is that because the team feels terribly about missing everything else.
They’re operating with a tremendous sense of urgency in a full court press to really sort of scrap and push to get accounts than otherwise were lost try to get them signed back up.
It’s the last hurdle to do that in March and April than it is to do that in January but there is still with each passing week making pretty good progress in terms of systematically slower than we like but systematically closing the gap.
And I really do believe that coming out of this we are going to have a much more thoughtful and well executed approach to dealing with small accounts.
That will ironically put us in a much stronger position.
Having gone through this mini crisis than have we not gone through it at all.
Right and just a follow-up to that do you think there is a chance that you permanently I guess lower the I guess urgency or I guess having the sales leader on sites seems like it’s a more conducive way to get people sign up whereas I don’t how they will go about sort of explain urgency of getting those lost call four or five people to get the meeting on site.
I probably didn’t do a good job of translating it.
We are going to have that in addition to having the website  Both going forward.
It’s going to be both.
The other thing that we are going to do is that for very very small accounts and now I could be talking about a local high school.
We are going to reopen the past building they don’t have to get the Monthly Pass they can still do (inaudible).
So what we’re also doing is we are really getting smarter by segmenting our approach when ironically we did this to benefit the larger accounts.
And the larger account part of the business is going just great.
So that have the desired outcome and we believe that large account part of the business is going to be where most of the growth is as we go out two three five years We figured some pretty tremendous opportunity for us.
And that is absolutely on track the problem is that right this red hot second it’s just not bigger part of.
today’s mix.
And just one last separate question just on the change in the reported fourth quarter on line paid can you explain why there is a change why is it updated.
Yeah it was a clarifier literally because we had a manual process for loading some of that data into our system.
And there was a clinical area that we just frankly missed.
We have since automated the process and we have tightened up some of our controls around non-financial metrics particularly 10 weeks.
So its been dealt with it had zero impact on financial results.
Okay thank you very much.
Yep.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Bob Greg of Stifel Nicolaus please go ahead.
Thanks good afternoon everybody.
Hi Bob.
David in hindsight what was the problem do you think with the UK marketing and looking at most of your countries now Germany France NACO obviously is what they are lacking an effective spokesperson.
I think that is part of it.
What they are lacking was I think what an effective spokesperson does when he works for us is if you’ve someone who people can relate to is also having a weight issue but their success is very visible it’s always a main thing how much inspiration people take from that.
And they have tried something that was a little bit of a different approach they were real members but they were using sort of lots of real members.
And they tried some different things that they thought was an appropriate reflection of kind of culturally where they thought the British consumer was.
And they tried something that was a little bit different.
And I think one of the balances that we’re always trying to reach as an organization is that we want a management team and we want local management team that will try things that will try to push the envelope and we are periodically try to take risks and help us grow and develop the business.
And we are always trying to manage to what degree do we sort off push things top down versus local management teams stretch their legs and try different things.
And in this case my judgment was to be supportive of the UK team and trying something a little bit different.
It didn’t pen out and I think one of the broader statements that I would make about Weight Watchers is that I’m frustrated by the exclusion issues because there are things we could have avoid it and that’s disappointing.
At the same time I don’t want this organization becoming a risk of us.
We’re not going to get to where we need to go but we’re not willing to try things and we’re not willing to push ourselves a little bit that does mean from time-to-time we’re going to skin our knees.
I think we need to sort of be more careful where we run but we need to keep running.
And so when I look at the UK marketing while I am disappointed and I think frankly they look at what’s happening for example in Germany where they are using celebrities spokesperson and their business is growing just great.
Their online business in particularly is completely on fire right now.
So they look at that and say “Okay we got it.” And we know that we need to have something that looks like closer to that.
They came to that conclusion on the row and as opposed to having a pushdown.
Okay was Monthly Pass the price increase there do you think there was a headwind to new enrollment at all? I can always create a little bit of a headwind again because it really impacts new people coming in the door.
And so I can’t rollout that that might have had some effect on it.
And with price increases as you know I mean you do them periodically and sometimes you recognize in the very short-term.
You might encounter a little bit of resistance but than you recognize that as you’re sitting there at this time next year you’re incredibly glad that you did it.
And I think that’s going to the case.
With NACO when I think it’s going to be the case with the UK as well.
Okay you mentioned the male retention being greater than women did you expect that number one and should that continue? No men never sees the bafflement we did not expect that I actually thought that their satisfactions scores among guys doing Weight Watchers Online tend to be a little bit better than women.
I didn’t think that that would translate into a lift on retention but it’s a funny thing.
It’s continues to be curious and amazing to me the number of guys that I run into now or talking about doing Weight Watchers and there are guys that I never would have expected to be doing Weight Watchers and/or having tremendous success with it.
And so it’s certainly gratifying to see them having success and seeing them sticking with their subscription even longer than what we’d anticipated.
Great thanks David.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Greg Badishkanian of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Great thank you.
If you look at just keeping on men’s over the next year or two how big do you think that could be as a percentage of your North American business? It’s a tricky one to dimensionalize but let me provide a couple of statistics for you to maybe help sort of ballpark it.
And then I can talk a little bit about where we are right now versus what we haven’t gotten to going forward.
So first half in terms of what is the aggregate theoretical potential.
Men are as likely to suffer from obesity as women and their health affects that they experience are the same is what woman experience and so that kind of net aggregate need is at least as high for men as it is for women.
However they are about half as like we reduce something about it.
They tend not to face at least today the same sort of pressure around media and having a feel like they need to looks and everything else that you see with women.
So they have been historically was likely to take action.
So if you take that 50% is likely to do something about it that would suggest that a theoretical mix of men would be say a third that’s I believe that the willingness of men to be able to weight issue will increase over time as increased recognition of health affects of obesity would become more more clear.
Then there is what are we doing if we’re currently say for example 15% in Q1 what stands between us in getting to that higher level as we go into the future.
and within the U.S.
I would say that if you look at for example 2012 we’re going to be on I think with guys men’s advertising a total of 15 16 weeks for the full year and still not a huge media weights.
and so one opportunity for us is to use the same playbook we used for Weight Watchers Online to increase media weights into beyond more weeks which is a formulative work really well for Weight Watchers Online.
The other opportunity for us is that we have not yet launched Weight Watchers online for man in any of our international markets and that's also an opportunity that we believe is going to be in front of us.
And so looking at the North American business if you exclude the corporate accounts business did your core meetings business did that improve throughout the quarter and into April? What’s interesting if you look at 2012 2011 sorry if you look at the enrollment trends in 2011 compared to ‘10 and ’09.
we had a just incredibly great enrollment period that did not let up until literally we went off promotions getting in toward the end of March prior to getting into the Easter timing.
and as I looked at 2012 one of the things that I was comparing to is I was doing that comparison up to 2011 but I was also comparing to 2010 and 2009 which didn’t obviously have anything of [value] to the PointsPlus launch and the good news was that 2012 enrollments from both members and rejoins were pretty consistently ahead nicely ahead of both ‘09 and ‘10.
So I think that that was a good indicator that notwithstanding sort of the huge blip we got from the PointsPlus launch in Q1 of last year.
If you look at it kind of on a sustained trendline the enrollment levels we saw in 2012 looks pretty reasonable to us.
Yeah.
In the Easter shift how did that impact trends? Literally the problem with Easter shift is only one of interpret in Q2 results I mean Easter of last year was two weeks later.
Yeah.
And so we have – right now we effectively have three weeks of like-on-like comparisons spring-campaign-to-spring-campaign.
Right.
We did promotionally something a little bit different.
we did a two-week program this spring then jumping to join for free.
and so there are some ins and outs it’s simply just too early to sort of fully sort through what we say in the spring campaign because we can only meaningfully look at three weeks data.
Yeah thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
We have a question from Gary Albanese of Auriga.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Hi David.
Hi Gary.
LLC</strong> Hi.
It just – I don’t mean to beat this issue.
But with the tender I know you don’t try to time the market and I'm sure if you guys going to – were planning this well in advance of the announcement date in February.
But can you just sort of take a step back and think about what the weakness in the – that you are seeing that maybe you should sort of postpone it and sort of wait see and maybe reintroduce it maybe like a month later than you actually did? When we put the tender in place we made that decision as were working up to the earnings release for Q4 when we provided guidance.
And the decision we made the right way to handle this was to announce the tender at the same time we were announcing Q4 results and providing guidance for the year and that fully put the process in place.
The process of that point the tender was sort of going through it’s very regimented and structure process.
and so it would have been just the wrong thing for us to do to make some decision kind of midway through the process based on a couple of extra weeks of data beyond where we were during the Q4 call to do something differently.
So from our point of view I feel pretty comfortable that we timed it in terms of making sure that we’re providing the right information to selling shareholders it was a right opportunity in terms of securing the debt financing because the debt markets were open.
it was the right timing in terms of making sure that the market had full and adequate information and all those things together is what we used to arrive to the decision to launch the tender when we did.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks for that.
Just another issue with the price increase last year when we saw in the meetings business do you think that's acting as a little bit of a drag or is that sort of inconsequential do you think to the customer decision at this point? It’s always a little hard to say when you have so many different things that play including the comprehensive program launch et cetera et cetera.
Again the point I would reiterate is that because we make the decision to grandfather existing members by running a price increase at the beginning of January it really kind of – you could argue that it has a disproportionate effect on enrollment driving activities because it only effects new people enrolling and we really don’t get a lot of financial benefit from it.
Yes we generally are buys to do these types of actions and moves in January because that’s also going to be a higher converting period.
And we knew that if we did this in January over the full-year we’d be getting full benefit from that price increase.
Even though we knew that there was some possibility that it could create some near-term headwind during the first couple months of the year.
So it’s always a little bit of a judgment comp.
But I think in the final analysis it was probably still the right judgment comp.
LLC</strong> Thanks David Yeah.
Thank you.
Mr.
Kirchhoff we have no further question sir.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining us today and I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
The conference call has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference Call.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today Wednesday August 1 2012.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Ms.
Lori Scherwin of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International second quarter 2012 conference call.
With us on the call is David Kirchhoff President and CEO.
At about 4:30 Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of fiscal '12.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial result as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
As has been previously been announced the company has hired a new Chief Financial Office Nick Hotchkin who starts his employment with the company as of August 20 of this year.
Consequently for this call David's remarks will also cover the financial section of the company's results.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining as we review Weight Watchers International's performance for the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
Overall Q2 2012 financial results were in line with our expectations and previously provided guidance.
However as we will discuss later we are now taking a more cautious view of the second half of the year.
During June and July we've seen weakening in our business trends we believe driven by the combination of increasing uncertainty in the economy as well as some indications of wear-out of our current advertising campaign in the U.S.
Turning back to a review of the second quarter.
On a constant currency basis Q2 2012 total revenue was up slightly at plus 2.3% over the prior year period.
With meeting fees down 5.5% and meeting product sales down 8.1% and Internet revenue growing 31%.
Global combined paid weeks were up 11% in Q2 2012 versus the same period last year.
Global meeting paid weeks were down 4.7% in Q2 while global paid weeks for our online product were up 30%.
For Q2 2012 our operating income margin was effectively flat to prior.
While gross margin was up 1.5 percentage points marketing as percentage of revenue was up 1.8 percentage points primarily reflecting continued investment and driving awareness of our Weight Watchers online product.
G&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was close to flat versus prior.
Q2 2012 EPS was $1.36 compared to $1.17 for the same period in 2011 benefitting from a share repurchases earlier this year.
We experienced about $0.06 of unfavorable Forex impact in the second quarter of this year versus prior.
I will now briefly review our results on our major geographies and business units.
First our North American meeting business.
Total make on revenue which includes the U.S.
and Canada in Q2 2012 was down 6.1% on a constant currency basis versus the same period in 2011 a slight improvement over the -8.9% result for the first quarter.
(inaudible) meeting fees declined 6.3% and meeting product sales declined 7.5% versus the prior year quarter driven entirely by attendance volume declines as product sales per attendance grew 2.7%.
NACO Q2 2012 paid weeks declined 5.5% while attendance has declined 9.9% versus a prior year period.
As was the case in Q1 the material portion of the volume shortfall was a result of the continued impact of the execution issues we had earlier this year and the small accounts portion of our corporate business.
Excluding the corporate business NACO paid weeks and attendances in the second quarter were down an estimated 3.6% and 7.4% respectively.
In reviewing the NACO results I will first provide an update on the status of our efforts to address the issues and the small accounts corporate business.
As noted on our previous two calls our issues in the small account portion of our business were driven by our decision to transition all of our corporate accounts including small accounts from defined length series to a corporate version of monthly pass.
This resulted in changes disruptions and problems in the following areas: 1) in shifting to an automated web-based signup process we lost the benefit of having an on-premise information session which is an important recruiting tool to ensure that enough employees are signed up at a given worksite to allow a new at-work meeting to start 2) there were a number of technical problems associates with the web-based enrollment portal and 3) significant changes in procedure created extra burdens for the sales organization which resulted in slow follow-up on new sales leads and in addressing issues.
By March we had fully diagnosed all of the issues and determine the proper path forward and began to systematically implement changes including one fixing the technical issues associated with the online enrollment portal two fully reinstituting the on-premise information sessions and three beginning in early September we will return to selling fixed durations series for accounts with less than 5 000 employees and without a subsidy in place.
By that point we will have effectively addressed and fixed all of the issues which have negatively impacted the volume of meetings starts of January this year.
These changes combined with a range of other initiatives to improve selling effectiveness and product management should make the selling process and our small accounts business stronger than it's ever been before.
The key selling season for the small accounts portion of the corporate business begins in the fall and we plan to be positioned to be operating at full capacity when it begins.
Despite all of our efforts to make up the difference from the weak start we won't be able to compensate for the significant double-digits in declines in enrollments we had in this sector of our business in the first quarter.
For the full year we now expect operating income associated with this line of business to be negatively impacted by about $19 million.
As we look to 2013 our expectation is that we will  recover much of the volume we lost this year.
This combined with continued growth in the strategic accounts portion of our corporate business will be a meaningful revenue and profit driver in 2013.
The second significant issue facing our North American meetings business comes from our efforts to attract members through our traditional consumer channel.
While enrollment level were solid in April and early May we saw a considerable slow down beginning in June and continuing into July While these are traditionally slower months for enrollments we are nonetheless concerned by the trends we're seeing.
During the last two months we like many other consumer businesses have seen clear indications of consumer disengagement as consumer confidence levels and spending have fallen.
Our ability to enroll members into our program is linked to consumer confidence and spending given that the timing of a consumer's decision to start a weight-loss effort is inherently discretionary.
Whereas in 2011 we had the benefit of a strong innovation and a relatively fresh advertising campaign to counter the general economic weakness this year we do not.
It is clear that being at the tail end of our typical two-year innovation cycle and in the third year of marketing campaign coupled with increasing weakness in the economy is negatively impacting our business.
Despite our challenges in attracting members retention remains strong.
As many of you have heard Jessica Simpson entered into a partnership with us and she's been on the program for the past few months.
She's doing great on the program and we're excited to work with her.
We believe Jessica will be a great role model and spokesperson for us along with Jennifer Hudson as we enter 2013 but we're not assuming that this new partnership will result in much enrollment benefit in 2012.
In this context we're now operating under the assumption that enrollment trends for the remainder of the year will be worse than we had originally forecasted.
While we originally expected second half attendances to be roughly flat to prior and for paid weeks to grow modestly we're now forecasting high single-digit declines in attendances and paid weeks.
Now on to the International Meetings business.
As expected the U.K.
business continued on its existing negative trend in the second quarter as enrollment levels remain weak.
Q2 2012 total meetings business revenues declined 11% on a constant currency basis with meeting fees down 13% and in-meeting products sales down 12% versus the prior year period.
As noted on our last quarterly call the U.K.'s advertising campaign has been relatively ineffective and driving un-enrollment since it was launched this past year particularly in light of the recessionary environment in that country.
As we noted previously the process of redoing an advertising campaign takes time however the U.K.
team is continuing to work towards it goal of (inaudible) 2013 with a completely new higher impact advertising campaign.
For the remainder of the year we expect the trends in the second half to effectively mirror the first half of the year.
Moving on to Continental Europe.
Continental Europe continued to be a bright spot in our meetings business despite the weak economy with particular strength in France and Germany which are both benefitting from high-impact advertising campaigns and the ProPoints 2.0 innovation we launched earlier this year.
Overall total (inaudible) meetings business revenues grew 5.7% in the constant currency basis in Q2 versus prior with meeting fees up 7.5% and meeting product sales down 1.8%.
Paid weeks grew 11% compared to prior while attendances grew 2.7%.
We expect these revenue and volume trends to continue throughout the second half of the year.
Moving on to weightwatchers.com.
For the second quarter overall results for our Internet business remains strong particularly in our CE business.
Internet revenues were up 31% on a constant currency basis paid weeks for our online product were up a similar 30% and end of period active subscribers were up 26%.
Recruitment trends in the first half in Q2 were for the Weight Watchers online product across the board including in the U.S.
However the end of May and much of June was weaker due primarily to the differences in the promotional campaigns employed as well as a somewhat different media mix.
Online signups have since strengthened in the U.S.
although not to the levels that we had previously forecasted.
The fact that we're at the end of our two-year innovation cycle and the increase in weakness in the economy are also having an impact on the weightwatchers.com business tempering the overall growth rates relative to what we saw in the first half.
For the second half of the year we expect paid weeks growth of 15% to 20%.
This will result in full year volume growth of roughly 25% for the year rather than the previous provided guidance of 30%.
The difference in operating income resulting from this forecast change is roughly $20 million for the year most of which will come in the second half.
Despite our second half outlook we see significant growth ahead of us for the Weight Watchers online product both domestically and internationally.
Our strategy will be to continue increasing value in both program and software tools in ways that no one else can match.
This combined with a new program innovation and fresh marketing in 2013 will create new opportunities to drive further growth in this highly profitable product line while we still deliver an excellent financial result in 2012.
Now I will review some additional financial results for the quarter.
Our other revenues declined 2.8% on a constant currency basis.
Within this franchise commissions declined 11.2% versus prior.
Licensing revenues were up 2.5% without the benefit of a one-time termination from a licensee who we replaced.
In the quarter currency negatively impacted revenue by 2.5% operating income by 2.3% and net income by 3.7% resulting in a roughly $0.06 negative impact to diluted EPS.
For the balance of 2012 we're assuming continued softness in key exchange rates for our business notably the euro.
Gross margin was 150 basis to 60.6% in the quarter a high watermark driven mainly by the mix shift toward our higher margin weightwatchers.com business.
The gross margin benefit from the weightwatchers.com business was partially offset by a decline in  meetings gross margin which was negatively impacted by lower volume as well as expenses associated with our healthcare and B2B initiatives.
Meetings pricing is measured by (inaudible) income per paid week was down about 1% versus prior.
Although we're starting to realize benefits from the price increase taken last year in the U.S.
it was offset this quarter by the continued mix shift to monthly pass on a global basis the impact of the monthly pass and transition and small accounts portion of our corporate in the U.S.
and some promotional timing changes in the quarter.
We expect to see improvement in this pricing metric in the second half of 2012.
For the full year we expect gross margin expansion of 100 to 150 basis points driven by improved price realization and continued benefits from the dot.com business.
Within the second half the large majority of the year-over-yea increase will come in the fourth quarter relative to the third.
As expected marketing investment was up in the support of the men's initiative in the U.S.
and the international online TV campaigns.
Specifically marketing rose 14.4% on a constant currency basis and was up 180 basis points to 17.3% of revenue.
For the year our marketing spend expectations on a dollar basis are unchanged.
But given the weaker top line outlook as a percentage of sales we now expect marketing to be up around 300 basis points for the full year versus 2011.
In the second half we expect a much larger increase in Q3 relative to Q4.
G&amp;A declined 10 basis points as a percentage of sales to 11.6% in Q2 which was below our earlier expectations due to the timing of investments and the impact of lower expenses tide to business performance.
We remain committed to investing behind our long-term growth platforms including B2B technology and SRM and expect full year dollar spending to be in line with our prior expectations.
However given the lower sales outlook on a percentage of revenue basis we now expect SG&amp;A to be up about 100 basis points for the year.
We thought it would be helpful to provide a little more color on our spend levels for key initiatives.
For 2012 these investments total $39 million and are $20 million incremental to what we spent in 2011.
The largest buckets in terms of instrumentality are healthcare and CRM which total roughly $11 million.
Within healthcare and B2B we're spending against new hires technology training and consulting.
Our (inaudible) operating margin declined 30 basis points to 31.7%.
Below operating profit our interest expense was $8.8 million higher than the prior year quarter due to higher debt levels and we also had a one-time charge of roughly $2 million related to the write-down of an investment.
We had no change to our prior expectations for a share count of $56 million in the second half leading to a full year average count of 61 million shares driven by the tender and related share repurchase we executed earlier this year.
We entered the quarter with $2.5 billion of debt on the balance sheet and $2.4 billion of net debt.
Our net debt to EBITDAS ratio was 4.4 at the end of the second quarter and we expect to finish the year roughly at the same level.
Furthermore we expect full year 2012 interest expense to be in the range of $85 million inclusive of $3 million to $4 million of incremental amortization of fees related to the transactions.
In Q2 we had cash flow from operating activities of $70 million.
Our priorities for free cash flow remain unchanged.
Franchise acquisitions deleveraging from the transaction and paying our quarterly dividend.
We continue to expect the 2012 tax rate to be 38.5%.
Looking forward.
Despite a strong year for Weight Watchers online and our CE business we are very far from satisfied with our results for this year.
While NACO in the U.K.
undoubtedly had difficult comparables given the success of last year's innovation we can and will do better to drive more consistent results in these businesses.
Weight management has proven to be sensitive to consumer discretionary spend and larger macro economic trends have not been favorable.
For example a review of Internet search volume for us and our largest competitors suggest that consumer interest in the weight management category as a whole has been soft.
Fundamentally the process of convincing a person to start a weight management is never an easy one.
Its consumers are often inclined to procrastinate particularly when they're anxious about other things such as the economy political climate etc.
In review of 2012 our business was particularly hurt by the following: 1) a continued weak consumer economy in both U.S.
and Europe 2) the exceptional breakdown of our small accounts corporate business and 3) a weak U.K.
advertising campaign.
Based on the economic trends we're seeing we do not have expectations of a brighter consumer economy in 2013.
However our experience in 2011 demonstrates that the combination of innovation and fresh marketing can allow us to rise above macro economic trends.
With all of this in mind we have much in the works for 2013 including one a new program.
While it is still too soon to reveal many of the details we're in the process of wrapping up the development of a significant new program upgrade across all of our major markets currently planned for launch in time for January next year.
We believe that this new program the potential to significantly improve our ability to help members make sustained changes in their weight-loss behaviors.
While this innovation is not of the same scope as the  platform change we launched with ProPoints in 2011 we believe it will be meaningful nonetheless.
Two new advertising campaigns.
With all the learnings from 2012 as well as the opportunity to build new partnership with new brand ambassador such as Jessica Simpson we will be in a position to deliver much more effective marketing campaigns next year.
Three recovery of the small accounts business.
With the execution issues that caused the January breakdown behind us we plan to enter 2013 with the strongest selling capability ever and minimum recapturing a significant portion of the volume we lost this year would result in a meaningful financial improvement for 2013.
Four continued growth in our strategic accounts business.
This line of business has grown significantly in 2012.
It is beginning to become much more revenue significant in our corporate portfolio.
We will have more specifics to share about our plans and expectations for this business in future earnings calls.
Five we remain on track to have 80% of our retail system fully converted to stronger locations and better stores in the U.S.
by year end.
Of course we're continuing to work on our long-term growth objectives particularly in the healthcare context.
All of the trends here continue to be favorable for us in the medium to long term.
Most recently the United States Preventive Services Task Force updated its recommendations on obesity for physicians with the following key points: 1) that doctors should screen all adults patients for obesity 2) that doctors should refer patients with a BMI of 30 or higher to intensive multi-component behavioral interventions.
The recommendations defines elements of the intensive multi-component behavioral therapy to include group sessions individual sessions setting weight-loss goals improving diet or nutrition physical activity sessions addressing barriers to change active use of self-monitoring and strategizing how to maintain lifestyle changes.
In other words programs like Weight Watchers.
It then went on to note that although intensive interventions may be impractical within many primary care settings patients may be referred from primary care to community-based programs for these interventions 4) the recommendation was given a rating of B.
The Affordable Care Act either requires or provides strong incentives for all major payers to cover USPSTF recommended preventive services either A or B ratings and such coverage must with no-cost sharing.
The result of the B rating under this recommendation on obesity is any non-grandfathered group health planner individual health insurance coverage must cover the screening or referral to intensive multi-component behavioral therapy and by implication should ultimately lead to the covering of the cost of therapy i.e.
Weight Watchers.
There's a significant distance between a USPSTF recommendation and actually securing reimbursement for Weight Watchers but we believe these types of changes to the healthcare system only benefit us in the coming years.
We're actively developing and refining our broader healthcare strategy objectives and milestones which we will share on future calls.
Undoubtedly we will have to pursue a range of strategies and pilots to unlock this opportunity.
Guidance.
Given the weakness we're now seeing in the NACO that began in June and some of its spillover effect on the U.S.
Weight Watchers online business were in the difficult position of having to reduce our guidance for this year again.
The second half recovery that we previously forecasted will not happen.
A revised view of the NACO and weightwatchers.com business has a combined effect of $0.40 to $0.50 per fully diluted share.
We also see some additional vulnerability in Europe given economic uncertainty as well as additional Forex exposure.
Given all of the above we are now forecasting EPS of $4.00 to $4.20 for the year.
As we look at 2013 we're optimistic about our ability to strengthen our trends but we realize that we start the year with a lower membership base in our meetings business given expected weeks second half 2012 recruitments.
At this time I would like to take questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our first question is from Christopher Ferrara Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
David can you talk a little bit about CPs and marketing and I guess a decision to keep the marketing budget in dollars despite the weakness.
I mean I know it would sound like the right thing to do but I think it deviates a little bit from what we've seen from you guys in the past.
So can you just talk about your feeling on the returns on those investments and the change in philosophy there? Yeah its a great question Chris thank you.
When I look at the marketing spend let me first make the distinction between the marketing investments we've made in the dot.com business versus the investments we've made in the meetings business.
We continue to feel good about the marketing investments we've made in the dot.com business relative to many of our expected CPAs in overall marketing efficiency.
I mean with some of the general top line weakness we've seen in June and July that we're expecting to go into the second half that will obviously have somewhat of a deleterious impact on marketing efficiency but we continue to believe that the return on investments on those dollars are going to continue to be attractive You know what we saw is what we got into June and July which was something that we weren't expecting is that ramped for example four weeks of advertising in June and we've been running another four weeks of advertising in July and you know frankly we simply did not see a very meaningful lift in terms of enrollment levels when we turned on advertising versus when advertising was off.
And to us that's a pretty clear indication that the advertising messages that we're delivery which as you heard me mention in my remarks are getting toward very much of the tail end of that campaign are just not having salience with consumers particularly in kind of this current macro contest.
So we think it's sort of the combination of general consumer sentiment and the fact that we're now effectively in the third year of this particular marketing campaign.
And those two things they came on a lot faster than we expected in terms of what seems to be wear-out and that the fact that we didn't see mix.
Obviously if I'd have had foresight into that we wouldn't have been on air in June and July because I can't believe that the return on investment that would be attractive.
And that leaves us with another frankly six weeks of marketing we have coming up this fall.
As I think you know the majority of the advertising that we purchase we buy in the up-fronts market and as a result to a certain extent say six months or out we have a certain amount of flexibility in terms of reducing or trading off some of our advertising commitments.
But the relative speed in which sort of this kind top line or responsiveness softening happened I think limits our options in terms of making adjustments for the marketing spend this fall.
So to a certain extent the die for the second half of this year has been somewhat cast.
I think what this is showing us is that as we go forward into 2013 I think we need to seriously evaluate other options to afford ourselves more flexibility.
To be a little bit more responsive in the way we deploy marketing dollars so that we can on one hand be opportunistic when we have a good hand and at the other hand we can effectively pull back some of that spend that would be on the margin less efficient when some of the sort of broader trends are working against us.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And I guess you know to that effect too I mean the SG&amp;A now your saying up 100 basis points.
It's a little more.
There's also...
you guys are choosing to pull any levers there? Right? To kind of manage earnings a little.
I'm just curious why you're taking that approach? Well if you look at the G&amp;A for the second half of the year in particular there's a number of ins and outs.
You know there's things as esoteric as copying against an accrual drop that we have last that we don't have this year.
That's impacting G&amp;A.
You know we're out of time on our lease of our office building so we're having to incur some costs for a move that's going to be happening in April of next year.
So there were a number of one-time events that we couldn't avoid or move out of.
The areas where we're particularly seeing G&amp;A spending that we're continuing to sort of push behind are what we consider to be kind of critical investment areas.
So for example our efforts around B2B and related healthcare initiatives that for example includes a significant strategy consulting effort in the healthcare space which is going to be an important part of building out that sort of three-year strategic plan.
We felt that it was important to continue to investing behind that given the critical roll we believe that that nascent business unit is going to play in our future over the coming years.
And related to that there's a certain amount of technology spend that we're having to deploy particularly in data capture and meeting rooms that's going to be important in terms of unlocking that opportunity.
On the other hand when I look at other aspects of G&amp;A I would characterize the organization as having a fairly high degree of lockdown in terms of deferring hirings cutting back expenses anywhere we can find them and so we're in kind of the balancing act of making sure we don't cut off oxygen to critical investment areas while at the same time sharpening our pencils in places where its not going to have a meaningful impact on business results.
That's helpful and then just one last one on dot.com I guess.
I know you're saying again (inaudible) very well this quarter.
Right? In the back half of the year you're looking at 15% to 20% growth I think you said.
Can you talk about the cadence of that? Right? I mean are we talking a much growth rate in Q3 versus Q4 or do you think they'll be relatively evenly spread? And then if you could kind of comment even if its qualitatively on the growth rate of that business and the sustainability of the annual growth number.
Yeah.
I mean the expectation we have in terms of volume growth in paid weeks in Q3 and Q4 are fairly comparable looking for lets say give or take 15% to 20% paid weeks growth.
There might be a little bit of variation within that.
You know if you look at what impacts dot.com its both a combination of the advertising that's specifically developed to drive awareness to dot.com product but it also the dot.com product benefits as the brand in general is doing well.
So if your brand campaign the (inaudible) campaign loses a little bit of salience that also has somewhat of a negative impact on the dot.com business.
And then furthermore the same thing is true for being at the tail end of the innovation cycle.
So therefore in a lot of what we're doing in forecasting the second half of the year is really based on making a judgment call based on what we saw which was a relatively more sudden shift in June and July and choosing to be conservative on that basis.
As we enter 2013 we obviously have a different set of expectations on the online business because we kind of get back to the point that yes the economy is still difficult but then the dot.com business you have the benefit of the fact that it has a relatively lower price point which has traditionally allowed it fair better during the recessionary environment that we've now been in for the past three or four years.
And then if you add on top of that the benefit of program news continued innovation around the actual set of software tools and new marketing campaigns that we believe that those are the types of things that are going to allow us to sort of push growth back into the volume of that business.
Also recognize that for us by the time you get into the second half of the year in terms of marketing levers there’s really not that much left.
We have a fall campaign which is our lightest campaign of the year versus winter and spring.
It’s not very many weeks and then you’re kind of like - we basically go dark in November and December so there’s not a lot to be done to shift the trends.
So I think a lot of what you’re hearing both about .com as well as with meetings business more broadly is the reflection of the fact that given what we’re seeing right now given the degrees of freedom we have and the options we have in the second half this really is lending us to spend therefore the vast majority of our time of doing what we can to manage as financially responsibly as possible in the second half while making sure that we’re in position as we enter January 2013.
Okay.
Thanks for all the color Dave.
Yep.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Jerry Herman of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
Hey Jerry.
Dave the first question is about pricing and in particular any evidence that last year’s increases are having an impact especially in light of the extra economic circumstances? Then conversely sort of given that notion would the new program also be potentially accompanied by some promotional activity?  In terms of pricing it’s always a little difficult for us to tease out what might be impacting our ability to bring members in or in better years what’s helping our abilities to bring members in.
But specifically with pricing I can’t rule out the possibility that is contributed a little bit to the effect that the headwinds are having on us.
I would tell you on a positive note that I can say definitively is that the price increase has had zero negative impact on retention.
In other words we’re able to see people who came in at the new price look at their retention trends longitudinally and compare that to people who came in at the old price look at their retention trends longitudinally and we don’t see a difference between the two.
So from a retention point of view we don’t see anything.
From an enrollment point of view it’s harder to tease those things out.
What I would tell you is that the price increase we took this year which again was the first one we had taken in six years at the rate in which the consumer economy is going at some point if you want to take pricing you have to take pricing.
Because given that it doesn’t seem like the consumer environment is going to turn around anytime soon.
I don’t necessarily have any second guesses or regrets about increasing pricing in January.
I certainly believe that as we enter a 2013 were there any issues in terms of it having an ability of us to attract new members I think that would be largely mitigated.
Also keep in mind the way we communicate that price increase is we tend in our marketing and in our web pages where we talk about the pricing of different options we refer to it in dollars per week.
At our current price point we’re still below $10 per week so we haven’t crossed that threshold.
One other point on pricing is that in the first quarter because it was not applied to people that were already customers prior to putting the price in i.e.
we grandfathered people only about 33% give or take of our paid weeks in the first quarter of third were at the higher price point.
That increased to say give or take 50% of our paid weeks for North America in the second quarter.
That’s going to continue increasing over time so that’s why we expect to finally start getting some good leverage on lecture income per paid week as we enter into the second half and certainly as we enter into the first quarter of 2013.
What I would say is that our historic practice is that when we think that we have meaningful program news and something to talk about we do everything we can to talk about it.
So I think you can absolutely expect us using a range of vehicles such as PR and others to make sure in direct mails particularly for lapsed members to make sure that we’re doing a good job of communicating what’s new in the new program.
Again while apologizing for not being able to get into the details we feel like this program is another very important step forward in terms of the way we systematically help people not just lose weight but keep it off.
Great thanks.
You alluded to actually the next question I was going to ask and it’s about retention.
Can you perhaps update us on the retention trends and some of the key channels in the business i.e.
pay weeks pay as you go and online?  Yeah.
The continued good news for us is that even during economically tough times where tension has continued to show itself to be incredibly resilient.
So despite the fact that we’ve seen a fairly steady drop in consumer confidence throughout 2012 we haven’t seen any drop in retention on either monthly pass or on Weight Watchers Online.
So those will continue to hold up really well.
It’s a bit of a recurring theme is that when the economy bites us it does it almost exclusively in the form of our ability to enroll new members into the program.
Again it’s why we’re as focused as we are in making sure that we have something that’s much higher impact as we go into 2012 so we can be much more effective in turning some of those trends around.
Great thanks.
I’ll turn it over.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Brian Wang of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi David.
Actually just a follow up on the last question aren’t enrollments a much smaller percentage of the total in the second half of the year? So I guess if you’d just comment on that.
Yeah they absolutely are a smaller percentage of total.
If you look at the enrollment impact on our business when I think about it I actually think about it for seven months of the year because I start with June which is when we first started seeing the slowdown.
I take it and I just basically take June and July and I project it forward across the five months that follow.
September and October are pretty strong months for us whereas November and particularly December are relatively soft except for the last week of December which is typically a very big week.
So if you look at the seven months that we’re talking about versus the first five months I think it’s safe to say the first five months are a bit bigger but not necessarily as much bigger as you might think.
All right.
Thank you.
I’m sorry.
Hello? Yeah.
I had a couple other follow ups.
Yeah please.
Oh thank you.
Which is also yeah going on the small accounts business I guess what changes have you made in people accountability or incentive that gives you the confidence that that’ll be executed better going forward or for the following… Yeah.
Kind of everything which is we have a new person who is responsible for the sales organization in that small accounts business.
We’re putting in an entirely new process that we’re using to measure and keep track of inbound leads conversion of leads getting a much clearer visibility into the pipeline per sales rep.
Putting in sort of frankly sales tools that honestly when I look back I would argue that we probably should have had in place in the first place.
But again it’s sort of as we’re kind of getting better at becoming sort of more [fast flow] in what I’ll call B2B skills we’re employing a lot of those practices that you would expect from a company that perhaps would have already been doing it for 20 years.
So we’re putting in a pretty wide - we really have had a full chord press on that business over the past six months.
Going through every single nook and cranny of it and completely changing around the entire way that we manage it and being much more focused on it.
Frankly more focused on it than we’ve been in the 12 years plus I’ve been associated with weight watchers.
When I look at the plans that we have in place and I look at the amount of attention being put against it and I look at the leadership we’re deploying against it it makes me feel much more confident that we’re going to be in a much better position going into this October than we were when we were going in last October.
All right.
Can you just let us know - I think first quarter is the attendance in that small accounts business was down about 30%.
Can you give us an update for what that was in second quarter? It was down less in the second quarter.
What I would say is that was at least as significant is that if attendances were down 30% enrollments were down even more than that in the small account portion of that business.
So what I would say is that the attendance trends and actually more specifically the paid weeks trends that we’ve seen have continued to moderate over the course of the year.
Again we had hoped that we were going to be able to cross the line and come even with prior year by this time.
That’s not happening quite yet.
But I think now we’re talking more in kind of the single digits on paid weeks versus prior today than as opposed to where we were in the first quarter.
All right.
Do you have any visibility into if those customers are going to some of your competitors whether they’re self-dieting or whether they’re just not doing anything? I don’t know if you have any visibility into that? I think that the trick the problem or however you want to think about it is that there’s really not that many competitors that do exactly what we do in terms of providing group support and behavior modification for weight management for corporate customers.
So I think what literally happens is that - and again I’ll continue to press upon the point that this was the small accounts portion of the business.
Our business in the large accounts side of the portfolio is up significantly in double digits.
So we’re doing fine.
We have new accounts that we just brought on board yet again this quarter.
That part of the business is doing fine.
In fact the only thing that’s at all an issue in the strategic business is that we’ve had to allocate so many resources to clean up the small account.
We didn’t have quite as much focus on building up the strategic side of the business as we would have liked.
Fortunately we’re kind of moving past that point until we can start bringing more attention back to the strategic side of the business.
If you go back to the small account portion of the business a lot of times this would be a local school where historically we had a 20-person meeting.
As a result of us not being able to get enough critical mass for the meeting I think what’s mostly happening is they’re simply not having a meeting onsite.
So the opportunity now comes back to us to as we approach this coming January to win back as much of that business as we possibly can as well as bring in new small account business.
All right.
Then just one last one touching on the large employer obviously you said it was up double digits.
But I’m guessing that’s off a pretty small base.
You’ve talked about it a lot.
I guess what gives you the confidence that you’ll succeed with this initiative and what can you share with us that will give us a little bit more confidence? I know you’ve invested obviously a lot of money into that and you talk a lot about the opportunity which we agree is huge.
But I guess we get not a huge amount of color on just the progress that’s being made.
Let me say a couple things on that.
First off I agree that we have not yet been at a position to provide the clarity for the investment community that we’d like to in terms of a lot more specifics around our plans milestones and targets for the large account business.
We’re in the process of actually pulling a lot of that together as we speak.
I think on the coming next couple of calls without being too definitive on timing we’re going to be able to share a lot more specifics in terms of what our two to three-year expectations are for that business.
Because I can understand that without seeing that it’s kind of hard to measure and understand success.
What I would say for right now is that that business was almost negligible three or four years ago.
There were like two or three or four or five accounts that were meaningful.
It’s now about give or take a quarter of our corporate portfolio.
So it’s become material and significant for us.
What I would say is that even though it’s become material and significant even today if you look at the number of accounts we have where we have meaningful business… The way it is tending to work is they tend to be large kind of leading edge wellness HR practice organizations where we’re seeing really high penetration and participation rates sometimes going into the double digits across all employees.
So what we tend to have right now is a small but increasing base of highly engaged accounts.
If you look at the business for as large as it is versus the penetration across all of the large strategic accounts that we might target where we would have and hope to have large penetration I would say that we’re two outs into the first inning.
We’re still incredibility early days in terms of demonstrating meaningful penetration.
So we remain incredibly bullish on this opportunity.
We recognize though that to capture it and again this is what we’ve been saying on past calls is that we have to be able to execute on a number of different dimensions which are relatively new for us as an organization.
Specifically we have to make sure that we have the product right for this kind of client.
We have to make sure that we have the pricing particularly as it relates to the pricing structure of the product.
We have to make sure that we have the right kind of sales organization and sales process.
We have to make sure that we can meet the expectations of these large accounts in terms of data reporting being able to provide national coverage to those types of things.
So we’re working like crazy to make sure that we have all of those capabilities installed so that we can finally get to this point of being able to turn on effectively or turn loose a sales organization to really start operating at full capacity.
To start bringing these companies in because again the incredibly consistent message I’m continuing to get particularly in rooms full of CEO’s is that there is a huge concern over that they’re seeing in terms of benefit costs and healthcare costs and increasing recognition that they’re not going to make progress against it until they can get their employees to more systematically adopt a healthy lifestyle.
So I would agree with you that we’re obviously also very enthusiastic about this opportunity.
We believe that given all of our inherent advantages in terms of being able to deliver clinical outcomes being able to do it cost-effectively being able to do it with a brand their employees want there’s no one else that comes close.
We just need to make sure we have the right B2B toolkit so that we can service the accounts properly and once and for all capture this opportunity more to come on that.
Great thank you.
Just I think one last question on the .com business.
I believe you started investing on the advertising a little more heavily in the second quarter of last year.
Now you’ve fully lapped I guess those incremental investments.
I guess one could make the argument that while you’ve made those incremental investments in the advertising it drove obviously very strong growth on the online business.
You probably even have additional growth because the average customers stick around for eight or nine months.
But I guess what would your response be to the fact that you’re seeing a slowdown already as you lapse some of those advertising investments on the online business?  Yeah.
I think again what I would talk about is specifically to the slowdown I would suggest that the slowdown that we’re seeing in June.
That we’re now forecasting throughout the rest of the year again is significantly a function of where we are relatively speaking on the advertising campaign and where we are into the innovation cycle.
So my inclination would not be to overly extrapolate from what we’re saying we’re going to see over the next six months to extrapolate that beyond for those reason.
That said you’re right last spring we turned on advertising to men for the first time.
This year we’re on air with men winter spring and fall.
We turned on advertising for the first time for .com in CE this January.
Now we’re on January spring and to a certain extent in a couple selective places in fall.
What I would suggest though is that even in some of those places we’ve been on in relatively light weight in not very many weeks of the year.
What we’ve typically done is that as we’re able to work out CPA targets to our satisfaction we look for opportunities to be on air more weeks and to look for opportunities to potentially heavy up GRPs per week.
So as we look at the .com business the way I generally look at is… For example if you take the U.S.
You look at paid weeks for online and paid weeks for meetings.
For the first time online paid weeks are now surpassing the level of paid weeks we have in meetings.
However if I look at the relative price point of Weight Watchers Online at $18.95 a month versus meetings at $42.95 a month I would argue that the paid weeks for online should be actually quite a bit bigger than what we’re currently seeing for the meetings.
What that suggests to me is that we still have a good distance to go until we start to sort of more fully penetrate this opportunity even within our existing countries more mature countries such as the U.S.
All right thank you.
Yep.
Thank you.
Next question is from Peter Wahlstrom from Morningstar Investments.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Absolutely.
Certainly in the last couple months we’ve seen headlines about new diet pills coming to market and FDA approval and so forth.
You’ve talked about what turned out to be fad diets in the past.
Could you talk a little bit about how you might have or you might be baking in those pills coming to market in the second half into your full-year projection? We’re not assuming any impact of diet pills in our forecast for the second half.
For the simple reason that we don’t think that you’re going to see significant deployment of diet pills in the second half.
If you look at what is going to be required for them to get full release to start marketing diet pills the way that they’re looking at scaling up their efforts in terms of reaching out to doctors and the fact that as it currently stands very few health plans actually provide reimbursement for diet pills.
There are a lot of unanswered questions in terms of what their relative price points are going to be how doctors are actually going to feel about prescribing them.
The way I look at these two particular diet pills and I think it’s interesting to look at the FDA language around it in which they suggested that these diet pills could be beneficial to lifestyle change efforts.
To me that’s interesting because it’s not that they’re saying “Take this pill to lose weight and you’ll be more effective if you also change behavior.” They’re saying “Change behavior and this pill might make you more effective in doing so.” In other words lifestyle change remains at the center of what the recommendation is to physicians with respect to even medication.
Now you have two medications out there.
One is lorcaserin in which the clinical outcomes haven’t been particularly stellar compared to - if you look at average weight loss compared to other weight loss drugs that have been out in the market.
But it has the advantage of having relatively modest side effects.
Then you have another in the form of Qnexa which would appear to have somewhat better weight loss outcomes particularly at heavier dosages.
But the issue I think for Qnexa continues to be questions over at those heavier dosages what is the impact of side effects? What does it do in terms of drug adherence and everything else not to mention potential issues down the road? All this is to say our natural wiring as an organization and my natural wiring is to be paranoid about everything.
So obviously I am concerned about any new threat that comes into the market.
But what I would say particularly with respect to this medication is that I take some comfort in the fact that we have seen this before.
I would argue that when Alli came on the market over the counter a couple three years ago honestly that was incredibly terrifying because that was effectively a previously prescribed weight loss drug Xenical that was being sold over the counter that had a giant pharma company in the form of GSK doing massive trade spend behind it.
To the point that they literally were almost having the appearance of buying out drug stores where anybody could basically buy these pills and not bother with talking to their physician and they’re price points that were frankly affordable.
We literally saw no impact on our business.
So we haven’t gotten hit by a diet drug since Fen-Phen.
Again I’m not saying that we’re not going to be impacted in the future but what I am saying is that I fundamentally believe over the short medium and long-term that lifestyle has to remain that the center of meaningful and sustained weight loss as an obesity treatment.
Okay thank you.
Circling back to the retention item given the outlook and kind of weaker consumer sentiment I was wondering if you are seeing maybe a shift in the current population current subscribers from the meeting to the online? As you point out Weight Watchers is a discretionary purchase.
Are they looking to pair back or are those individuals just dropping out entirely? Or could they be changing channels? None of the above.
In fact what we’re saying is that once people are with us we’re seeing good economy bad economy - recently it’s been only bad economy - but once people are with us and once they’re enrolled we’ve seen literally no change in retention behavior.
So in other words we haven’t seen any loss of retention in our meetings product over the past seven months and we look at this longitudinally every month.
So what we’re not seeing is people down-trading from meeting to online at any greater rates than we’d ever seen in the past nor are we seeing any indications of increase in cancelation rates as a result of softening consumer sentiment.
Okay and one last item.
As you see a structural growth in the .com business are you also able to sell the Weight Watchers product? The products that you sell in meetings currently do you have the same success with the take rate for that individual who is a .com subscriber?  We don’t and we think it’s an opportunity going into the future.
You can purchase products via ecommerce is you’re a Weight Watchers Online subscriber.
So you can buy the bars and the pedometers and those types of things.
The penetration of those sales with the online subscribers is a tiny fraction of what we’ve seen with meeting members.
But the .com team has increasingly become focused on trying to identify ways of potentially increasing penetration of ecommerce sales against the subscriber base.
We’ll see how far it gets because I think one of the issues with ecommerce is that unlike when you’re in a meeting room and you’re sort of seeing kind of everything right in front of you I think it’s hard to match the level of sort of impulse purchasing behavior that you’re going to see in a Weight Watchers meeting room.
But nonetheless I would argue that there’s probably more opportunity in driving ecommerce sales against Weight Watchers Online subscriber base.
How meaningful that would be in terms of the overall scope of the financials of the organization is yet to be seen but it is something that’s on our mind.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Just the first question is I know you said the new innovations for 2013 won’t be as big as the ones that were launched last year.
But could it be pretty sizeable relative to some other kind of smaller launches that you’ve done in the past? Or how would you categorize how impactful it could be? Yeah.
It’s always a little hard for us to judge these.
What I would say is that internally we love it.
The response that we’re getting internally including from the people who were actually responsible for delivering it all the early indications are terrific.
It is definitely more significant than the change that we put in this year which I would say was a pretty modest level of innovation.
So I think it’s what we would typically… If I had to ballpark it I would say it’s what I would categorize as what we’ve historically called a major innovation.
So let me kind of provide a little bit of color around my definitions.
I think of innovations in three buckets.
One is platform change.
The next level down is major innovation and the next level down below that is what I would call minor innovation.
I would call PointsPlus 2012 a minor innovation.
I would call PointsPlus itself a platform change platform changes typically being every 10 years.
Major innovations for us have typically been every two to three years.
Momentum was a major innovation.
There were a number of others like it.
I would put this current rate in that category.
At least that’s the expectation we have for it as we’re thinking about our marketing and PR plans as we go into January.
Good thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from John Faucher of J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Two questions first off on the online business you talked about maybe seeing some other trends in online with some competitors.
Are you seeing any shift to some of the free products that are out there with the economic weakness and do you perceive this as being more of a threat if the economic weakness continues? Then secondly it seems as though some of the executional problems this year came from trying to execute a number of different ideas at once most of those in the first quarter.
You’ve still got a lot on your plate at this point so can you talk about sort of managing through lots of different things going on as we head into 2013 to ensure maybe some more consistent execution? Yes.
Both good and fair questions so let me start with the free app.
Of course I’m always concerned about anything that’s being given away.
There certainly have been a lot of distribution of free mobile applications that help people count calories and that’s typically what they’ve been.
Most of the apps I’ve seen they’ve tended to focus on one specific element of the weight loss process.
They tend not to have a complete program built around them.
What I would say is that when we see people signing up for Weight Watchers online what we hear is that they want to do Weight Watchers the program and the software tools are merely a way of helping them do Weight Watchers.
So their purchase decision isn’t so much of comparing our points tracker versus someone else’s calorie tracker.
It’s more a decision of “Do I want to do Weight Watchers because I know other people that have done Weight Watchers? Is it a program that can work for me?” Further to that point what I would argue is that the Weight Watchers program is obviously… I would argue because I’m bias of course.
But it’s a much more comprehensive form of behavior change and tools and resources stretching from.
Not just mobile but also including website across and having a completely full-blown program that is much more comprehensive in nature than what is available on a free app.
Finally what I would suggest is one of the challenges with free apps is that it’s pretty easy to get someone to download something that’s free.
It’s less clear how long someone is going to actually use it once they download it.
So I wouldn’t be surprised if you had a number of people out there that had three or four free weight loss apps on their phone and perhaps weren’t even using any of them.
So what I’m trying to say is that we like any other competitive threat we take this seriously.
Our best way of defending against it is to continue to oppress an aggressive agenda in terms of product and program development and getting people excited about Weight Watchers as a way of helping them achieve their goals in a way that a free application would have a hard time matching.
That’s kind of our starting point in terms of how we address that particular issue.
I would also point out that a lot of the sort of mass of downloads on free apps has been happening even while we were experience… For example it was going on all through 2011 when we were also experiencing a huge amount of sales growth for Weight Watchers Online product.
In terms of the executional issues in sort of managing bandwidth and prioritization exactly for the reason that you’ve cited we’ve been looking for ways of basically increasing management bandwidths in particular by having people more dedicated around specific opportunity areas in ways that we didn’t have at the end of last year.
So in particular if I look at the issues that we’re now dealing with in terms of the transition on health care we did not have an executive dedicated to the healthcare initiative.
We do now as you’ve heard me reference on previous calls Colin Watts who we hired away from Walgreens is now heading up that initiative.
We did not have the benefit of his leadership when we were going through this transition last year.
So in recognition of what you’re describing we’ve tried to make sure that we’ve (inaudible) key gaps in terms of making sure that we’re getting the right kind of focus and prioritization in terms of specific growth opportunities that we’re trying to pursue.
Okay thanks.
Yep.
Thank you.
There are no further questions registered at this time.
I would like to turn the meeting back over to Mr.
Kirchhoff.
Okay thank you for joining us today.
I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
That concludes today’s conference.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Teleconference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today November 5 2012.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Lori Scherwin of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
With us on the call is Dave Kirchhoff President and CEO; and Nick Hotchkin CFO.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to David.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we review Weight Watchers International's performance for the third quarter of fiscal 2012.
Overall 2012 is ramping up very much in line with our prior guidance with Q3 coming in somewhat better than our expectations and Q4 expected to come in somewhat below on the bottom line because of factors we will discuss.
On a constant currency basis Q3 2012 total revenue was up 2.7% over the prior year period with meeting fees down 2.4% and meeting product sales down 8.4% and Internet revenue growing 24%.
Global combined paid weeks were up 9% in Q3 2012 versus the same period last year global meetings paid weeks were down 4.2% in Q3 while global paid weeks for our online product were up 23%.
For Q3 2012 our operating income margin was down 160 basis points versus the prior year period up 30.7% -- to 30.7%.
While gross margin was up 80 basis points versus prior to 59.4% marketing as a percentage of revenue was up 90 basis points primarily reflecting continued investment in driving awareness of our Weight Watchers Online product.
G&amp;A as a percentage of revenue was up 150 basis points versus prior primarily reflecting investments in technology and staff to support our key strategic initiatives such as B2B.
Q3 2012 EPS was $1.20 compared to $1.09 for the same period in 2011 benefiting from our share repurchases earlier this year.
We experienced about $0.04 of unfavorable ForEx impact from the third quarter this year versus prior.
Before Nick reviews our financial results in greater detail I'd like to provide additional context on our Q3 performance.
Our results on our meetings business remained under pressure in our North American and U.K.
markets and were more bouyant in our Continental European market.
As expected Q3 NACO attendances as a percentage were down high single digits versus prior while paid weeks as a percentage performed somewhat better at low single-digit declines versus prior.
As we noted on our last call we're now at the tail end of our 2-year innovation cycle and we've been running our current marketing campaign for over 2.5 years.
On the positive side our annual brand-tracking measures during the third quarter showed continued overall strengthening of the Weight Watchers brand in key measures such as relevance effectiveness and modernity.
However right now we're lacking news in either program or marketing to drive the kind of cut-through necessary for the current economic environment particularly in the midst of an all-encompassing political campaign season.
As I will discuss later we plan to change this as we enter January 2013.
The U.K.
meetings results were more of a disappointment for us in Q3 but not entirely unexpected.
The combination of a very difficult macroeconomic context in that country with a lack of program news and a much less effective 2012 marketing campaign has put pressure on this business all year long.
Again this changes as we enter 2013.
Consistent with our expectations our Continental European meetings business performed quite well in the third quarter particularly given the very difficult economic conditions across Europe.
Having attendance growth in positive mid-single digits and paid weeks growth in double digits reflects the impact that program news and fresh marketing can have to help offset the effects of a retrenching consumer economy.
Finally our weightwatchers.com business has continued in Q3 to deliver very solid double-digit revenue and volume growth versus the same period in 2011 benefiting from a strong entering active subscriber base and continued surging growth in our CE and Canadian Internet businesses.
U.S.
online recruitments were under more pressure in Q3 which was driven by the same factors that are affecting the NACO meetings business.
As well the weightwatchers.com U.K.
results have been weak for most of the year again a reflection of a marketing campaign that's not cutting through as well as the effect of being in a off-cycle innovation year.
Like the meetings business the Weight Watchers Online business will have the benefit of a fully refreshed marketing campaigns along with the new program launch as we enter January 2013.
I'd now like to turn the discussion over to Nick who will review our financial and volume results in greater detail.
Thanks Dave and good afternoon everyone.
I've had a great first 2 months at Weight Watchers.
And I'm excited to be with an organization that has such an important mission as well as a terrific business model.
Furthermore my early days have confirmed my going-in belief that this company has a large portfolio of future growth opportunities.
On to the numbers.
Picking up where Dave left off let me start with weightwatchers.com.
Third quarter Internet revenues rose 22% versus the prior year period or 24% on a constant currency basis.
Paid weeks grew 23% in Q3 with double-digit growth in the U.S.
and even stronger growth in Continental Europe and Canada.
As we expected overall global recruitments in Q3 were slightly positive driven by strength in Continental Europe and Canada partially offset by softness elsewhere particularly in the U.K.
Among other factors U.S.
recruitments were impacted in Q3 from lapping last year's buy-one-get-one and other promotions that we did not repeat this year.
This negatively impacted U.S.
recruitment volume but we benefited from higher price realization versus the same period in 2011.
Looking forward we remain comfortable with our prior guidance of 15% to 20% second-half growth in paid weeks yielding full year growth of 25% to 30% for weightwatchers.com.
On to the meetings business starting with North America.
Total NACO revenue in Q3 2012 was down 3.3% versus the same period in fiscal 2011.
This represents moderation versus the 6.4% decline we saw in the second quarter versus prior and the 9% decline in the first quarter versus prior.
NACO Q3 2012 paid weeks declined 3.6% while attendance declined 9.4% versus the prior year period.
And meeting product sales declined 6.6% versus Q3 2011 due to lower attendance versus the prior year quarter partially offset by an increase in product sales per attendance which grew 3.1% versus prior.
Similar to weightwatchers.com Q3 volumes in NACO were negatively impacted by lapping a BOGO and another promotion that we did not repeat this year.
This negatively affected recruitment but as with weightwatchers.com benefited revenue per paid week versus prior.
Similar to the first half part of the weakness in NACO stemmed from the regional At Work issue that we have discussed throughout the year.
Importantly while the regional At Work business was still down considerably versus Q3 2011 the business performed in line with our expectations and has stabilized leaving us well situated for the 2013 selling season which begins this month.
Also importantly the strategic national accounts part of the business continues to perform very well.
And while still a small part of the overall B2B business it is growing by double digits.
Consistent with our previous guidance we expect the full year negative impact to operating income associated with the At Work issue to be about $19 million.
While Q3 showed a moderation in the negative trends NACO has experienced this year we note that the consumer backdrop has remained muted.
In addition like many other businesses we were directly affected by Hurricane Sandy last week with significant drops in enrollment levels and attendances throughout the Northeast.
While we quickly restored normal business operations across most of this critical region we do expect certain key markets such as New Jersey and Long Island both high-penetration markets for us to continue to be adversely affected through the next few weeks.
It is difficult to precisely estimate the impact of the hurricane but we would anticipate a potential impact of 1.5% to 2% on attendances and paid weeks in the fourth quarter.
For the fourth quarter while we continue to expect high single-digit declines in paid weeks we now expect low double-digit declines in attendances versus the same period in 2011.
Towards the end of the quarter we acquired our first franchise in some time the Southeastern Ontario region in Canada for $17 million.
Since the quarter end we also purchased an additional franchise covering part of the Adirondacks in New York and Vermont.
These franchises are relatively small and will have de minimis impact on financial results for fiscal 2012.
As a reminder franchise acquisitions have always been an opportunistic use of our free cash flow as they make strategic and financial sense.
Owning more of the North American meeting system gives us greater control of the brand lets us cut back redundant back-office spend and enables us to better leverage both national marketing and the field infrastructure.
For these reasons among others franchise acquisitions tend to be accretive in the first full year following purchase.
Next the U.K.
meetings business.
The business continued to witness volume and revenue declines versus prior and that accelerating rates as compares to the first half of the year and our prior expectations.
Third quarter paid weeks declined 12.5% versus the prior year period and attendances were down 17.5% versus prior.
We expect further pressure in Q4 with volume down in the 20% range versus prior.
Our 2012 marketing approach clearly did not meet our expectations and we are looking forward to 2013 when the U.K.
will be launching a fresh new approach which is more in line with the playbook we have employed in the U.S.
and Continental Europe.
We look forward to upcoming calls when we can share more details.
Finally the Continental Europe meetings business.
Q3 2012 paid weeks grew 12.1% versus prior and attendances were up 4.9% versus prior with France and Germany leading the way on the heels of the ProPoints 2.0 innovation and ad campaigns rolled out earlier this year.
We expect continued growth in Continental Europe in Q4 albeit at slower rates than in Q3.
Now to review some key financial metrics for the quarter.
Our other revenues which includes franchise commissions and licensing revenue declined 8.1% on a constant currency basis versus the same period last year.
In Q3 gross margin rose 80 basis points to 59.4% driven by a mix shift in revenues with growth in the weightwatchers.com business offset by weakness in the meetings business.
Pressure in the meetings business remains a function of softer volumes as well as incremental expense associated with the retail upgrade onetime expenses associated with a call center upgrade and contraction in in-meeting product sales margin due primarily to lower sales of enrollment products.
For the full year we now expect gross margin expansion of about 100 basis points versus prior as compared to our earlier expectation of 100 to 150 basis points versus 2011.
This is due to deceleration in fourth quarter gross margin leverage driven by both higher costs and lower volumes.
Meetings pricing as measured by lecture income per paid week was up about 2% on a constant currency basis or about flat on a reported basis.
This had a greater impact in Q3 versus earlier in fiscal 2012 as we start to realize more benefits from the price increases taken last year particularly in NACO and the U.S.
weightwatchers.com business.
We'd note that about 60% of active NACO members are now in the higher price and we'd expect more price realization as we look forward towards 2013.
Marketing spend was up in Q3 in support of our new initiatives namely in the weightwatchers.com business in Continental Europe where we started TV for the first time this year.
Marketing rose 8.9% versus prior on a constant currency basis and was up 90 basis points as a percent of sales.
As expected this was less of an increase than we saw in the first half of 2012.
But it was also less than we thought for the quarter itself largely due to timing which shifted roughly $4 million of marketing expense from the third quarter into the fourth quarter.
As such despite the lower-than-expected Q3 marketing expense we continue to expect marketing to be up 300 basis points year-over-year for fiscal 2012.
G&amp;A expense as a percent of revenue rose in Q3 2012 versus prior by 150 basis points to 13.5% as we continue to invest in our growth initiatives including B2B technology and customer relationship management.
There were also costs this quarter related to our headquarters office move next year which we previously expected to incur in Q4.
For the full year we still expect G&amp;A expense to be up about 100 basis points versus prior.
As a result of the factors I've just discussed our total company Q3 operating income declined 4.6% or 2.2% on a constant currency basis with reported OI margin down 160 basis points versus the prior year period to 30.7%.
In the quarter foreign currency negatively impacted our total company revenue by approximately 2.1% operating income by approximately 2.3% and net income by approximately 2.5% versus the prior year period resulting in a roughly negative $0.04 impact to fully diluted EPS.
We have no change in our prior expectations regarding share count with about 56 million shares outstanding on average in the second half leading to a full year average count of approximately 61 million shares driven by the tender and the related share repurchase we executed earlier this year.
We also continue to expect a tax rate of 38.5% for the full year.
Further we continue to expect full year 2012 interest expense to be in the range of $85 million inclusive of $3.5 million of incremental amortization of fees related to the share repurchase transaction.
We ended the quarter with $2.4 billion of debt and $2.3 billion of net debt.
Our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 4.3x at the end of the third quarter and we expect to finish the year at roughly 4.4x consistent with prior guidance.
In Q3 we generated $121 million cash flow from operations.
The main uses of cash included $79 million debt reduction; $16 million capital expenditure including software capitalization; $17 million for the Canadian acquisition; and $10 million in dividend payments to our shareholders.
Year-to-date cash flow from operations remained strong at $301 million.
Our overall priorities for cash flow remain unchanged: invest in our growth initiatives reduce our debt levels return cash to shareholders through our quarterly dividend and opportunistically execute franchise acquisitions.
I'll now turn this back to Dave for some concluding remarks on the outlook and our strategic priorities.
Thanks Nick.
We're now in the process of wrapping 2012 a year that has been difficult from a financial and operating perspective but also a year that has been very important in making critical progress against our long-term strategic plan.
We expect to enter 2013 with a much stronger game plan than was the case in 2012 which includes the following 5 key highlights.
One a new global program innovation.
Our global and regional program development teams have been working intensely throughout the year to ready our next new major program innovation.
We will be able to provide greater details and context when we begin introducing the program innovation to our current meetings members and online subscribers in early December.
Our focus when we launched PointsPlus and ProPoints 2 years ago was to create a much stronger and more future-facing nutritional platform for our members that reflected many of the advancements in nutritional science that had occurred over the previous 12 years.
Given the core role that POINTS and tracking play in the day to day of our members' lives it was not surprising that this program news had particularly significant effect on both media and member buzz.
Our new innovation launch for 2013 continues our efforts to fully revamp and expand our program platform now with a much larger focus on behavior change techniques.
While we do not expect this new innovation to have the same kind of enrollment impact as the 2011 PointsPlus launch we do see it as a far more significant enhancement than what we did in January 2012.
And we view it as a critical step in the ongoing evolution of how we help our members not only to lose the weight but also to create a real path to keep the weight off.
Two refresh the new marketing campaigns.
We will complement our program innovation launches with new and fully refreshed marketing campaigns across our major markets.
The U.S.
and U.K.
will be launching completely new campaigns to build upon everything that worked in the previous NACO campaign.
Our CE markets will take their successful current campaigns and build upon them with the range of new creative treatments new celebrities and other significant improvements.
Over the past 3 years we have aggressively invested to build our brand and to drive awareness of our Weight Watchers Online product.
More recently we have focused on gaining a stronger analytical understanding of which marketing media is performing for us and which is less optimal.
With these insights we will enter 2013 with a more optimized advertising media mix in both TV and digital which will allow us to continue to drive customer acquisition but at a lower overall level of spend.
Three refresh U.S.
retail infrastructure.
As of the end of October we now have converted approximately 65% of the total system and we remain on track to be about 80% through our retail upgrade for North America by December 31.
We expect this initiative to be effectively 100% completed by the end of 2013.
Four revitalize B2B business.
All of the issues that created the pressure on our regional small account business are now behind us.
We will be entering 2013 with a segmented offering that recognizes the crucial differences and needs between our regional small account and our national strategic account businesses.
In the small account business we have been transitioning new accounts back to the familiar 13- and 17-week series offerings and away from Monthly Pass.
In the strategic account business the focus will remain on offering Monthly Pass and Weight Watchers Online.
Throughout the year the new B2B management team has also been completely revamping the sales and operations of this business and we will enter 2013 with a much stronger and more consistent selling capability.
With the remediation efforts of the small account business behind us we can also focus more of our attention to building the strategic accounts business which had a great year despite the many distractions for the team.
Five continued investment in our weightwatchers.com business.
Much of 2012 has been focused on rolling out a full tool kit of web and mobile apps across our major geographies as the weightwatchers.com business outside the U.S.
has become increasingly important to us both from a top line and bottom line perspective.
As well the team has been working hard to raise [ph] the Weight Watchers Online product to have full functionality to support the new program launch which will create even greater differentiation from the much narrower competitive applications currently available in either web or mobile platforms.
The unique selling proposition of the online product is that it builds upon the proven and trusted Weight Watchers brand and program.
It makes them more engaging through useful tools and technology.
We will look to aggressively press that advantage in the marketplace next year.
As is typical for this time of year we're still in our budgeting process and we will not be in a position to provide earnings guidance for 2013 until we release our Q4 results in February.
That said I would like to provide some key thoughts and considerations for next year.
One starting customer base.
We expect our meetings business membership base to enter 2013 about 10% smaller than was the case when we entered fiscal 2012.
For context we would need to drive roughly 10% enrollment growth for the year a substantial turnaround from the trends we experienced in 2012 for us to get to flat versus prior on meetings paid weeks for the full year 2013.
On the positive side we expect to benefit by entering 2013 with an online subscriber base that is about 15% larger than was the case last year.
Two new programming campaigns versus macro economy and competition.
We're not anticipating any tailwinds from the consumer economy in North America for 2013 and we expect conditions in Europe and the U.K.
to be the same or worse as 2012.
As well we recognize that in an environment where there is pressure and consumer discretionary spend that the proliferation of so-called free apps has the potential to create additional pressure on our ability to recruit new people.
Our plan is to overcome these challenges with major program improvements as well as new marketing campaigns that allow us to rise above the clutter and noise and to create further differentiation in our offerings versus other alternatives.
Three efficiency versus investments.
As noted we expect to see significant improvements in our marketing efficiency in 2013 versus 2012.
This will be somewhat offset by the impact of higher costs resulting from an initiatives such as B2B as well as the depreciation and amortization associated with our retail rollout in systems investments among other factors.
Our B2B investments will be focused on people and technology as we continue to build this platform.
Given macro health trends and the need for prevention the long-term context for Weight Watchers is only going to get stronger.
Clinical evidence continues to pile up which shows over and over the inherent strength of Weight Watchers to deliver medically significant weight loss cost effectively and at scale.
The most recent example of this was featured in the Journal of Obesity in which in an NIH-funded study researchers were surprised to discover that Weight Watchers was at least as good if not better than the significantly more expensive behavior modification program delivered in an academic clinical setting previously considered the gold standard of lifestyle-based weight-loss treatments.
This adds to the high-profile research featured last year in The Lancet and British Medical Journal.
All of  these studies showed the same underlying driver of our success.
We are unmatched in our ability to keep customers engaged in a behavior-change process for long periods of time.
Weight loss effectiveness is purely a function of combining a sustainable program with continued engagement so that new habits and patterns have time to set in.
Nobody comes close to us in accomplishing this.
We will be even better at this next year when we further integrate our new state-of-the-art program with a combination of group support website activity monitors apps and other tools to help people stay actively engaged and on track.
We believe that this comprehensive value proposition gives us a decisive advantage over any competitive offering.
We will further leverage these advantages in both B2C and B2B context.
Guidance.
Overall our 2012 outlook is essentially in line with our expectations though with some puts and takes across the quarters.
Based on the specifics of our outlook that Nick discussed we're narrowing our guidance for 2012 full year EPS to between $4.00 and $4.10 versus a range of $4.00 to $4.20 previously provided.
This range includes about $0.05 from incremental investment costs not included in previous guidance as well as $0.02 to $0.03 of projected negative impact from Hurricane Sandy.
The actions that make up these incremental $0.05 include: one the acceleration of the transition to a new call center that will be up and running with improved customer service capability ahead of our program innovation; and two our decision to air a different combination of ads at the tail end of Q4 versus our original plan which will result in a pull-forward of certain advertising production costs into 2012.
Finally I want to mention that we're planning on holding an Investors Day in the first half of next year where we will be focusing on our long-term strategic plans and milestones.
At this time operator I would like to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Glen Santangelo from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David I just wanted to talk you about the situation in the U.K.
I mean clearly it continues to be a challenge for the company.
And I guess I'm kind of curious to get your perspective.
What do you think you can do to sort of correct the situation there? Obviously you've had a less than effective marketing campaign.
But when you look at Continental Europe it continues to do well particularly on a growth perspective.
And I'm -- as I think about those economic climates as being relatively similar which could be a false assumption I'm just kind of curious as to why the problems are so centric in the U.K Yes.
We would actually have the same point of view in terms of comparability of macroeconomic context between the U.K.
and CE.
Really the difference you're seeing is that in the case of CE they're executing much more consistently against the marketing playbook.
And the gap is pretty significant right now versus what we have currently in the U.K.
And furthermore they did a better job I think of pushing out program news.
And the program news was relatively more significant for them.
Whereas the U.K.
did not have as nearly a significant program news in 2012.
And I think the significance for that is something that we've seen pretty consistently during this difficult economic climate is that across our markets when we have compelling advertising and news program and service news we're able to kind of break free of the macroeconomic context consumer confidence trends et cetera and drive results that sort of -- that separate.
Whereas when we're relatively more quiet in terms of the impact that our marketing programs are happening as well as the lack of program news we find that we end up getting pulled down by the economy almost at disproportionate rate.
I think the implication for that is a few fold.
First off for me what it suggests is that from here on out our operating assumption needs to be that every single year across our major markets we need meaningful program news or meaningful news in either program technology and/or service.
The second thing it means is that we have to execute very consistently against our marketing playbook in each one of our major countries.
And whatever we have out there has to feel fresh and sharp to drive people's imagination inspiration everything else.
We didn't have that in the U.K.
You see the impact on the business.
We did have it in CE.
You see the impact on that business.
Research Division</strong> If I can just ask one follow-up.
I did want to talk to you about the investment costs in Q4.
It sounds like you're spending $0.05 in Q4.
And I think if I heard you just correctly in your closing remarks there's going to be a new call center and the decision to run some new TV ads I guess in December.
And so you're pulling some costs forward.
Were is that call center? Is it in the U.S.
and -- or is it in Europe? And then secondly as you think about sort of these new sort of marketing campaigns and product rollouts for Jan 1 should we expect to see those over the next couple of weeks? And any elaboration on what we should expect would be helpful.
Absolutely.
The call center that I referenced is specifically in the U.S.
And it represents a change of -- we outsource our call center and we're changing over call center vendors to someone with a capability set that we think is going to be much more robust for us going forward across both our B2C and B2B businesses.
So it was an important step for us to take but it had a series of onetime costs associated with the transition to the tune of about $3 million in which -- we made the decision to try to pull that into 2012 so that we'd be up and running with it as we entered the January weight-loss season.
So that's really a cost that otherwise would have been borne in 2013.
We made the decision to pull it into 2012.
On the advertising what you typically see with us -- well first off the program launches as you might have -- as you heard me reference we're going to be entering what we referred to as a soft-launch phase in the beginning of December in most of our major markets.
And that's where we have a chance to share it with the people that are still attending our meetings during the relatively slow holiday season.
It gives our service providers a chance to get more comfortable delivering the new program in a live context if you will so that they can get their sea legs as we enter into the January campaign where things tend to get a little bit crazy.
So that's going to be happening in the beginning of December.
In terms of the advertising most of those spots or virtually all those spots will be happening after Christmas.
However depending on the lineup of spots we choose to use the second we make a decision to air it for even just one day in 2012 we have to pick up all of that production cost.
So what that really does is it's pulling forward advertising production costs that we had thought was going to end up in 2013 and it's pulling it into 2012.
And so really in terms of the overall economics of the business it's -- none of these things are meaningful.
It's really timing shifts between Q1 '13 versus Q4 '12.
The next question is from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the 10% enrollment growth that you need to go positive in meetings right? I guess in a year that -- like understanding I guess enrollments this year in January were better than they were every year but '11.
That said -- when you have Jessica Simpson lined up and new product news that you're saying is fundamentally different maybe not the buzz why is 10% enrollment growth such a difficult bogey to match? Well here's the context I would put it in is that we did much better than that for the vast majority of 2011 versus '10.
So to your point it's not as though we've never seen it before.
However I mean I think that if we're just trying to provide context it's coming across a year that's relatively softer.
I'm not in a position right now obviously to speculate on exactly where we think our volume is going to be as we go into next year other than to just try to temper and at least give some context for people to think about as they think about trying to model our business for next year what would be required for us to hit different milestones from a volume perspective.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I'm trying to figure out -- though so you're saying there's no message in that.
You're just providing context like you really have no idea whether you can do that 10% or not.
Yes no.
To your point we're not actually -- there's no sort of hidden message where we're trying to guide people toward any sort of volume growth assumptions next year.
What we thought would be helpful is that for those folks that were modeling is to just give them a sense of what would be effectively to break even if you will for -- that we would have to achieve in other words to hit flat paid weeks of 2013 versus '12 given that we're going to be starting the year at 10% lower.
And then from that you can do your own extrapolation in terms of what you think is reasonable and use that to basically then drive into the amount of paid weeks for volume growth you might expect to see for us next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in putting context around this product launch right? I mean so you're -- I guess if I hear what you're saying you don't expect it to have the buzz obviously that a PointsPlus did.
But you're saying it's a fundamental modification.
I know you're not in a position to talk details around it.
But I guess why -- can you talk a little bit about the nature of why it wouldn't generate buzz like a PointsPlus would have? Well I think the thing about PointsPlus is that it was really a -- in kind of the world of Weight Watchers and Weight Watchers' members changing the formula is a really big deal.
And it tends to create a lot of commotion mostly positive some frustration because people get frustrated about having to change programs.
But in general it's creating an enormous amount of conversation to the extent that it was apparently worthy of Page 1 coverage in The New York Times.
I love love love this new program that we're going to be launching.
I think it's hugely important to us.
I think it's a really critical step for us to take as an organization.
But I don't expect it to have that sort of same buzz-worthiness that a "once every 10- to 12-year change" in the POINTS formula will have.
That's based mostly on intuition.
But I think that -- what I would point out is that when we launched PointsPlus we didn't launch it because we thought it was going to blow the doors off in terms of buzz and January enrollments and all these types of things.
We did it because we felt that it was the right thing to do because it was a better nutritional platform for us going forward.
Our new program that we're going to launch we're doing it not because we think it's going to generate huge buzz or enrollments in January but rather because we feel that it is a better platform for helping people not just lose weight but keep it off.
Therefore it's the right thing to do.
Now it's up to us to try to find ways of making as much noise around that as possible.
The messaging for it I think is just -- it's inherently more nuanced than the messaging of "Oh my gosh they changed their POINTS formula." So that's why I would temper a little bit.
But what I would say is to me it is a much more significant change versus what we did in 2012.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
I appreciate the color.
And I guess just on marketing it sounds like -- I mean you're using the word efficiency for '13.
I mean does that mean -- I mean is marketing going to come down in 2013 on a preliminary basis? Yes.
That's pretty much what we said.
So you weren't imagining that.
But here -- let me put a little bit more context around that.
I think the thing is that if you look at where we spend money it is primarily in television and digital.
And within digital you have banner campaigns you've got search you've got affiliate programs you've got eCRM you've got social media you have all these things.
And effectively what -- the trick is in thinking about direct-response marketing and optimizing costs per acquisition effectively what the marketers have to try to do is come up with an attribution model if you will where they give credit to different placements for driving customer acquisitions enrollments online subscriptions those types of things.
We've been in the market in a very big way and in -- and particularly over the past 2 years what we have now been able to do with the data set that we've accumulated we're able to look backwards do a lot of statistical and other types of analysis to come to some judgments on which aspects of those overall programs digital and television that we think are delivering the best bang for the buck and which do we think are going to be less efficient and basically rejigger the mix if you will so that we can drive toward more efficient CPAs which would allow us to continue driving volume in the business but doing it at a lower-level of spend.
And our next question is from Brian Wang of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on some of the last points that were made.
Just on the 10% enrollment growth necessary next year that you discussed.
Can you just talk a little bit about -- obviously the small accounts business was down a lot especially in the beginning of the year last year.
Wouldn't that at least partially make up for -- if you could get -- obviously under the assumption you get a lot of that back wouldn't that make up for a lot of the -- that 10% growth necessary? Well I mean I think Brian what you're obviously going to spend some time going through at the benefit of this call and this transcript is you'll be going through some of your own modeling efforts in trying to piece together some of those data pieces.
Certainly as you heard me reference having the -- a lot of the execution issues from the small accounts business behind us gives us an opportunity to start off 2013 in a much better place.
I think when you model out and look at sort of the entirety of what 10% means across the entire NACO business you would probably come to the conclusion that fixing what we did in the At Work business just on its own would not be nearly enough to make up for what you'd have to do to get to that 10% enrollment growth.
Given that historically -- one way to maybe dimensionalize it is that historically the At Work business has been about 12% of our North American attendances this year.
Because the issue is it's down to closer to say 10%.
So sort of reverting that back you can imagine how that doesn't get you nearly all the way there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And then just on the new call center obviously you said you pulled it forward into 4Q.
Do you have just the timing I guess on the potential opening for that just to -- I'm assuming you built in a cushion -- a little bit of a cushion to make sure that it's up and running and fully functional before obviously you hit the most important time of the year.
Yes.
I mean there's a really robust plan in place.
Don't make me go through all the details of it.
But there's a really robust plan in place in the transition across the 2 vendors to make sure that we handle that in a seamless way.
But we're very tuned into the fact that whatever happens we need to be bulletproof as we go into January 1.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just one final one on the -- obviously you made -- there's a couple of small franchise acquisitions this I guess this quarter and even since the last quarter.
Does that mean -- I mean I think it's been a few years since you made one prior to that.
Is that -- is it something that you find more attractive? I know a lot of the international franchise licenses are still out there.
Have you looked at using some of the cash flow for that? Hey look.
Thanks Brian.
It's Nick.
Great question.
Look -- we found franchise acquisitions consistently attractive from a strategic and a financial standpoint.
The field infrastructure our synergies for example the back-office synergies and G&amp;A savings too all make them accretive in the first full year of operations.
So it's an opportunistic play for us.
And in terms of other opportunities going forward of course it depends more on franchisee's willingness to sell than anything else.
And that tends to be impacted as much by family -- financial planning than anything else.
So our folks potentially more interested in selling in a year like '12 versus a banner year at '11 maybe.
But bottom line we like them.
We'll continue to pursue them opportunistically.
The next question is from Bob Craig Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David are you at all concerned that the early launch using Jessica Simpson stole any thunder from early next year's marketing campaigns? No.
I mean one of the things when you work with the Jessica who by the way is doing great is that whether we put her on advertising or not she's in the public eye.
So -- and I think the good news for us is that she's having good success.
And so right now the public eye is sort of favorable.
But it's -- she is -- given how high profile she is I think there's only so much we can do on that front.
But she's been doing great on the program.
We're so thrilled with the success that she's having.
We think that there's a great partnership to be had that we're going to be actively pursuing and building with her as well as continuing to work with other folks such as Jennifer Hudson Charles Barkley et cetera.
So I think from our point of view we're really happy with the amount of material that we have to work going into our 2013 campaigns.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
David I think in the past you've mentioned some internal gating or limiting factors in building the large corporate business things like the data mining capability et cetera.
Where do you stand in that regard now? We're continuing to make great progress against it.
In understanding and appreciating the importance of that question this was one of the reasons why we felt that it would be helpful and useful for us to have a good solid Investor Day in the first half of next year.
Because that would really allow us the chance to kind of lay out the B2B and healthcare strategy by way of example in kind of all of its glory including all the key milestones and everything else in terms of what needs to be in place when how much investment do we think it's going to need to get there and what does success ultimately look like as well as providing something that I think the investment community has been looking for for a long time which is a long-term perspective on what to look for from this company from a top and bottom line growth perspective.
So let me defer most of the specifics of it to that.
And above and beyond that what I would say is that we've been making great progress this year in terms of developing the underlying customer database infrastructure putting on the CRM tools business intelligence everything else.
Really kind of the next frontier for us in terms of data mining is going to be pushing out data capture into our At Work meetings and into what we call our traveler meetings which would be Weight Watchers meetings that are happening in say church synagogue community center and things like that.
We're already getting real-time data pulled in from our Weight Watchers centers.
Once we have enough critical mass and data being brought in across it really does significantly enhance our ability of then providing real-time reporting back to our corporate clients.
So we're making good progress against that and it's work that's obviously going to be taking us well into 2013.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Last one for me.
And any early read on investment spending levels in 2013? What I'm really try to get to is the -- there's the swing factor.
I think in the last call you mentioned $39 million in 2012 versus $20 million in '11.
Any gauge on 2013 at this point? I think and then Nick could give me a backup on this just to provide context which is a lot -- we've been doing a lot of CapEx this year with the retail rollout.
So that's a been a fair bit of capital that we've been deploying going from 20% to probably by the end of this year 80% complete with the North American retail network.
Therefore going from 80% to 100% would presumably be less.
The flip side is that we're going to be ramping up a little bit investment behind technology so that's the data capture and all that kind of stuff.
And so there's going to be some puts and takes.
But I think what you're seeing is that we had a slug of CapEx that was associated with putting in ERP doing a corporate-wide Oracle initiative over a series of years that's largely now behind us.
2011 and '12 became significantly driven by -- capital requirement became driven by our efforts around the retail rollout then that starts to wind down.
And then going forward the capital expenditure becomes much more focused around technology and data capture.
Yes.
Look Dave I think that's very very fair in terms of CapEx the uptick this year driven by the items Dave mentioned.
Going forward assumption right now obviously pending the finalization of our plan I wouldn't expect CapEx to be markedly different next year.
Less spend on retail transformation but of course we've got the buildout of our new headquarters coming into CapEx too.
In terms of the initiative spend yes look we've previously talked about $39 million and $20 million incremental for this year.
Given the call center expenditure that's more like $42 million total and $23 million incremental versus '11 for this year.
And we'll be finalizing the 2013 plan in the next couple of months.
The next question is from Peter Wahlstrom of Morningstar Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Now that you've cycled through last September's price increase for online in the U.S.
and roughly about 60% of people are on the new pricing strategy have you identified any pushback from former subscribers who were looking to rejoin? And then maybe taking a step back assuming that that message isn't overly received as a negative is there a case against doing that raising prices again in 2013 particularly as you're adding new features to online? So just a couple of points of clarification.
First off Monthly Pass is at about 60%.
And that price increase went in at the beginning of December last year.
The Weight Watchers Online price increase went in closer to say September of last year if memory serves.
So Weight Watchers Online is now close to 70% of the customer base in the U.S which is at the higher price point versus say 60% for Monthly Pass.
So that's just more housekeeping if you will.
I think the important thing from our point of view is that despite the price increases we haven't seen any negative impact on retention at all which is where we would've expected to see some of the blowback if there was going to be blowback.
So that leads us to believe that it's not likely an issue.
And then particularly with Weight Watchers Online going from $17.95 to $18.95 I'm not sure that the psychology around that would be that compelling.
In some respects I think it was kind of a bigger deal for us to go from $39.95 to $42.95 on the meetings side even though it's still less than $10 a week and we still advertise it that way.
But I think what happens when you do -- and in the case of Monthly Pass we hadn't touched pricing since 2006.
So it's almost 6 years so it was time.
In the case of Weight Watchers Online we've added great functionality and everything else.
We've been able to raise price successfully a number of times over the past.
But right now we certainly haven't announced any plans or any indications of touching pricing in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a quick follow-up obviously you've done quite well in the online space.
Have you also continued to see momentum in signing up men.
I know that from what I recall roughly 15% of your new sign-ups were from men.
You're seeing still continued improvement in this population? What's been encouraging for us this year is that -- to your point historically men for example in Weight Watchers Online were about 8% to 9% of total mix.
This year it has been in the low mid-teens throughout the majority of this year.
What's been encouraging is that even when we've gone off air and some time after being off air with the men's campaign is that we've seen that percentage of mix hold up pretty nicely.
And so I don't have any doubt that we've made great progress this year in terms of materially shifting the male consumers' perception that Weight Watchers has a viable option for them.
And so from our point of view that the efforts that we've placed around advertising to men over the past 18 months I would qualify as being highly successful in terms of shifting the brand.
The next question is from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions here.
The first is it seems as though there was a slight change in tone in terms of your discussion of the free app issue.
Is this something where you've seen something going on in the market where you've got a heightened level of concern here? And then the second is as we look at the marketing spending discussion I'm assuming -- it sounds like marketing is going to be down on a dollar basis which would obviously put it down as a percentage of sales so obviously a pretty nice benefit from an operating leverage standpoint.
Is there anything that you can see now that's going to work in the other direction something that's going to put a little bit of negative pressure in terms of your operating leverage for next year? So on the first question on apps -- I mean part of the reason I wanted to proactively bring it up was just because it's been kind of a constant part of conversation and dialogue with the investment community.
And I wanted to basically be responsive to it.
I mean here's my take on apps is that they have obviously been out there for some period of time.
Lots of people are downloading free apps.
They're kind of all over the place.
There's lots of companies developing free apps.
It's like 10 guys and a box of pizza and you have a free app.
What I've seen and I've spent a lot of time sort of like looking closely at them going out to technology conferences where I've met the people that are running these companies nice guys hard workers.
I think there's a couple of issues.
First off there's really not a business model to be found among any of these companies which I think begs the question of sustainability over the long term.
Secondly frankly the bigger issue that I see with free apps is an issue that has been kind of vexing across the apps space within the broader healthcare area was that you'll hear a lot of people in healthcare kind of complaining about sort of underneath their breath sometimes and sometimes not underneath their breath which is people download an app and use it for 2 weeks and then put it away.
And what -- the problem that I see with apps is that they are effectively calorie counters and they're applications that make counting calories a little bit easier.
But they're not based on an actual program.
They're not based on a lot of behavior mod science.
There's really not that much there.
And I believe that therefore from our point of view we take every competitive challenge seriously.
But from our point of view I think given what we have going for us and going into next year we believe that we're going to have a value proposition that is nowhere even close to being in the same place as a lot of these applications which are much more narrowly defined.
But we haven't seen anything different this month versus what we saw 6 months ago to answer your question directly.
The second question in terms of puts and takes is you probably heard me reference during my call while the attention is on the cost savings in terms of getting better operating leverage by having a more efficient marketing mix we are cognizant of the fact that at the same time on the G&amp;A line you're going to see more D&amp;A flowing through both G&amp;A and gross margin actually related to the retail rollout as well as amortization of investments we've made in systems with customer data capture and these types of things.
And then finally we've been building up this -- effectively this business unit -- this B2B business unit which is sales folks operations folks people like that we're effectively incubating it within our organization.
And so it has all the costs associated with it.
So effectively from an operating leverage trade-off we're trading off improved efficiencies on marketing versus investments which show up a little bit in gross margin and show up more in G&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up from Chris Ferrara of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask about the -- so the paid weeks per attendee continue to climb like they're running up at a descent clip kind of mid-high single digits I guess.
Does that suggest that I mean are you seeing increased penetration of Monthly Pass? And why would the paid weeks per attendee continue to be climbing right now in North America and in most places actually? Particularly if you look at the last quarter in Q3 I think there's just a couple of things I'd call out.
I mean yes Monthly Pass penetration is doing well.
The second thing I'd call out is that due to some vagaries of the shift in the At Work business from series to Monthly Pass that has changed some of the mathematical dynamics between attendance and paid weeks levels in a way that doesn't suggest any kind of significant underlying business dynamics.
But it's more just a function of the math of how attendances work versus paid weeks depending on the product that you're deploying.
And then secondly I think that you can reasonably infer if you had a relatively softer enrollment period so for example when we chose not to run the BOGO promotion and a couple of other things to the extent that that created any kind of downward pressure on enrollments for NACO during that campaign period what that means is that effectively your membership base at that point in time is relatively "older" i.e.
people further into the tenure of their membership.
And those types of vagaries can result in your periodic separations between attendances and paid weeks.
But I think most importantly if you look at the propensity of someone to attend a meeting at a comparable tenure so say for example someone who's in their second month of Monthly Pass are they more or less likely to attend a meeting today than was the case a year ago? What you find is that the likelihood of attending a meeting is very similar to what it was a year ago.
That has more to do with some of the transitional things you sometimes see that can cause periodic disconnects between attendances and paid weeks which is why we focus on paid weeks as the critical measure of volume.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one last one I promise.
The rate of growth in a dot-com business in the U.S.
versus elsewhere -- I mean I know you -- I think you quoted double-digit growth in both.
But how wide is that gap? And will the U.S.
be up double digits in 2013 do you think? Well let me not speculate on 2013 explicitly.
But let me talk a little bit about the dynamics that affected sign-ups for Weight Watchers Online in the U.S.
in 2011 and 2012.
And I think what you have is kind of a confluence of a couple of events.
On one hand you have kind of a structural shift which is increasing awareness of Weight Watchers Online in the U.S.
context that's been driven by continued successful efforts around marketing to drive awareness that in fact there is a way of doing Weight Watchers that is purely online.
And that I think is much at stake -- it's much in play right now and it's as successful as it's ever been right now as was the case in 2011.
In 2011 what you also had is on top of that you had the benefit of a huge program launch and a relatively at the time fresher advertising campaign that gave kind of that added benefit in the 2011.
So the fact that sign-up growth rates in 2012 have been comparable to those in 2011 I actually view it as very good news given the size of the comp.
And then when I look forward to 2013 and I think about what we're going to have going for us is that we will have program news.
We will have new advertising campaigns for Weight Watchers Online.
So those things should be net plusses for us as we think about that business next year.
Mr.
Kirchhoff you have no further questions.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks.
In closing I'd like to thank the entire Weight Watchers team many of whom are listening on the call for a solid Q3 performance.
I'm excited about the impact of our global program innovation and our marketing strategies we'll have in 2013.
Thanks for joining us today and I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
The conference call has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to Weight Watchers International Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today Wednesday February 13 2013.
I would now like to turn the call over to Lori Scherwin of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
With us on the call is David Kirchhoff Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fourth quarter and full year financial results of fiscal 2012.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the SEC.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we review Weight Watchers International's performance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
Overall our fourth quarter results exceeded our incoming expectations.
While Nick will provide more details on our Q4 results at a high level Q4 2012 EPS was $1.03 on an as-reported basis and $0.96 excluding a $0.07 benefit from the U.K.
tax settlement that Nick will discuss later.
This compares favorably with an EPS of $0.86 in Q4 2011.
On a constant currency basis Q4 2012 total revenues was up 1.7% over the prior-year period with meeting fees down 3.5% in-meeting product sales flat and Internet revenue up 18%.
Global combined paid weeks were up 4.5% in Q4 2012 versus the same period last year.
Global meetings paid weeks were down 7.9% in Q4 while global paid weeks for our online product were up 18%.
Before Nick reviews our financial results in greater detail I'd like to provide perspective on early trends we're seeing in 2013.
In early December of 2012 we launched our new program named Weight Watchers 360 in North America with different names in other regions.
The design principle of this new program was to build upon the PointsPlus program which was rooted in tracking by incorporating additional tools and support that encourage our members to create healthier food environments and to help them focus on habitualizing the underlying behaviors of the healthy lifestyle.
This methodology was designed to help our members not just lose their weight but also to develop the skills necessary to maintain their weight loss.
The program was designed to further improve member results and provide further differentiation of our underlying program.
Early feedback from staff and members was encouraging.
While we did see some improvement in recruitment trends when we soft-launched the program in December this early momentum has not sustained itself.
In fact in January and into the first part of February we have seen double-digit declines in recruitment versus prior across both our U.S.
meetings and U.S.
Weight Watchers Online businesses.
While we fully expected our decision not to run a men's-focused advertising campaign this year will cost us in recruitment growth in our U.S.
Weight Watchers Online business this only partially explains the weakness in that business.
Needless to say we're not happy with the trends we're seeing.
Clearly in the U.S.
we've not gotten the traction we expected particularly with never-members from the Weight Watchers 360 launch.
While we believe we've gotten cut through with our new advertising campaign we have reason to believe that our January ads lacked the persuasion we needed.
The focal points of the new advertising campaign were the program news as well as sharing the success of our newest spokesperson Jessica Simpson.
Jessica had terrific success in the program losing 50 pounds since she began in the summer and we were thrilled to share that news with the public.
However as we approach the end of the year we became aware that Jessica had become pregnant which required us to take steps to adjust our advertising campaign.
While we could not be happier for Jessica and her family the news and the gossip around her pregnancy may have overshadowed any focus on her weight loss success.
As well although we believe that the new Weight Watchers 360 program will create a much stronger behavior change platform for us its benefits have proven difficult to communicate in a quick compelling way particularly for someone who does not know Weight Watchers.
The team is working hard to develop a more compelling advertising for the spring campaign.
Our Weight Watchers Online advertising has done a great job over the past few years of creating awareness for losing weight online and driving trial of our online product by advertising the fact that you could lose weight successfully online.
This worked well for us over multiple years a time during which there was no meaningful competitive online alternative.
Over the past year however there's been an increase in proliferation of free applications and Google Trends metrics indicate that consumer interest in these apps is up significantly this January.
It's now clear that the weightwatchers.com awareness-driving strategy that has been so successful at driving millions of people in the weightwatchers.com started losing some effectiveness roughly 6 months ago.
We now need to shift gears to leverage the groundswell of people interested in weight loss mobility tools by communicating the full value proposition of Weight Watchers Online and the behavior modification approach on which it's based.
Our new goal is to convince the growing number of people who are inclined to seek online weight loss help that if they're going to invest their time and effort in trying to lose weight online they should invest in the best method: Weight Watchers.
What we've been seeing this January is softness in never-member recruitment in Weight Watchers Online but continuing strength in recruiting rejoins and continuing strength in retention.
To us this reflects the fact that people who have used Weight Watchers Online and are therefore aware of the value proposition are choosing to come back rather than turning to free apps.
However as to those who have not yet experienced the value proposition we have not connected with them with our marketing.
It is the combination of our trusted brand our program built on 50 years of accumulated intellectual property and behavioral and nutritional science and our ability to aggressively develop enabling technologies to allow consumers to access that program that constitutes a value proposition that no one else can match.
Years of high satisfaction score and weight loss success are the hallmark of the Weight Watchers Online product.
The indications that we're seeing from many of these free apps is that while they're frequently downloaded they often are used only a few times and then sit idly on the consumer's device.
In this context the modest investment of $18.95 per month for Weight Watchers should be an easy decision for any consumer to make to get the delivery of actual weight loss success which is ultimately what wins in the marketplace.
Finally one of our concerns going into the new year was what impact falling off the fiscal cliff would have on U.S.
consumer confidence resulting from what would have been a broad-based tax increase.
While the worst of that was avoided the payroll tax holiday expired and consumers saw their paychecks shrink by mid January.
Indications are that consumer confidence dropped significantly in January which is the macro indicator most closely correlated with Weight Watchers recruitment.
Suffice it to say the timing was less than ideal for us.
On the positive side B2B in the U.S.
has stabilized in the small accounts business and continues to grow nicely in the strategic accounts business.
The news has also been somewhat better in CE in the U.K.
The Weight Watchers Online business in those regions has been strong for the first 6 weeks of the year.
However the meetings business particularly in the U.K.
and Germany has been buffeted by severe weather so enrollments during 3 of the 4 key weeks of January were down significantly.
The teams are taking steps to attract people that otherwise would have joined earlier but the exercise of making up for a weak January has always proven to be very difficult with our business.
Nick will now walk through more of the specifics on the fourth quarter along with some additional forecast data for 2013.
Thanks Dave and good afternoon everyone.
As Dave referenced in the fourth quarter we realized a $0.07 of EPS benefit from the settlement of our U.K.
tax litigation.
Recall that between 2009 and 2011 we had recorded a reserve of approximately $44 million but we ultimately settled for about $36 million.
All of my subsequent remarks today will exclude this benefit from P&amp;L comparisons.
Now onto fourth quarter business performance starting with weightwatchers.com.
Fourth quarter Internet revenues rose 18% on a constant currency basis.
Paid weeks also grew 18% in Q4 with double-digit growth in both the U.S.
and international.
Germany and Canada continued standout performance on the heels of first-time TV marketing.
Sign-up growth was positive in the U.S.
Canada and Continental Europe offset by flattish performance in the U.K.
End-of-period active subscribers were also up 18% as compared with end of year 2011.
This is somewhat better than our earlier expectations with a late quarter pickup in sign-ups in the U.S.
and robust growth in Continental Europe.
And after several quarters of softness U.K.
sign-up trends began to stabilize.
Within the meetings business total NACO revenue in the fourth quarter 2012 was down 2% versus the same period in fiscal 2011.
This represents moderation versus the declines witnessed in the first 9 months of the year.
NACO fourth quarter 2012 paid weeks declined 7.3% while attendance declined 14.5% versus the prior-year period.
We continue to estimate that Hurricane Sandy had an approximately 2% impact on NACO volumes.
In-meeting product sales grew 6.1% versus Q4 2011 as an increase in product sales per attendee offset lower attendance.
Next the U.K.
meetings business.
The business continued to witness volume and revenue declines versus prior and that accelerating rates in Q4 as compared to the first 9 months of 2012.
Fourth quarter paid weeks declined 17.8% versus the prior-year period and attendances were down 21.9% versus prior in line with our guidance.
Finally the Continental Europe meetings business.
Our Q4 2012 results were in line with our expectations.
Paid weeks grew 9% versus prior and attendances were up 1% versus prior benefiting from marketing and program use.
Our other revenues which include franchise commissions and licensing revenue declined 9.3% on a constant currency basis in Q4 versus the same period last year.
Licensing saw sales growth benefiting from new product licenses and an expanded product line in existing categories including yoga and canned goods but franchise commissions publishing and the magazine were down.
Now for some key financial metrics for the quarter.
In Q4 gross margin rose 30 basis points to 56.5% driven by a mix shift towards weightwatchers.com as well as accretion within weightwatchers.com partially offset by erosion in the meetings business.
Pressure in the meetings business remains a function of softer volume as well as onetime expenses associated with the call center upgrade and the impact of onetime expenses and the depreciation associated with our ongoing retail upgrade.
Separately we refined our approach to recording rent expense with a onetime negative gross margin impact of 50 basis points but without any cash flow impact.
Meetings pricing as measured by lecture income per paid week was up about 4.8% on a constant currency basis in Q4 an improvement relative to earlier in the year as we started to realize more benefits from the meetings business price increases taken at the end of 2011 particularly in NACO.
At the end of Q4 64% of active NACO Monthly Pass subscribers were on the higher price and 78% in the case of U.S.
Weight Watchers Online.
Marketing spend was up approximately 6% in the fourth quarter or up 60 basis points as a percent of sales as we geared up for our January campaign.
G&amp;A expense rose 21% in Q4 or up 230 basis points as a percent of sales as we continue to invest in our growth initiative including B2B technology and customer relationship management.
Higher medical claims this quarter and the impact of an accrual reversal in 2011 were also factors.
As a result of the factors I've just discussed our total company Q4 operating income declined 7.4% on a constant currency basis with reported OI margin down 270 basis points versus the prior-year period to 26.5%.
Our Q4 tax rate was 36.8% below our expectation of 38.5% driven largely by a onetime true-up on Canada's tax rate.
In the quarter foreign currency impact was negligible on our results.
Now some color on the outlook for 2013.
In online we saw a spike in recruitment when we launched Weight Watchers 360 and early into 2013.
But overall as Dave indicated year-to-date weightwatchers.com 2013 sign-up trends have been disappointing.
For the year we are assuming that weightwatchers.com paid weeks will be flat to slightly positive versus prior year.
In the first quarter which benefits from a higher incoming active base versus the year ago we are assuming mid to high single-digit flow.
Similar to weightwatchers.com we saw some strengthening in NACO enrollments when we launched Weight Watchers 360.
However given disappointing recruitment results to start the year we are also assuming -- we are assuming full year and Q1 attendances and paid weeks will decline in the low to mid-teens.
At the end  of December we purchased our Memphis franchise for $10 million.
Impact on Q4 and 2013 is negligible.
In late January of this year we signed an agreement to purchase the Alberta-Saskatchewan region of Canada for approximately $36 million.
We continue to believe that franchise acquisitions when we can buy them at an appropriate price represent a great use of free cash flow given the strategic and financial value and we will continue to do these opportunistically.
The U.K.
marketing campaign is better than last year's and we also saw strength in this market when we launched Weight Watchers 360 in December.
Unfortunately challenging weather conditions and a similar macro backdrop as in the U.S.
have taken a toll on early 2013 results in our key campaign season.
As a result we are assuming mid- to high-teens declines in the first quarter attendance and paid weeks given the lower incoming active base with full year 2013 decline improving to a negative high-single to low double-digit.
Weather has also been a factor year-to-date in Continental Europe particularly in Germany and our outlook is for paid weeks and attendances to be flat to down slightly.
Moving down to P&amp;L.
Gross margins are assumed to decline 200 to 300 basis points with Q1's decline in the neighborhood of negative 200 basis points given the volume outlook.
We are therefore committed to realizing several opportunities to improve our cost structure.
More on that shortly when we discuss G&amp;A.
We are currently assuming that marketing expense will decline by $25 million plus for the full year.
This decline is consistent with our previously communicated release that we have identified marketing efficiencies most notably in digital.
Note the large majority of this spend reduction falls outside of Q1 so we do not believe this is a key driver of year-to-date volume softness aside from the elimination of a U.S.
men's campaign.
As you'd expect given our current volume outlook we have kicked off a process that scrutinized all areas of expense.
And we are taking a 0 base approach.
Over several years we have experienced cost creep in both G&amp;A and operating expenses.
And we believe we have significant opportunities to be more efficient with our spend going forward.
There are several areas of focus including reducing professional fees and consulting negotiating better terms with vendors and optimizing our call center spend.
Every part of our business has a mandate to work for the corporate team in identifying and then realizing savings to first and foremost fund our future growth initiatives such as B2B and technology but also to help mitigate weakness across our core business.
More to come on this cost program on future calls in terms of savings and timing.
Prior to the impacted savings from this initiative we are assuming an increase in G&amp;A of 250 to 300 basis points as a percent of sales half of which is coming from B2B and technology investments.
Below the line for the year we expect a share count of 56 million a tax rate of 38.5% and interest expense of $85 million to $90 million.
For 2013 we expect to spend about $70 million on CapEx down from around $80 million last year.
This includes roughly $20 million related to our headquarters move offset by the near completion of the U.S.
retail initiative.
D&amp;A for the year should be about $45 million.
We ended 2012 with approximately $2.3 billion in net debt and a 4.2x net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio.
Our overall priorities for cash flow remain unchanged: Invest in our growth initiatives; opportunistically execute franchise acquisitions; reduce our debt levels; and return cash to shareholders through our quarterly dividend.
I'll now turn this back to Dave.
Thanks Nick.
We see an incredible world of opportunity for Weight Watchers but we're far from satisfied with our near-term results.
We know that the process of getting people to proactively step forward and make a fundamental change in their lives is not easy.
Lifestyle change and sustainable weight loss take work and commitment.
Weight Watchers prides itself on doing right by our members by giving them the tools they need to truly tackle difficult problems and not to promise overnight instant success.
Inherent to our category is the reality that consumers often make decisions on hope so the challenges of the latest quick-fix are always difficult.
This is compounded by the fact that our category is also directly impacted by consumer discretionary spend which has been unfavorable over the past few years.
In the short term we're actively working to adapt our marketing to the reality of our current competitive context.
Much of the work in the past 5 years has greatly improved the underlying strength of our brand.
Today we're a much more visible brand with greatly improved image of modernity.
This isn't hope on our part but rather based on measured brand scores.
According to our tracking study growing percentages of consumers describe Weight Watchers as "for people like me" and as "a plan that fits my lifestyle" as well as "more modern." We now have a program that is even better suited to longer-term behavior change in ways that are completely unmatched.
We believe passionately in our mission and the role for us to play in fighting the obesity epidemic.
We see the success of our members every day and we know that there are many many more tools that we can bring to bear to help consumers deal with this difficult problem.
We can and will grow our B2C business but it will require us to be much more aggressive in certain areas than have been the case in the past.
We still do not appeal to nearly as broad a consumer market as should be the case given the efficacy of our program.
Given our combination of science intellectual property technology skills and passionate people on the ground we have the longer-term opportunity to combine these elements in ways that we had never done before.
Doing so will require a greater willingness to depart from the usual ways that Weight Watchers has offered.
Group support will always stand at the core of our offering but we have the opportunity to also create versions of Weight Watchers that allow us to appeal to a wider customer base.
We can do all this in a way where we can simultaneously increase our consumer appeal while more directly tapping into the true sources of our competitive advantage.
We do not believe the emerging technologies of mobility wearable devices social media et cetera as threats.
Rather we view them as valuable tools to leverage with our intellectual property face-to-face capabilities expert advice in science and our ability to integrate all the above in novel ways to grow our business and once and for all tackle the obesity epidemic.
We will continue to invest behind our B2B health care initiatives with a particular focus in developing our data collection capabilities and continuing to build out our account management skills.
As noted earlier our strategic business is off to another great double-digit growth start and our small account business has been stabilizing.
We brought in multiple new strategic employer accounts including the City of Boston the City of Newark New Jersey and several major health systems among others.
We will continue to build on that success.
Over the last several years we've been increasing our investment in areas such as technology B2B and others as a way to pursue a multitude of opportunities.
Without rapid top line growth our G&amp;A as a percentage of revenue is too high.
As many of you know we recently hired Jim Chambers as our Global President and Chief Operating Officer.
Jim brings a wealth of experience with significant leadership roles in companies ranging from Nabisco to Cadbury to Kraft.
His leadership will allow us to take our impact and execution to an entirely new level of performance.
By way of example I've asked Jim in partnership with Nick to take a fresh look at our organization how it's structured and how we're delivering against our opportunities and objectives.
I believe this effort will yield higher organizational performance as well as lower cost.
On a separate but related point after a long and great career with Weight Watchers Melanie Stubbing the current President of Europe will be leaving us in April and moving onto her next chapter.
Jim has elected not to replace her in her position but instead to elevate Corrine Pollier the current GM of France to lead all Continental Europe and to have Corrine and Andrew Knight GM of U.K.
report directly to him.
In addition Mike Basone our current CTO and President of weightwatchers.com has chosen to pursue other opportunities.
Mike will be with us until the middle of the year.
Mike has been with us since the beginning days of weightwatchers.com.
Both Mike and Mel have made huge and enduring positive impacts on our organization and both will be greatly missed.
The earnings guidance we will provide reflects the scope of uncertainty that we've seen.
Our earnings guidance reflects an assumption that the underlying trends that we're seeing right now will persist through the duration of the year.
The impact to the volume will be significant with full year forecasted global meetings attendances and paid week declines in the high-single to low-double-digits.
We're assuming flat to slightly positive full year paid weeks growth for Weight Watchers Online business.
However we will show some benefit from higher pricing and continued mix shift toward Monthly Pass.
Therefore we're assuming low-double-digit revenue declines for the full year.
We will work to manage marketing and G&amp;A spend in the context of revenue loss but we will do so without endangering our investment areas.
Therefore we're providing a relatively wide range of EPS guidance for the year of $3.50 to $4 with the lower end assuming no change in recruitment and the higher end reflecting realization of benefits from our cost savings initiatives.
We expect to tighten this forecast on our Q1 call when we have greater visibility into volume trends and when we will have quantified our cost reduction opportunities.
In the context of the current business environment and our need to focus the team on moving the business forward we have decided to schedule our Analyst Day for the second half of this year.
We're committed to sharing more specifics of our long-term plan with you including a deep dive in the B2B and other critical growth areas for this business.
At this time operator I would like to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And before we start questions if I could just make 1 point.
I misspoke.
On our assumption for revenue for the year we're assuming low-single-digit revenue declines not double-digit revenue declines.
Thank you for that.
Sorry.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Bob Craig of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David just broadly speaking it sounded to me like what we're going to see from Weight Watchers going forward is perhaps a greater strategic emphasis on the online side versus the meetings business? Is that an accurate assessment of what you've been saying? No.
That's not the way I would characterize it.
What's interesting Bob is that historically up to now we've been able to operate effectively with 2 offerings: Monthly Pass and Weight Watchers Online.
In both we've been able to add value to both Monthly Pass particularly through retention increasing retention in meetings business.
And Weight Watchers Online has given us an effective way of bringing in more people into the commercial dieting space.
But what's really been happening particularly over the past year is that there this notion of dieting online is really taking hold and people are now using not just Weight Watchers but pursuing a variety of other approaches albeit one that I believe are generally going to be less effective for them.
I think what we see going forward is an opportunity to sort of break free of the historic approach of being purely focused on having a purely online offering and a purely meetings offering that includes an online component and doing variations of the above that make differing advantages of the components we have in face-to-face interaction our underlying science and everything else to conceive of entirely kind of new versions if you will of Weight Watchers that build upon what we do that allow us to kind of spread our offering out to appeal to a wider range of consumers.
I think one thing that's -- a really important point to make and this was seen in a recent independent academic study in the Journal of Internal Medicine but it's also borne out by a lot of our internal research is that when you look at what actually drives efficacy in terms of successful outcomes what we see is that the things such as apps in online and Internet offerings really reach their full potential when combined with human face-to-face interaction.
And it's really the combining of all of these elements that you have the greatest outcomes in terms of weight loss success.
And we believe that over time that this is the most critical thing for us to focus on.
So I continue to actually believe more and more that face-to-face elements are going to be an even in some respect bigger part of kind of who we are.
I just think it's going to take evidence potentially in forms above and beyond the traditional group support.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Second question is what are your thoughts David on trying to enhance affordability in this kind of environment? I know that obviously you had price increases that you've taken over the last 18 months.
I don't know whether that's -- been a detrimental -- had a detrimental impact on attendance.
But any thoughts on increasing promotional activity or potentially even using some temporary price rollbacks? Here's kind of the way I look at price which is obviously in the context of value.
When I think about value the good news if you will for us across both Weight Watchers Online as well as with meetings is that the recruitment issues we're facing is not from rejoins.
In fact if I look at the U.S.
online business which is -- had kind of the toughest time of all our online markets Weight Watchers rejoin activity if you will returning subscribers was up nicely over prior year as well.
Retention has really held up very nicely over the course of the past number of years including the worst of the Great Recession.
And then finally if I look at scores that our members and subscribers give us in terms of perceived value they remain as high as they've ever been.
So what that tells me is that once we get people going into the program we don't have an issue from a value recognition point of view.
Now I do think that a challenge that we're facing right now is clearly therefore on trial driving trial into Weight Watchers particularly for people who have never used us before.
And given the context of difficult economic circumstances and the fact that there's these things like free apps and those types of things I think it's putting additional pressure on us to think of new and better ways to convey our message and market our message and communicate our value proposition.
But I wouldn't rule out the possibility that there are ways of us thinking about better and more effective ways to promote the product that could also stimulate trial.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me and I'll it over.
Where are you versus where you think you need to be in terms of internal infrastructure to be able to grow the B2B business the large corporate business? We've made great progress in the past year.
And that team is really coming together nicely.
We made a couple of great hires.
We're continuing to build out the technology infrastructure.
That's probably the hardest part of this is really making sure that we have the data collection and capture capability to service the needs of some of these large accounts.
It's our expectation that -- so what we're doing with that is we're in the process of rolling out laptop computers in sort of what we call travel locations including locations on the work site.
Our plan is right now this year to roll out about 500 of those which among other things would allow us to cover the top 25 strategic accounts -- or 25 of the top strategic accounts by the end of the year and that's really a learning platform that we can then take into the next year.
And at the same time even in the context of managing costs in G&amp;A much more closely we're making sure that we properly cordon off certain investment areas to make sure that they're getting the adequate oxygen they need to continue building out so we can capture this opportunity.
I'll continue to make the point that on the health care side of the opportunity set the more time we spend talking to people ranging from employers to health systems to insurance companies and everything else the more we see that there's a tremendous pent-up need that as the health care world shifts from pay per -- fee-for-service to population health or capitated models then that is going to drive demand for preventive care services.
And in that market if you look at our 80-plus clinical studies the fact that we're low-cost and the fact that we have a fully scaled up solution puts us in a position to have significant differentiation from many other obesity treatment out there.
I think it's absolutely crucial that we keep pace on making sure that we're continuing to build out what we have to do for that opportunity set so we can grow into that while at the same time reenergizing our B2C business.
Our next question comes from Glen Santangelo from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David I'm just kind of curious.
Based on the trends that you've seen now through the first 6 weeks of the year could you -- it sounds like you're forecasting paid weeks in attendance on average between NACO and international down kind of low-double-digits and so I'm curious if you could speak maybe to the conservatism of your new outlook particularly on the context that it sounds like you're going to be trimming your marketing expectations from your -- or your marketing dollars from your original expectations.
And I'm kind of curious as to given that you're disappointed with the enrollment to date I mean does it make sense to trim those marketing expenses at this point in time? Yes I should probably clarify that a little bit.
So first off in terms of our expectation I mean it's always obviously a tricky time of year for us to forecast the full year because we're literally -- if I kind of look at where the business has been over the past 2 or 3 months volume trends both online and meetings as you heard Nick talk about all the way through December are actually looking pretty good.
And the first week of January was actually quite good particularly for the U.S.
online business.
So that looks so -- things were looking up.
And it really wasn't until the second third week of January that we saw a significant drop.
And what we have effectively done in building our forecast is we've assumed that that depressed level of volume that we've seen in weeks 2 through 5 of the year so far 2 through 6 really is going to be persistent over the course -- the full course of the year.
So that's effectively the methodology that the forecast is built on.
Whether that's conservative or not I mean I hope you're right.
But we felt that that was a better way to forecast the volume of the business.
Now the marketing point is a little bit of a different point.
We're not actually reducing marketing beyond what we were planning on doing when we entered the new year.
So nothing is happening in the marketing budget that's in response to the current conditions.
The 2 things that are changing in the marketing principally speaking 1 is we did make the decision to take 1 year off of our men's awareness driving campaign mostly because the cost for acquisition we were seeing particularly in the spring and fall were not at our levels of expectation in terms of what was profitable marketing spend which could -- we think arguably is partially a result of the way that we were doing it in terms of creative execution and other things.
What we chose to do therefore was rather than for example advertising Weight Watchers for men in January what we chose to do instead was to shift some of that marketing not all of it but some of that marketing support behind the German Weight Watchers Online campaign.
But nonetheless our expectation for the year is that taking out the men's marketing does reduce some of the marketing pressure and that was always in the plan.
The other part of the plan is reducing the amount of money we spend on banner advertising specifically.
And our reason for that is not because we're worried about managing our marketing budget in the context of what's happening with the overall P&amp;L but it was more driven out of a recognition we had that we were increasingly coming to the conclusion that the CPA the cost per acquisition associated with many of banner ads were worth anything significantly understated and therefore were not economic for us to do i.e.
we were losing money on them.
And so what we're effectively doing is in the reduction of digital advertising we're eliminating nonproductive spend because it just wasn't driving nearly enough volume for the cost of getting that volume.
So that was the assumption based on our analysis going into the year.
And if you actually look at the volume trends we're seeing Nick alluded to in January the impact of that shift in digital strategy really doesn't hit until Q2 3 and 4.
And the reason for that is that organic demand during those last 3 quarters is generally going to be less which means banner ads that were a little bit suspect under normal circumstances suddenly become much more suspect.
So the way I would actually express it is that if we see opportunities to get into the market with advertising and marketing that we believe is going to deliver at a cost effective CPA we will absolutely spend that money.
So we actually continue to have appetite to look for new ways of investing marketing dollars but what we're doing is we're applying perhaps an even greater level of discipline in making sure that we're getting the right ROI out of what we do.
So I think the opportunity for us is to find better and more effective marketing vehicles so that we can have reason to spend more money.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate all that color.
Maybe if I could just ask 1 quick follow-up.
You kind of commented on sort of the increasingly competitive online landscape.
And sort of given the proliferation of all of these online apps how do you think about the sustainability of those growth trends what you've seen in the dot-com business? Now it sounds like based on your expectations you've sort of tempered that growth outlook for 2013 I'm guessing that's somewhat consistent with what you've seen in the first 6 weeks of the year but do you still feel confident that despite all that increased competition you should still be able to grow this business year-over-year not only in '13 but as you look out over the next couple of years? We do for the following reasons.
Fundamentally the thing that I take the most heart in is that after years of having people actively subscribing to and paying for Weight Watchers Online they see tremendous value in it and they have great success on it which is the thing that ultimately matters.
And again we've seen this in satisfaction studies we do multiple times per year every year.
We see this in the fact that actually -- one way of thinking about this is that if there was an issue with the value proposition for Weight Watchers Online we wouldn't be seeing repeat activity because those people would naturally sort of be gravitating towards other options presumably things like free apps.
But that's not actually the phenomena we're seeing.
People are absolutely coming back to us.
And furthermore we haven't seen any loss in retention.
So I mean that's what leads us to the point of view that the value proposition remains strong.
I think what you're seeing happen is that -- and we've seen this kind of anecdotally including industry references across a wide range of a lot of these self-tracking help apps is that there's a tendency for people to download them onto their device and in many or most cases use them a few times and then stop using them.
The impact of that on us short term is that that effectively takes that person out of the mix.
Now the fact that they ultimately haven't lost weight means that they're still going to have a weight problem in that they're still going to come back to us.
And I think the thing that I want to keep emphasizing is that when you talk to a Weight Watchers Online subscriber and say what is it that you're buying when you get Weight Watchers Online they will say first and foremost they're doing Weight Watchers and the technology is something that enables the possibility of doing Weight Watchers in an online context but they're buying the program basically.
And so when I kind of come back to the value proposition and the things that we can do to both improve how we communicate it but also the things that we can and are going to be doing to continue making it better and better both this year and in the years to come in ways that I think are going to be difficult for 6 guys in a box compete for the match that I think we're going to be in a position that that business gets stronger.
Now 1 way to think about this is the paid weeks for Weight Watchers Online are roughly comparable to the paid weeks for the meetings business yet the Weight Watchers Online product has a considerably lower price point which on that basis alone would suggest that there's headroom for growth.
I think that it's effectively -- to me this in some respects sort of similar to for example writing a low carb label if you want to think of it that way.
There's part of this which is the trial wait that we have to kind of get through with a lot of these apps.
But I think we view it as an opportunity to kind of up our game in terms of what innovation in that product looks like and how we drive it going forward as well as how we market it.
Glen if I could just add 1 more thing to this marketing conversation.
We looked at our guidance for '13 actually view it on the context of what '12 was we spent $344 million of marketing in 2012 and a high watermark of 18.8% of sales.
And so that's why partly why we think there's opportunity to look for pragmatic sensible efficiencies without of course doing anything to choke off recruitments.
Our next question comes from Brian Wang of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The first question I have is sort of a follow-up on some of the other questions that have already been asked.
But I guess do you think 1 of the issues in the year-to-date trend is that the new Weight Watchers 360 program wasn't a big enough change or upgrade? And is there any way to know that the year-to-date weakness is being caused by the weak advertising methods rather than other country-specific issues such as potential in the program? Yes.
It's a great question.
And I think one way to think about what we call program innovation or new programs is that there are some changes that we make which are designed to improve the process and be more effective once somebody has already started.
And there are others that are designed to make Weight Watchers feel more acceptable and more appealing.
So I'll give you a couple of obvious examples of the latter which is when we launched points and moved away from food exchanges it greatly expanded our potential audience by creating a virtual Weight Watchers that was very simple and sort of much more accessible to people that were living on the go.
When we launched Weight Watchers Online which is an innovation in it's own right it basically gave people a way of doing Weight Watchers but allowed them to have the option of doing it online and that brought a lot of new people into the brand.
PointsPlus similarly was very kind of catchy in that there was these sort of pre-approved new formula more nutrition-based more nutritious that was very -- it leant itself to word-of-mouth and it was a good trial vehicle.
I think what we learned with Weight Watchers 360 is that we were very focused and almost single-minded in our design of improving the behavior change techniques for people once they started.
And our assumption was that if we were really good at doing that that we could somehow find a way to like come up with a catchy way of marketing it so that people would sort of get it.
I think what you'll see with Weight Watchers 360 and what we've seen from our tracking studies is that people definitely know that Weight Watchers has a new program but they have no idea what it is.
And for a person who doesn't know Weight Watchers what we couldn't find was that kind of singular grabby way that would really sort of ignite their interest and drive trials.
And I think that sometimes that's a little bit endemic when you have a program change that's very much focused on kind of the internals of once you've already started.
I mean and to be honest with you frankly if I look at Weight Watchers 360 in some respects it gets stronger as you get closer to your goal.
And actually it's a great way of helping people think for maintenance but that's a long way from someone who's just starting.
So I think what we learned from this is that we were hopeful with this new program that we could find a way of therefore communicating it to create a lot of buzz and excitement to get people who have never done Weight Watchers before to come to us.
But we could not find a message in this new program that delivered against that objective.
That would have been difficult enough but -- and frankly we don't have to have program news to get value for marketing.
And our intention going into this year was we're going to have both program news and the new advertising campaign featuring a new spokesperson and ambassador.
Like I don't know what the probability that we would be kind of experiencing the conditions we experienced.
I mean Janet's [ph] wonderful for Jessica and I couldn't be happier for her but the timing in terms of how it worked with our campaigns couldn't have been much worse.
And at that point literally as we were finding out we were going into filming and there was just not a thing we could do about it.
So we just tried to have -- to make the best that we could.
It meant that we kind of had to spend more time basically reverting back to effectively the old advertising creative.
So we kind of got a double whammy of a program that didn't really convey and drive a lot of trial interest by itself.
And that combined with an advertising campaign that did not provide the newness in advertising that we were hoping to have.
Research Division</strong> And that sort of leads me to the second question I had.
I think you mentioned that you were going to do a new marketing message for the spring? Is that sort of a major revamp? Because I guess last year when U.K.
your marketing message missed you needed to wait I don't think it was 1 full year but you basically waited about 1 year due to lead times on those campaigns.
So if you could just talk a little bit about that please? Yes.
That's a good point.
One of the tricks with the spring is that we also -- because it's just one of those years where things are just happening in a particular way.
This was a year with a very early Easter.
In fact I think it's the earliest Easter can be.
Don't ask me to explain the Gregorian calendar dynamics of how that works.
But it's an early Easter which means we don't have a lot of time between now and when we get our advertising spots out for the spring campaign.
What that effectively means is that we can do some changes and tweaks to the advertising but any place where we feel like our strategy our underlying strategy might not be quite right so for example I talked about Weight Watchers Online means it really limits our ability to do a complete revamp.
So what we can do is we can punch certain points a little bit harder we can change a couple messages up but it doesn't afford us time to do a complete sort of relaunch if you will and come up with an entirely new advertising campaign but we can do some things on the margin.
So I want to kind of temper expectations which is one of the reasons why we have assumed that the volume trends we're seeing now persist throughout the year.
I want to temper expectations of how far we can get in spring but recognize that we're going to be doing kind of a big reevaluation of the strategy that would put us in a better position potentially in fall and certainly by next winter campaign.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one.
This one's probably for Nick.
Can you please discuss the debt covenants? I guess it's the -- guidance came in at the low end of the range whether that would sort of trip up any of the debt covenant.
Is there any issues there? Yes good question.
And as you can imagine as a ex-corporate treasurer who lived through the global financial crisis covenants and the capital structure is something I look at closely.
We've got real strong cash flow.
I'm comfortable with our covenants.
And the debt market is hard always open to ways to optimize our capital structure but no plans at this time and we're very comfortable with our covenants.
Research Division</strong> Even at the low end do you think it's fine? Yes.
Look at -- you can do the same math.
I can do it but -- yes I mean we're basically -- I'm comfortable with our covenants situation.
Our next question comes from Peter Wahlstrom of Morningstar Investment.
Research Division</strong> Circling back to the online topic are you seeing more competition primarily in the U.S.
or is this a global issue where it's equally prevalent in the U.K.
and Continental Europe? It's a great question.
We actually see proliferation of applications across the global market.
To the extent that it's had impact the impact seems to be strongest in the U.S.
Now I think one of the things that's worth pointing out is that just in general the shift of consumer usage around smartphones and tablets is obviously taking lots of organizations by surprise.
I'm not -- I think the rates of adoption have been fairly consistent across most of the Western economies.
So again what is worth noting is that the online business in Europe is running ahead of prior after comping a good year.
So I think that's a positive sign despite the fact they also have some pre-app competition.
It may not be quite as intense as what we're seeing in the U.S.
where it can basically the U.S.
app environment can support a lot more players than a country with a smaller population.
But I also think that it is worth noting that there's other things at play.
I mean the macro impact of what's going on with the U.S.
economy again it obviously didn't do us any favors particularly in the context that I just described the competitive context with the payroll tax going through the beginning of January could not have been worse timing from our perspective.
So I think you do have a couple of factors that were sort of working together in an unfortunate way.
Again I view these as opportunities.
I don't have any doubt that I've got a better mousetrap with Weight Watchers Online in terms of helping people systematically deal with the weight issue than they can get from any 1 singular app.
I think the challenge is for us is to use this as an opportunity and a catalyst to be that much more aggressive.
Research Division</strong> Fair Point.
And maybe that ties into -- one of the previous questions was asked about revisiting the pricing model or using promotions.
And I guess based on your response that even though Weight Watchers is set to become more aggressive in the online space you don't view this as the company is having to make a structural change to a pricing model.
Maybe it's a tiered service or something along the lines of all options on the table? Is that fair to say? I mean I think there's a lot of options on the table.
But I think one of the options that I'm not contemplating is changing the fact that Weight Watchers Online even at current price point of $18.95 a month is a great value for the customers that are using it based on what they tell us.
I think that the point I was making earlier is that if our challenge is driving trial and that is our challenge right now there's -- I think it's a very fair question to say are there -- in addition to having a different marketing strategy/message are there other things we can think about in terms of promotional strategies that might be more beneficial to driving trial in a competitive context? And I think that is absolutely on the table.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And taking a step back when you mentioned that you're seeing success with returning members and retention in contrast to the never-members and maybe some of the online pressures are you seeing a subtle demographic shift maybe where you're missing out on a younger individual or a particular income segment of the population? Not really although let me take a step back and say we only have again 5 or 6 weeks of data for January.
So we're not that deep on demographic trends.
I would be surprised but that's 1 of the analyses that we'll be taking a look at.
If there was an income effect the obvious hypothesis would be those people at the lower end of the income spectrum are the ones that are seeing the biggest hit on disposable spending as a result of the payroll tax because that effectively was a regressive tax increase.
And so if there was going to be a place where I thought that was going to have particular impact on it -- on us I would say it would be for households earning $60 000 to $70 000 or less.
But again I think it's going to be a little while until we have a read on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And one last item.
In December Vivus announced better-than-expected prescription growth from its Qsymia product.
I'd asked about that a couple quarters ago but wondering if you're seeing that as having a material impact on either a detractor for new signups or maybe the way that people perceive Weight Watchers? As I understand it and I had a chance to listen to the Vivus presentation when I was out at San Francisco at the health care conference I think they're -- you have to put their trial numbers in the context of what they were expecting and where they are in the distribution strategy.
I think if you looked at the sheer number of people getting prescriptions on -- for their weight loss drug in terms of just absolute numbers it's pretty tiny right now.
So I think what you're hearing from them is more how it compares versus our expectation on a slow rollout.
I'll make the point that even in places where Qsymia is getting coverage as I understand it you're still looking at a co-pay of $40 or $50 a month.
So I think -- and that's where there's coverage.
So I think look we take every competitive threat as you've already heard we take every competitive threat seriously.
The other -- I would say though that with these medications that consumers are going to have to pay significant out-of-pocket for them under virtually all circumstances and certainly compared to the price of Weight Watchers.
I'll also continue to make the point that those -- that all of these obesity medications approved or to be approved were predicated as an adjunct to a behavior change effort as opposed to a replacement to a behavior change effort.
And so like a lot of things we think that this does -- if all these things drive greater interest around behavior change the question is how do we leverage that increased interest? Next question comes from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dave I just want to take a step back and get more of a long-term view around the meeting business.
Historically organic attendance in North America has been declining pretty consistently over the last decade except for a couple of years.
And obviously it looks weak again in 2013.
And it seems like that goes beyond just the ineffective marketing message you cited.
I just want to get your perspective on what the big issues are holding you back on the meeting business and as you think about the business going forward are there game changers in terms of how you manage the business that can help reinvigorate growth? Yes I think there's a -- I would characterize it the following way.
I mean I would think that to your point I would say that when we have the right combination of marketing and program news we're able to drive some pretty nice growth in terms of enrollment activity around the meetings business specifically I'm talking about 2011.
Frankly even if I looked at recruitment trends in the beginning of 2000 -- at the first half of 2012 for NACO meetings those enrollment numbers were at or nicely ahead of 2009 and '10 they just had a tough comp.
It really was toward the back half of the year that we saw increasing pressure from enrollment activity and that's obviously continued into this January in the meetings side of the business.
I think from a longer-term perspective I see a couple of things.
First off I do see a world of Weight Watchers in which there is more in the offering than just online and meetings.
So I think that you could see various ways of us leveraging our face-to-face capabilities going forward.
I think the reality is is that every study that comes out again shows that the thing that is most predictive of weight loss outcomes and efficacy are often things that surround -- are surrounded by group support.
It works from a behavior change point of view on a multitude of dimensions.
And unlike traditional retailers being disintermediated by online options like Amazon and things like that there's no alternative out there that delivers weight loss outcomes like the combination of group support combined with Internet and apps.
So my underlying presumption is that when you have something that does a better job of driving weight-loss success that there are ultimately ways of driving it.
So the trick for us is figuring out how to unlock those opportunities in a B2C context.
And again I think that what I view this Dara and this is something that I think maybe in some respect speaks to some of the things that you've written about the company over the years is that we have to recognize that in some respect that we need to be that much more aggressive in how we innovate and present our overall offering.
The other point I would make is that interestingly if you look at the Weight Watchers meetings model for example in a B2B context where things like clinical data and outcomes and measurability and those types of factors become that much more important and so if you asked me from a longer-term point of view I think there are things we can do to push and drive the B2C business but I also view over time meetings becoming kind of a lead offering of behavior change for the treatment of things like prediabetes.
And so when you move into a health care context interestingly enough that part of our business effectively Monthly Pass and variants thereof becomes an even more compelling offering for us to have that ends up being the thing that is lower cost than other alternatives that are out in the market.
So I think that as I kind of look at it I've always -- I've expected over the past year that sort of what I'll call lighter versions of Weight Watchers such as Weight Watchers Online and others are going to get an increasing percentage of our B2C business and activity.
But that kind of the all-singing all-dancing version of Weight Watchers which is Monthly Pass is going to increasingly become the lead horse as we push into B2B health care states.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it clearly sounds like you're focused SG&amp;A efficiencies going forward.
Can you discuss what the key areas you're looking at are in terms of potential cost cutting and if we can expect a more broad restructuring program at some point or if you're focused more on belt tightening? No I think it's -- I would kind of put it into 2 or 3 big buckets of activity.
I think first off as we become larger as an organization we have an increase in cost but with that also comes an increase in organizational complexity.
And I think it's mostly been a function of trying to do a lot of different things at the same time because we have lots and lots of opportunities in different places.
I think 1 of the important opportunities we now see in the context of all of this is really tightening up our focus on the bets that we're making and making sure that we resource behind those bets and de-prioritize things that might have been nice to do but frankly aren't as important to our long-term future.
And what that allows us to do is therefore tighten up organizational focus and that allows us to reduce cost at the same time.
I'll give you a really clean example of this is that we literally have doubled the amount of money we spent on professional services over the past 3 years and I'm talking tens of millions of dollars.
And I'm not sure that we're getting the return on investment from that incremental spend as I kind of look back at it.
So that's an example where I think we can significantly tighten up.
We also have to prioritize to get there.
So that's kind of the first bucket.
The second bucket is that I think we have an opportunity to look at how we're structured as an organization organizationally and are there different ways of configuring ourselves that allow us to be both more agile and better at execution and at the same time do things more efficiently with less cost? Then finally I think there's always an opportunity as 1 of my boardroom members refers to it as mowing the grass which you can use to basically -- if you want to call it belt tightening which is just taking a fresh look through the entire cost structure and cutting out those activities leaning harder on vendors those types of things.
But the combination of all those things both reduces cost but also increases organizational effectiveness at the same time.
And it's -- our view is not one or the other but both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the B2B spending increase in 2013 are you leaving 2013 in more of a sustainable type of spending base? Or should we expect still substantial spending increases on the infrastructure for B2B over time beyond 2013? I think you can expect the areas of -- and a lot of this obviously is already built into our guidance.
It's all frankly built into our guidance.
But the places where we're increasing spending is to a certain extent people although we now have a nice sort of core B2B team that's currently in place.
But frankly a lot more of where the money is coming from is the process of creating data collection capabilities in our meetings.
That's probably the biggest area of spend.
And at some point we reach steady state on that.
And I think once we have the data collection capability the nice thing is that it's a platform that can actually serve a lot of ends: 1 enabling our health care opportunity; but 2 as we're getting real-time data on members as they're coming to us I think it also creates some opportunities to certain point tools around customer fragility and these types of things would give us opportunity to increase retention.
So we think that the ROI for that activity is going to be very very strong we just want to make sure we execute it the right way.
In terms of providing kind of a forward look beyond 2013 of the spend behind some of these we're going to have a little bit more to share.
Again we were hoping to have the investor meeting the investor conference in the first half for all the reasons that are probably apparent right now we need the team focused on the things they focus on right now.
But we'll be in a position towards the second half to provide a lot more clarity for what that investment level as well as our expected return against it looks like in '14 '15 and '16.
Our next question comes from Olivia Tong of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Why do you think the recruitment trend started off well but then -- in both the meetings and online and then decelerated quickly after that? It's a good question.
I think the most obvious thing is that when we have the soft launch we did get some buzz from that.
And I think that helped drive recruitment levels a little bit.
I do think that there's also this interesting effect in January.
If I had to hypothesize it we're still kind of sifting through the data but if I had to hypothesize there are 2 things that were -- that changed in December.
One was the macroeconomic.
So this is when the payroll tax holiday went through.
And I think there have been reports that a number of retailers have been sort of feeling the effect of this in January but that's purely a January phenomena.
Really the impact that people were seeing on their paychecks was happening in the second and third week.
I think that explains part of it.
I think frankly -- and yes January is the time when everybody is trying whatever the new thing is.
And so you might generally see increasing pickup of whatever fad or quick fix approach it might be and so that potentially wasn't doing us any favors.
But frankly most significantly I think the fact that the messaging around the program and the advertising supporting it not hitting expectations really you're going to see the effect of that mostly as you get into like weeks to and beyond January.
And I think that's exactly what we're seeing.
So we're just -- we're not getting the lift from our marketing that we would otherwise have gotten had things gone differently in terms of both the program having a connecting hook with the never-member as well as the impact of the advertising.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then in terms of your guidance you guys said that you've obviously got a pretty big range there and you typically start the year with a pretty big range.
But can you give a little bit more color in terms of what your expectations are on the bottom end versus the top end in terms of recruitment and then also on the cost saves relatively speaking? Yes look on the lower end of our guidance essentially that the trends that we're seeing right now in recruitment have set throughout the year duration of the year on the high end of the guidance.
It incorporates the benefits of our lower prioritization and lower cost reduction activities that Dave's described and that we kicked off last week with the team.
Last question that we have for today.
I would like to turn the meeting back over to Mr.
Kirchhoff.
Thanks.
In summary while the near term is challenging we have experienced similar challenges in the past and have overcome them each time and we will do so again this time.
I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thanks very much.
The conference has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines.
We thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Weight Watchers International's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today Thursday May 2 2013.
At this time I would now like to turn the meeting over to Lori Scherwin of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead Ms.
Scherwin.
Thank you Fred and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's first quarter 2013 conference call.
With us on the call is David Kirchhoff CEO; and Nick Hotchkin CFO.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the first quarter financial results of fiscal 2013.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Dave.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we review Weight Watchers International's performance for the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Despite a challenging recurring [ph] picture our Q1 results benefited from appropriate actions on our cost structure and exceeded our earlier expectations.
Revenue declined 3.3% versus the prior year with meeting fees declining 6.5% and meeting product sales declining 14.8% and Internet revenues growing 10.9%.
Gross profit declined 3% and operating income was essentially flat versus prior year.
With the benefit of the reduced share count from last year's tender offer and related share repurchases only partially offset by the associated higher interest expense Q1 2013 EPS was $0.87 up 18% from Q1 2012 EPS of $0.74.
2013 is proving to be a challenging year for recruitments across most of our business but we're pleased that retention in our meetings and online businesses have remained strong.
As we discussed in our last call in February a winter campaign failed to drive the level of interest in trial we were looking for.
This combined with continued difficulty in the consumer macroeconomy poor weather in Europe and the rapid acceleration in the trial of free assets created a particularly muted environment.
In response we've made numerous adjustments to improve our bottom line performance and we're making progress.
We reacted quickly over the course of the first quarter and we were able to enter the spring campaign at the beginning of April with fresh advertising.
Our meeting star featuring Jennifer Hudson focused on a recent clinical study showing 5x more weight loss than self-directed dieting and we're much more direct in our messaging.
Further we formed a relationship with Saturday Night Live alum and Suburgatory star Ana Gasteyer to create a new set of Weight Watchers Online spots.
While we've seen some evidence that this new creative is providing some incremental benefit to our recruitment since we launched it post Easter we do not anticipate these changes alone will be sufficient to overcome the headwinds in the business.
Given the top line challenges we're facing across the business the team has moved quickly to improve our cost structure by aggressively seeking efficiencies across cost areas with a particular focus on inefficient marketing spend and G&amp;A.
As Nick will review shortly we've made early progress which will benefit our ability to mitigate the impact of the lost volume.
Equally as important we're driving efficiency without stepping back from our medium- to long-term investment areas.
Over the past few months we've had time to diagnose the issues impacting our business.
The combination of continued uncertainty about the global economy as well as the impact of local changes such as the retirement of the U.S.
payroll tax holiday have created meaningful pressure on multiple segments of the consumer economy particularly the lower middle income demographics.
In our consumer research we've consistently found commercial weight management to be among the more discretionary consumer spending categories.
In the same research we've increasingly found that concerns over money and financial commitment have become by far the biggest reasons for postponing enrollment in a commercial weight-loss program.
This macroenvironment would have been difficult in isolation but add to this we're also experiencing an explosion of interest by consumers in various free fitness and weight-loss applications.
In this cash-strapped environment the sudden proliferation and popularity of free alternative offerings has created a surge of trial in these apps.
The resulting impact is contributing to a challenging recruitment environment similar to what we saw back in 2000 with the low-carb diet fad.
Although the macro factors are somewhat out of our control we acknowledge that our new program Weight Watchers 360 and the supporting marketing campaigns we launched in January were not as effective in generating trials as they should have been which exacerbated the situation.
As I shared on our last call the Weight Watchers 360 program was designed to build upon PointsPlus by providing tools to help our members not just lose weight but to give them the skills and tools to keep it off.
In retrospect the program resonated more with current members versus potential new consumers unfamiliar with our offering.
While a useful step for us to take in developing our offering the 360 program has not proved to be effective in improving our ability to drive trial.
Beyond 360 our marketing communications had other challenges.
We were forced late into our planning to put our relationship with Jessica Simpson on pause due to her pregnancy and our advertisments were not nearly direct enough in communicating it a fair weight-loss benefit.
Finally our Weight Watchers online advertising campaign focused more on the features versus the value proposition which will be important for us to continue increasingly incorporating going forward.
While I'm pleased that we acted quickly to have new marketing air for the spring season we know there is much more to do.
Before I share more about our strategic plans Nick will review the details of our Q1 performance and cost-saving efforts as well as provide guidance on our forecast for the duration of the year.
Thanks Dave and good afternoon everyone.
Total company revenue declined 3.3% in Q1 and paid weeks growth of 1.4%.
I will first provide details of each segment's first quarter performance versus prior as well as our updated volume outlook.
Starting with weightwatchers.com.
First quarter Internet revenues grew approximately 11% on a constant currency basis.
Paid weeks rose 10% which was somewhat ahead of our earlier expectations with growth in both the U.S.
and International.
Continental Europe and Canada had stand-out double-digit performance.
That said sign-ups grew weaker and turned negative in the U.S.
though they were up strongly internationally.
As a result end-of-period active subscribers rose 6%.
Importantly retention remains unchanged at 9 months.
We expect weightwatchers.com paid weeks growth in each quarter this year albeit at decelerating rates given the lower sign-up trend in the first quarter.
For the year paid weeks should now be up low-single digits which is slightly ahead of our prior guidance of flat to up slightly.
This outlook assumes the economic and competitive environment remains the same.
Within the meetings business total NACO revenue in the first quarter declined 6.6% versus the prior year.
Paid weeks were down 6.5% and attendance declined 15.9%.
We have been seeing a widening in the gap between attendance and paid weeks.
This is a natural function of the increase in the average tenure in our active base.
In-meeting product sales declined 15% the result of lower attendance.
We continue to look at opportunistic franchise acquisitions.
We completed the purchase of our Alberta-Saskatchewan franchisee late in the first quarter and the impact of all 4 franchise acquisitions completed over the past 6 months contributed 1.3% to NACO revenue in the quarter.
Within B2B the regional business has stabilized and the transition away from Monthly Pass for these smaller accounts is progressing smoothly.
But while we're pleased with our progress the regional At Work business which is not subsidized by employers is also being impacted by the same recruitment dynamics as our overall business.
That said our strategic accounts business which generally in subsidized continues to have stand-out double-digit growth with recent account wins including Chico's and several hospital systems.
Looking forward for Q2 and to the full year we expect continued softness in the NACO meetings business with volume declines in the high-teens for attendance and low- to mid-teens for paid weeks.
Next the U.K.
meetings business.
This market has been our most troubled with significant revenue and volume declines versus prior.
The key factors are the macroeconomy weather and an aggressive local competitor.
First quarter paid weeks declined nearly 18% and attendance was down 26%.
We expect similar trends to persist for the balance of the year.
It goes without saying that these results are not acceptable and we are taking aggressive corrective actions.
Finally the Continental Europe meetings business.
Paid weeks declined 1% in the quarter and attendance fell 11%.
While we are expecting paid weeks to decline mid-single digits and attendance to decline high-single digits for the second quarter and full year macroeconomic conditions are not improving and continue to put heavy pressure on consumers across the continent.
Our other revenues which include franchise commissions and licensing revenue declined 2.7% in Q1 versus the same period last year.
Licensing sales are up offset by lower franchise commissions.
In summary for both Q2 and the full year we expect low- to mid-single digit declines in total company revenue and total company paid weeks.
Now on to some specifics for other key financial metrics for the quarter.
In Q1 gross margin rose 30 basis points to 57.5% well ahead of our earlier expectations.
Pricing mix shift toward our higher-margin online business and cost savings were partially offset by spending on our retail upgrades and deleveraging from weaker volume and lower meeting sizes.
Mix was the primary driver of the gross margin increase as both the meetings and .com businesses saw declines in their gross margins.
Weightwatchers.com showed some increase in its operating costs as it absorbs a higher proportion of technology and call center expenses.
Pressure in the meetings business margin remains a function of softer volume as well as the retail initiative and call center costs.
Meetings pricing as measured by lecture income per paid week was up about 7 -- 1.7% in Q1 benefiting from the 2011 price increases.
At the end of Q1 71% of active Medicare Monthly Pass subscribers were on the higher price.
This was 64% at the end of last year.
Marketing spend was down about $11 million or 9% in the quarter to 24.4% of sales versus 25.9% in the year-ago period.
The decline was driven by a combination of achieving efficiency savings in our digital spend ahead of schedule and the decision made last year not to invest in a men's specific campaign for this year.
The digital spend savings have been highly accretive where we have seen no loss of volume while significantly reducing our spend.
As expected given our decision to not run a men's specific campaign we have seen some erosion in men's sign-up volume in our weightwatchers.com business but we are confident that this was the right financial trade-off for the company.
G&amp;A expense rose 5% in the first quarter or up 100 basis points as a percent of sales to 11.9%.
This was an improvement versus our earlier expectation as we deferred some expenditures while we finalized our cost savings agenda.
As a result of the factors I've just discussed our total company first quarter operating profit was essentially flat and operating margin rose 80 basis points to 21.2%.
I'd now like to update you on our cost savings program and our outlook.
As you know during the quarter we embarked on a comprehensive effort to improve our cost structure to give us better flexibility to fund future growth and also improve margins over time.
I am pleased with early results and the company-wide buy-in which has enabled us to already start seeing some P&amp;L benefits most notably in marketing in the first quarter and several initiatives are also underway across operating expenses and G&amp;A.
We're finding opportunities across the P&amp;L.
Every line item region business and function.
As you might expect some initiatives will provide immediate benefit whereas others will begin to deliver savings next year and beyond.
Some key opportunities identified include: one within marketing mix optimizations inclusive of reductions of unproductive digital spend and production agency fees; two within operating expenses optimizing our meetings network streamlining monthly possible promos supply chain and the call center; and three within G&amp;A reduction and in some cases elimination of professional fees as well as T&amp;D [ph] discipline and tight cost controls for any new large expenditure which help to partially offset the rise in G&amp;A expenses related to our key strategic investments.
While over time we expect margins to benefit from the cost savings agenda during the balance of 2013 we plan to reinvest a good portion of our operating expense and G&amp;A savings back into the business across strategic areas including product innovation B2B healthcare technology and importantly NACO service provider compensation changes areas that we believe are critical to driving our top line growth longer-term.
As such despite the gross margin improvements achieved in the first quarter we expect pressure on our operating expenses for the balance of the year in the order of around 250 basis points per quarter.
Specifically Q2 through Q4 will see a higher rate of gross margin pressure given the soft recruitments in Q1 as well as higher expenses related to service provider compensation.
We now expect gross margin to be down roughly 200 basis points for the full year.
For marketing we now expect our spend to be down at least $40 million versus the prior year given further identified efficiencies.
These savings should be split roughly equally across the quarters.
Turning to G&amp;A.
Before the impact of our cost savings program we had previously expected full year G&amp;A to be up around $40 million as we fund our future growth initiatives.
We now expect the increase to be closer to $20 million as a result of savings we have identified.
Please note that we expect a disproportionate share of the full year increase in G&amp;A to happen in Q2 primarily due to onetime events and a variety of timing issues.
A few of the metrics for the quarter and outlook and then I will turn this back to Dave for concluding remarks.
Our tax rate in the quarter was 38.5% which we continue to expect for the balance of the year.
Foreign currency had a negligible impact on results.
Turning to cash flow.
First quarter cash flow from operations was $115 million versus $105 million a year ago.
For 2013 we expect to spend up to $65 million in CapEx down from around $80 million last year and below our earlier expectation for $70 million as we look for efficiency in all areas across our business.
G&amp;A for the year should be about $45 million.
At the end of the first quarter we had approximately $2.3 billion of net debt.
As we previously reported at the beginning of the second quarter we successfully refinanced our debt taking advantage of the unique market conditions to optimize our long-term capital structure flexibilities.
Given the refinancing our updated interest expense projection for the full year 2013 is now approximately $100 million to $105 million or about $0.15 per share higher than prior guidance.
In the second quarter we will record a onetime charge of about $20 million related to the write-off of prior financing fees.
Post our refinancing our priorities for our cash remain unchanged investing in the business opportunistic franchise acquisitions deleveraging and maintaining our dividend.
I will now turn this back to Dave.
Thanks Nick.
The challenges we're facing have created an opportunity to use them as a catalyst to launch into the next stage of this great company's journey.
Our confidence in our business flows from one simple fact: Weight Watchers works.
The final results from a major end market clinical trial show that those assigned to lose weight with Weight Watchers were 8x more likely to achieve medically significant weight loss than those assigned to self-help.
The same research shows that the combination of following program by attending meetings using mobile applications and our online tools produced superior results than any one component on its own.
This underlying efficacy will make the difference and allows us to not only recover from this current challenge but ultimately return to growth.
As an organization we're focused on and committed to achieving our goals both in the short-term and the long-term.
First we will continue to pursue our tactical efforts to recover financially this year and strengthen the core offering.
As you heard Nick review our cost reduction efforts are proceeding nicely.
Further we will continue to seek tactical opportunities to sharpen our marketing effectiveness over the course of the year.
Second we're rethinking our marketing approach to driving trial and are already planning a new approach to driving improvement in January 2014.
As we've noted on previous calls our goal is to enter each new year with an impactful marketing campaign combined with meaningful product and service news.
Recognizing the limitation of what we brought to the market in January of this year the team is heavily focused on developing product news that will have much more appeal to someone considering joining rather than focusing on somebody already on the journey.
We will then seek to multiply the benefit of this by combining it with a high-impact marketing campaign.
All of the above will be designed to ensure that we enter 2014 with a competitive cost structure and an energizing campaign to get us back in a growth trajectory.
At the same time we're focusing our long-term growth strategy in 2 areas: One more fundamentally innovating our underlying product offering.
As I noted on the last call Weight Watchers brings a combination of assets and capabilities that are unique in their ability to help people achieve their weight loss goals.
Our ability to combine science expert advice face-to-face support and technology is unmatched and difficult to replicate.
However in a category in which consumers often favor the new bright and shiny object we have to work harder to increase the overall appeal of our offering.
Over the past 10 years there have only been 2 ways to participate with Weight Watchers: purely online or in meetings combined with online tools.
We could imagine many permutations that could significantly broaden our appeal and much more clearly differentiate us from any competition we're seeing today.
Ultimately our ability to drive ongoing engagement in weight loss success in a more appealing and inclusive way will create the opportunity to significantly open up our B2C possibilities in a very strategically defensible manner.
We're now underway in this effort.
These kinds of changes have to be executed thoughtfully and deliberately and therefore will take some time to bring to market.
Two continue to pursue the B2B healthcare channel.
We continue to see good growth in our strategic employer business with double-digit revenue growth.
We've also been making good progress in deploying data collection capability in key traveling and network locations so that we can more comprehensively provide individual participant progress data to our B2B customers.
This capability will prove to be increasingly important over the coming years and is an area where we will continue to invest in.
Finally the health services organization we have incubated continues to build and strengthen its capabilities.
At its core Weight Watchers is purely driven by the efforts of the people who work here.
It is a passionate mission-driven organization and nowhere is this more evident than the people who lead our meetings our leaders and receptionists.
It's our responsibility to provide a working environment that is energizing and supportive and uniquely focused on helping them do what is more important than any other goal: helping the members lose weight.
With this in mind we've undertaken a comprehensive effort to improve the quality of their jobs and the compensation.
While we're aggressively seeking cost savings opportunities throughout the organization we will be investing back into a new compensation system that will be rolled out over the course of this year beginning in late May.
The challenge for this organization is to be efficient so that we can invest where it counts.
I cannot imagine a more important place to invest that in the people that deliver the support that our members need.
Executing against our ambitious plans will require focused prioritization rigor.
It will require energized leadership in a culture of success and entrepreneurship.
It starts at the top.
And in this light I'm thrilled with the team that we're building.
Nick joined us in late August and Jim Chambers our president and COO joined us in early January.
They have both exceeded all expectations in how quickly they've had an impact on the company and its direction.
Their combination of strategic insight operational focus consumer orientation and leadership has been impressive to witness.
Around that we will be elevating responsibility for up-and-coming high-potential executives as well as recruiting several new members of the management team.
This new team will bring a renewed sense of energy and focus necessary to carry this company forward into the next 50 years.
As we now stand at this inflection point we have a unique opportunity to both create substantial shareholder value and to achieve a critical societal mission.
Despite all the near-term challenges we face I cannot imagine a more exciting time for this company moving forward.
Moving on to 2013 earnings guidance.
With all the forecast estimates on the top and cost lines that Nick just shared we're narrowing our guidance range providing full year EPS range of $3.60 to $3.90 per share which now includes approximately $0.15 impact of higher interest expense associated with the refinancing but excludes the onetime charge related to the write-off of prior financing fees.
At this time operator I would like to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Glen Santangelo from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes David I was just kind of curious.
When you guys reported in mid-February you gave some very conservative guidance with respect to NACO in terms of the paid weeks.
And obviously you guys did a better job in this quarter than I guess you were sort of forecasting.
I'm kind of curious like in the second half of the quarter maybe you can drill that divergence based on what you saw that time.
And then sort of as a follow-up to that we're seeing an increase in divergence between paid meetings and -- I'm sorry paid weeks and attendance.
And Nick touched on it a little bit but I was wondering if you could elaborate on that trend and what you're expecting going forward.
I'd be happy to.
So the -- if you look at the pattern of enrollments that happened over the first 3 months of the year effectively it took an interesting but somewhat different shape from what we're typically used to seeing.
And so I'll try to take you through kind of a quick tour of what that shape looked like in terms of enrollments and sign-ups.
As I think I had mentioned on the last call the first week when the campaign fully got started off was actually pretty strong for us particularly in the online business.
And then we saw sort of unexpected drops in terms of overall levels of enrollment and recruitment activity as we were going through January into the first week of February.
If anything what we saw as we were getting toward the end of February and then moving back into March is we saw a nice bit of stabilization.
It still wasn't where we would have liked it to have been but it definitely got a little bit better than what we were expecting could be the case.
And so I think that led to some of the improvements in terms of what we were ultimately able to see from paid week perspective.
To get to your second question in terms of the divergence between paid weeks and attendances the way to think about that is that particularly if you go through a period in which enrollments might be softer is to keep in mind that when somebody starts with us that they're going to be attending virtually every meeting.
So that if you have a high level of enrollments you're going to see a high level of attendances that follow that.
And so -- and during those times paid weeks and attendances will match pretty closely.
On the other hand if the average tenure of somebody in our active base increases versus what it looked like the previous year what you'll see is paid weeks holding up better than attendances and that's effectively what's happening right now.
I think that's actually right Dave.
And look Glen the only thing I'd add versus our expectations going into the quarter look total revenue was relatively flat versus our expectation.
For me a key driver our weightwatchers.com paid week growth at 10% was better than our mid- to high-single digits expectation.
Research Division</strong> Nick if I could just ask one follow-up.
I'm just kind of curious.
I mean it sounds like your initial commentary around the spring campaign is it's sort of yielding marginal results.
And I don't want to put words in your mouth but it kind of sounds like that that's not going to be enough to sort of solve your problems.
And it kind of feels like your doing a great job on the cost side but what's the risk as you go out there and search for new members that you're cutting too deep and basically making the back half of the year even more difficult than it needs to be? And how do you sort of balance between cutting your marketing spend which is contradictory to trying to drive new member growth? Yes so here's a few points on that.
First off to your point in terms of a spring campaign as we noted on the call we don't have an anticipation that having the creative we currently have which we do think is better and fresher and everything else that that by itself is going to be sufficient for turning around any trend.
And more specifically what's been pretty typically the case for us is that really it's a combination of advertising creative and news product program service that those things working together is typically what's necessary to change the trajectory of the business trends.
Now to your second point on the way we're approaching costs with respect to the marketing spend and potential knock-on effects of volume.
Keep in mind when we talk about reducing marketing spend we're talking almost purely about 2 areas of savings: One is the decision we made this year for this year not to run a dedicated men's campaign.
That's about half.
And the other is the decision we made this year to take a fresh look at the way we're doing digital advertising in a way where we would be looking for efficiencies.
On the first the men's campaign to be clear when we reduce that that advertising pressure there are sign-ups and enrollment activities that will drop off correspondingly with that but our view is that when we look at the cost per acquisition in the cycle economics of those acquisitions that it was a financially prudent move for us to make this serious.
So we're comfortable that the financial trade-off was the right one to make.
Second if you look at the digital side what we -- what -- the conclusion we're increasingly coming to is that -- again the point I would make with digital advertising is that there's a presumption for years that if somebody merely saw a banner ad in the way that the digital agencies do a lot of their analytics metrics if somebody saw a digital banner and then 2 days later they signed up that the digital banner would get credit for it the banner will get credit for it and then you would continue advertising against that banner ad.
We increasingly became skeptical that this was still true.
And so we began a series of tests that ultimately led us to the conclusion that we could significantly tighten up and optimize our digital advertising with literally no lost volume.
And so far that's actually what we found is that by the reductions we've made in digital advertising spend by optimizations has resulted in virtually no loss of volume.
So it's almost purely profit-accretive.
In other words that reduction in digital advertising spend is not having any impact on our ability to recruit people in.
For the duration of the year these are going to be that types of things that are going to be different.
It's going to be a somewhat of a different advertising strategy in summer which is typically a low-enrollment period anyway in addition to not having a men's campaign in fall.
Other than that throughout the course of the year there's really no change other than the reduction in the digital advertising.
And in that sense what we have no interest in doing is pulling back on any of the things that we typically do to bring in our core market either on the meeting business or online business.
It was much more of a pre-calculated strategy that we were taking for tightening up how we do things from an advertising point of view.
The next question is from Brian Wang from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just -- actually just a first question is just a follow-up on that last question.
I think the original target for marketing decline and marketing savings was about $25 million and now it's I believe $40 million is what you said.
[indiscernible] That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess where is that incremental cost saving come from? Is that all on the digital side because you saw it wasn't really having an impact on traffic? Yes.
Hey Brian Nick.
You're absolutely right.
That's primarily driven by these digital spend efficiencies.
And look we spent $344 million in 2012.
The high watermark of 19% of sales.
With these new levels of reductions we'll still be spending over $300 million of marketing in 2013 which is still above 2011 levels.
So we couldn't stress more that we can make these marketing efficiencies while still spending everywhere we need to sensibly maximize our profitable top line.
To build on Nick's point and particularly in terms of what's different on this forecast versus the previous forecast of marketing savings.
On the digital side it was once we had seen the results coming in from the testing we're doing gave us greater comfort that we could roll more of those savings throughout the U.S.
as well as apply the same types of savings to our international markets.
And so as we became more comfortable that that was actually -- we're going to be able to do that without a loss of volume we became -- that's one of the reasons why we're able to more confidently put forward the full amount of potential savings as opposed to what we had before.
I think that's right.
Quite frankly I was pleasantly surprised how quickly our team could react and implement these results.
Obviously you've seen our first quarter P&amp;L was part of what drove P&amp;L to be -- the Q1 P&amp;L to be better than our earlier expectation.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then just shifting gears a little bit I guess to the NACO paid weeks or even subscriber base.
I think you said at the beginning of the year you sort of had decline at I think it was 10% whole.
And I guess by the end of the -- I guess for the average for the quarter your -- your paid weeks was down 6.5%.
So it looks like you sort of did -- you kind of talked about the cadence of trends throughout the quarter.
Can you I guess please talk a little bit about where the subscriber base stood at the beginning of the second quarter and how that's been relative to the same time last year? We typically haven't provided quarter-by-quarter points of view in terms of subscriber base.
And the reason is is that what we have right now is obviously the pay-as-you-go business the Monthly Pass business.
And what we have done at the end of this year is we described an ad hoc analysis that actually come to combine the 2 that shows sort of how big our overall customer base was down.
We didn't go through the same process in terms of doing it for this year.
However I think what you can expect to see is consistent with the volume forecast that Nick provided earlier in his section that is a combination -- in terms of paid weeks outlook for example and NACO for the rest of the year Q2 and full year that is a combination of both what we're seeing in terms of the starting customer base in Q2 as well as the impact of the enrollment trends that we're now forecasting throughout the rest of the year.
Yes.
And I think that's absolutely right.
I think that's how you see the continuation of the tough recruitment outlook in our revenue outlook for NACO.
And frankly that's a key driver of our gross margin outlook also with the impact of those lower-volumes growth throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Then just one last one.
Can you please talk a little bit about more -- a little bit more about the B2B? I guess you obviously have been investing in it for a couple of years now.
I guess particularly what you're investing in? I think last quarter you might have mentioned the results are computed and sort of the data collection-type items but I guess if can you give a little bit more specific about what you're spending -- how much you're spending and what you're spending it on please? We're not ready to give a detailed breakout of what those things are but let me describe thematically what we're spending on which is 2 areas in the B2B space.
It's principally 2 areas.
One is the -- this health services organization which is a collection of professionals largely recruited from health services companies account management project management technical expertise marketing folks people like that.
We're virtually building a company within a company if you will.
And so part of what we've been adding therefore is sort of headcount associated with that and that's going to be showing up in the G&amp;A line.
In addition and ultimately this is going to be the biggest area of investment is going to be the data collection which is the outfitting of service providers with laptop computers tablets whatever the choice ultimately is going to be to allow them to do real-time data capture at point of weigh-in.
We have been gradually scaling that effort up.
A lot of the investment for that is going to be continuing to build somewhat in the second half with an eye toward probably a more aggressive rollout as we get into 2014 and maybe a little bit beyond.
But that's -- those are really the primary areas of investment.
While we've been doing that as you heard us mention what's been good particularly in terms of the health services organizational investment is that that's been backed against the strategic sales revenue channel that we've now been bringing in which has been growing sort of nice double-digit revenue as we've been going into this year.
The next question is from Jerry Herman from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just Nick -- or if I could follow-up on that question and maybe more color.
Are you guys prepared to talk about sort of the client metrics number of clients? You mentioned 2 additional today and is that going to be normal course? But maybe just some color in terms of where you are and maybe what the potential is in that existing client base.
Let me first take a note which is I think probably what would be a good idea for us to do is actually to go back and think through what might be some way to dimensionalize the opportunity so that we could share that with the investment community on a go-forward basis.
And we typically provide a couple names just to give color but obviously we've brought in more than 2 accounts.
In fact it was a number.
If you look though at places where -- sections of the economy where we've been having particularly good early progress some of the ones that come to mind first and foremost have been frankly health-based companies.
So that's health systems hospital networks those types of organizations as well for example health insurance companies pharma companies others all on behalf of their employees.
And that's been particularly important for us in a number of different dimensions.
First off it's good business.
These are nice accounts for us to bring in.
Secondly it is allowing us to begin building an ongoing working relationship with some of the nation's leading health companies that we're going to look to leverage as we go into future years as we continue to build out our healthcare strategy.
And so I think -- so that -- hopefully that gives you a little bit of flavor.
And we've also been making good progress with municipalities.
And then it's been -- cities.
Then it's been sort of a hodgepodge kind of across various industries retail manufacturing back offices call centers things like that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then you talked about compensation to the leaders and I guess I interpreted those comments as you're going to pay more money.
And I guess a two-part question.
Number one is does that reflect some competitiveness in the market for those individuals? And number two is it also contemplated in the gross margin in the guidance you guys gave? To answer your second question first yes.
It is contemplated in the gross margin guidance we gave.
To answer your first question this has actually been something that's long been in the making.
And if I kind of go back to what we've been doing over the past 4 to 5 years is we've been looking to modernize and enhance the entirety of the foundation that stands behind our group support product.
And that started with the program itself and that was modernizing from Points to PointPlus now 360.
Then went into modernizing our retail network and moving into better locations and taking advantage of everything we're able to gain from a weak economy in terms of good rents and getting better retail analytics and all those good things.
It's been now increasingly happening in terms of automating point of sale with the idea of providing a more modern experience for members as well as making life administratively easier for our service providers.
And finally it is then our recognizing that we frankly have been putting too much burden in terms of administrative duties on our service providers.
And we have a compensation system that we know that over the past couple of decades really hasn't changed much.
And frankly in many respects was starting to feel increasingly antiquated difficult to understand not transparent and not energizing.
So our view was it was now time for us to pick a comprehensive effort across the nature of the job and the manner in which we compensate our service providers so that we could further energize them so that the output of all this stuff is going to be beautiful meetings with a great program with automated data capture at point of sale and an incredibly energetic and enthusiastic group of service providers delivering the service.
And that that was ultimately going to be crucial for us in terms of our expectations in driving the kind of engagement we wanted to do.
So it was more about getting people focused fired up feeling supported than frankly anything else.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could sneak just a quick one and an important one in for Nick.
Nick can you quantify the run rate savings on the cost reduction programs and how much will be realized this year? Look I tell you -- good question.
Now I will tell you up front I've been pleased by the early signs we're seeing from the activities and that you can hear it as a holistic approach marketing operating expenses and G&amp;A.
I view this as a -- it's a multi-year effort about prioritization and removing complexity in addition to more cost-cutting.
So as you can imagine there are a lot of moving parts.
And frankly as you heard us say our key goal here is to support the long-term imperative of achieving sustainable top line growth.
To come down to how big this could be if you think of us in 2012 as a $1.8 billion revenue business with $500 million of OI.
We have a $1.3 billion cost sand box to play in if you will.
Given our need to invest to fuel growth I personally think we probably need to achieve somewhere in the region of up to $100 million of annual gross savings to support our long-term strategy.
That's my current view and I'm sure we'll find that over time as we get into some of these longer-term initiatives.
Your next question is from Chris Ferrara from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Guys I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the online business.
And I guess can you describe what the shift has been like from I guess sitting behind your computer terminal online on the Internet as opposed to mobile? To what extent has the usage of online in Weight Watchers shifted from sort of behind the desk behind a computer to mobile apps? It's obviously a very salient question Chris which is I think if anything we have been -- and frankly I think the majority of the functioning economy has been surprised by the rate of shift of computing happening kind of at a desktop on the computer and on the traditional Internet to smartphone devices tablets those types of things.
And that's certainly what we've seen in usage of our own product.
I don't have any figures right off the top of my head to share with you but I would tell you we've seen a pretty significant increase for example in the portion of foods that are being tracked on apps as opposed to on the website.
And frankly much faster than what we expected to see.
And I think sort of -- that's obviously heavy in the backdrop in terms of some of the other competitive trends we're seeing in the market that we now are sort of moving quickly to respond to and in terms of adjusting the -- our product offering the way strategically we're approaching this business.
Research Division</strong> And is -- I mean is that the primary issue here?  And do you -- I mean does the online business become commoditized? Like what portion of the functionality advantage that Weight Watchers Online has traditionally enjoyed relative to another online service is eroded when it becomes mobile as opposed to behind the desk? No I don't think it does.
Not in the long term.
I mean and I -- so I think there's -- so part of this is there's a near-term issue as well as I think opportunities that are emerging.
Let me first off spend a little -- just a quick second talking about kind of what I see in terms of the emergence of kind of the sort of morass of technology that has sort of encroached into the market at just an unprecedented pace.
And what I would -- the way I would characterize it is in devices as opposed to sort of what I'll call tangential apps as opposed to apps that I think try to offer something that's much -- feels much more directly akin to Weight Watchers.
So the devices of course I'm talking about things like scales activity monitors fuel bands [ph] [indiscernible] all that kind of good stuff.
The middle group of apps might be really interesting work being done in terms of dining out companion and ways of sort of searching for healthy restaurants and those types of things.
And then the sort of more direct that feel like sort of closer in substitutes would obviously be the Lose It!s and MyFitnessPals and those types of applications.
The first 2 groups we see a tremendous opportunity which we have not yet taken advantage of to co-op them into what our offering to add value to our offering to make Weight Watchers Online that much more compelling.
And effectively the strategy was that it was really going to be a much more aggressive approach in terms of pushing out an open API of strategy and that's something that we're working on right now as a way of sort of leveraging other people's technology efforts to add value to our offering.
In terms of kind of the core fundamental value proposition to consumers that fit with the middle Weight Watchers Online I kind of go back to this: that when you talk to people who do Weight Watchers Online they're following a program and the technology merely makes it easier and more convenient and more fun for them to follow that program.
And it's the combination of those things that ultimately provides the meaningful value that keeps people engaged once they start doing and keeps them engaged for a long time because the only thing that matters in weight management is extended ongoing engagement is the only thing that leads to the weight loss which that is the only value proposition that wins in the long term.
I think the question to ask with a lot of these other sort of offerings that are coming up is that what we're seeing is that our -- and anecdotally that there are some people who are going to be hardcore users and some of these apps we're going to have good success with it.
But frankly we believe that the majority of people that are using them are probably using them frankly for 1 to 2 weeks and then not using them.
Now the implication of that is it creates near-term pressure on trials because effectively that customer has been sort of taken out of the market if you will.
But to the extent that the idea of counting calories which is effectively what you're doing if you're doing for example MyFitnessPal starts to feel tedious and doesn't really recognize that calories are created equally and all those types of things that effectively we would expect interest in those things to decline over time.
I think that the opportunity for Weight Watchers to avoid that kind of commoditization is to continue focusing on what is at the core of us which is the 50 years of accumulated IP science the trust in the brand everything else.
Build on those things more aggressively attach technology both technology we develop but also significantly technology developed by others in a way that creates a value proposition that is considerably superior to what you're going to get from any one of these individual little apps that's coming out.
The next question is from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to talk a little bit about the gross margin cadence throughout the year and also the revenue growth cadence just so we can get a better handle in terms of the earnings flow.
If we look at the gross margin in order to get to your full year guidance it looks like the balance of the year each individual quarter needs to be down about 300 basis points or so on average.
So can you talk a little bit about -- is that just a hockey stick from here and we'll see a straight line across the year? Or is there some sort of sequential flow to that? Yes I think -- we've guided that gross margin will be down 250 in each quarter Q2 through Q4 leading to 200 basis points drop for the year.
Versus the first quarter what's changing.
The volume impact of the disappointing recruitment environment in Q1 is frankly the majority of that.
And then further as you can imagine with the high gross margin .com business growing slower than it has we have less of a mix benefit going through into those ongoing quarters also.
Finally as we've discussed here our guidance implies and incorporates investment bank into the business with the spend on service provider compensation technology and in our retail rollout more than offsetting efficiencies.
I do want to stress however our cost savings initiatives as they steam forward and focus on efficiencies across every line item of the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize for being a pain on this.
But if I used the 250 over the balance of the year I end up with something more like a 175 type of number.
Is that sort of within the range that you're thinking? I'm comfortable with our guidance but obviously it depends on where you're putting your revenue for example within the range that we've given.
But they'll certainly come forward the 200 drop guidance for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any dramatic differences in terms of the revenue numbers as we go through the quarters over the balance of the year? Look I think the shape of the P&amp;L has been guided where we're comfortable with on revenue.
I think the key thing I'd point out that we highlighted that we expect decelerating growth each quarter in the .com paid weeks growth.
And I think that's the biggest change that I would like to draw your attention to.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr.
David Kirchhoff.
In summary while the near-term is challenging we've experienced similar challenges in the past and we've overcome them each time.
I look forward to speaking with you again at our next quarterly earnings release.
Thank you.
The conference has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to Weight Watchers International Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded today August 1 2013.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Lori Scherwin of Weight Watchers International.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our newly appointed President and Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the second quarter financial results of fiscal 2013.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
I'm happy to be with you on the call today and look forward to meeting you in due course.
I've enjoyed partnering with Dave since I joined this January and would like to congratulate him on his long-standing contributions to the company and wish him all the best.
His leadership at the company will be missed and we value the seeds he has planted for our growth agenda.
I'm also honored by the Board's confidence in my ability and I'm thrilled by the opportunity to lead this company forward with a talented team by my side.
I trust that you've seen our earnings announcement.
Current results and the near-term outlook which Nick will walk you through in more detail fall short of our aspirations.
While I am proud of the progress the team has made on the cost front we need to be more aggressive and more innovative in our efforts to drive recruitment and top line results in what is proving to be a very challenging operating environment.
While we're still evaluating elements of our long-term strategic plan which we'll be prepared to share at the November 6 Strategic Outlook Investor Day I'm pleased to have this opportunity to discuss my early observations with you today.
Appreciating I have been at the company for a little over 6 months and I'm brand-new to this role I will not be sharing a detailed strategy blueprint on this call but look forward to doing so in November.
I'd like to start by sharing some perspective on my background and relevant experience.
I've spent my entire career in or supporting consumer facing businesses.
Although nearly half my experience has been in general management I worked in multiple functions from marketing to operations to corporate planning and even spent a couple of years as Head of Information Technology a while back.
I've had the privilege of leading some wonderful organizations in a variety of segments from food to beverages to market information services.
I've been accountable for developing winning strategies and driving execution for some of the world's largest and best-known brands including OREO Trident and Remy Martin.
For most of those years I have worked in companies that were dependent on large field organizations and I'm a deep believer in the power and strategic potential of an aligned and well-supported field-centric model.
I joined Weight Watchers for 2 principal reasons: mission and business potential.
I have a personal alignment with the mission of taking the best science has to offer and translating it into something that works for consumers in their daily lives and I believe deeply in the potential of this company and the power of the Weight Watchers brand.
6 months in my alignment with the mission and belief in the potential of the business are even stronger now.
I also want to make a few comments on my high-level learnings today.
Despite the current tough climate I've enjoyed my time at Weight Watchers and I'm encouraged by the prospects to build the business going forward.
Over the last 6 months we've focused on 3 things: dealing with our near-term performance defining our strategic agenda and strengthening our organization.
Nick will take you through our current performance as well as our projections but to repeat my earlier comments we are pleased with the focus we have brought to our cost agenda and are working hard to set the stage for future top line growth.
While our strategic assessment is not yet complete I've spent enough time with the business to understand the current situation and broad themes that the team needs to focus on to deliver on our potential.
Let me share my initial observations in 3 key areas.
First there are compelling reasons to believe in the existing core consumer business.
Obesity is unfortunately a large and growing issue globally but fortunately one that is addressable.
Our program works and has been validated by over 80 clinical studies to date fortifying our position as the world's leading provider of weight management solutions.
In addition to the scientific support of our program the potential of our core consumer business is bolstered by the strength of our brand our very large community of Weight Watchers members and our incredibly talented service providers in the field.
That said there are things we need to do to more fully capitalize on these assets places where we need to get better stronger and fill capability gaps to more consistently deliver on consumer needs and to respond more nimbly to opportunities in the marketplace.
Our marketing and engagement with consumers must continue to evolve.
We need to more aggressively innovate and evolve our offerings to improve the relevancy and expand their consumer reach.
As such over the past several months one of my priorities has been to further immerse the team in the understanding of the consumer in our category both members and nonmembers.
We believe there is an opportunity to reimagine our core offering to better deliver on what consumers need and to evolve our brand to become even more inclusive.
Second there are also reasons to believe in the B2B healthcare opportunity.
This is a great story which you have heard much about on prior calls.
I won't repeat everything you've heard in the past but feel that it is important for me to say that the efficacy of our program coupled with strong interest we are seeing today in the marketplace strengthen my belief that we can emerge as a leader in this space.
But to enable this business to realize its full potential we need to move from strategic evaluation mode to implementation.
What is new is that we are now committing resources to this implementation with a focus on building out our capabilities in technology and people.
We will share more of the blueprint and milestones for B2B health care with you in November.
The third area of observations I want to share relate to our organization.
I'm a firm believer in the principle that structure follows strategy.
While I've indicated that we are still finalizing elements of our strategy I've developed enough confidence in key strategic directions to implement some high-level structural changes.
As you heard referenced in our last quarterly call I've concluded that running our businesses in an integrated fashion not as separate .com and meetings businesses can release tremendous value allowing us to better innovate against consumer needs and leverage our significant assets.
Accordingly I will be realigning our business to eliminate the boundary between the meetings and online divisions.
In the future this means that the businesses will be managed by the regions such that the GMs and local business leaders will have clear accountability for the entire region performance including the accountability for all consumers across all product offerings.
In addition we have appointed Catherine Ulrich to the newly created position of Global Chief Product Officer to lead the integration of our offerings into a seamless set of choices for consumers.
We've also created a separate business unit for health solutions led by Colin Watts to ensure the appropriate focus on implementation and execution of our B2B health care strategy.
We still have a few key positions we're working to fill most notably a Head of our North America business and a Chief Technology Officer but we are focused on filling these positions with the best talent rather than the fastest solution.
My belief in our core consumer business our deliberate shift towards implementation mode on our health care strategy and the opportunity to realign and re-energize our organization are meant to give you a flavor of where I see potential.
Again we will expand on these opportunities and others at our November Strategy Day but it is important to note that while we have much more to do we are up to the task.
I'm excited for the challenge and confident that we have the fundamental potential and many of the building blocks in place to enable a meaningful transformation and sustainable long-term growth.
I will now turn this over to Nick to discuss the second quarter results and to talk about the implications of our 2013 trends for 2014.
As Nick will explain the recruiting challenges we have been facing this year mean that we will be starting 2014 with a lower active member base than we did in 2013.
Given the nature of our business we expect our revenue and earnings base will be lower next year.
Nick? Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
The second quarter contains similar themes to the first quarter namely: a very challenging recruiting environment partially mitigated by good progress on our cost agenda.
Total campaign revenue declined 4% on a constant currency basis with total paid weeks down 2.5%.
We had disappointing top line trends across both the meetings business and weightwatchers.com.
Operating income was essentially flat versus the prior year with tight cost control offsetting our revenue decline.
Reported Q2 EPS was $1.15 excluding a $21.7 million or a $0.24 per share onetime charge related to the write-off of fees triggered by our Q2 refinancing.
Q2 EPS was $1.39 versus $1.36 a year ago.
The key challenge for our business remains attracting new members.
This has been the case in meetings for some time and during the quarter we experienced heightened pressure in our weightwatchers.com business.
While our spring ad campaigns provided some early buzz the benefit was short-lived.
Our prior forecast had assumed the recruitment trend would improve but the opposite has transpired.
Specifically second quarter recruitment missed our going-in expectations for both meetings and online and was significantly negative for the quarter in both segments.
We now expect these trends to continue for the remainder of this year.
I'll now provide details of each segment's second quarter performance versus prior as well as outline our updated volume output.
Starting with weightwatchers.com.
While second quarter Internet revenues grew approximately 6.6% and paid weeks rose 4.4% sign-ups were negative in our English-speaking markets resulting in end-of-period active subscribers rising only 1.4% versus the prior year.
Importantly while we are challenged in finding new subscribers retention remains unchanged at 9 months which indicates no change in satisfaction with our weightwatchers.com offering among current subscribers.
Given the weak sign-up trend we now expect weightwatchers.com paid weeks for the back half of the year to decline in the mid-single digit range.
Within the meetings business total NACO revenue in the second quarter declined 4.7% versus the prior year.
Paid weeks were down 10% and attendance declined 14.5%.
In-meeting product sales declined 8.9% the result of lower attendance as product sales per attendee were up 6.6%.
The impact of 4 franchise acquisitions completed between September and March contributed 2.2% to NACO meetings revenue in the quarter.
In July post-Q2 close we completed the purchase of 3 additional franchise territories: the Columbus region for $23.5 million West Virginia region for $16 million and Reno for $4 million.
As a result of the 7 acquisitions we have done over the past year North America is now about 87% company-owned.
Within B2B the strategic business continues to perform well with revenue up nearly 30% in Q2 and we see significant growth potential for this business.
The regional business which recall is not subsidized by employers continues to be impacted by the same recruitment dynamics as our overall business and sales were down about 1%.
For the second half of the year we expect continued softness in the NACO meetings business with volume declines in the mid to high teens for both attendance and paid weeks.
Next the U.K.
meetings business.
This market has been our most troubled with significant revenue and volume declines versus prior.
The key factor remains an aggressive local competitor.
Note that over the past few weeks both Jim and I have been to the U.K.
to assess the situation firsthand and the team is aggressively focused on what it will take to reverse the recent trend.
We have appointed Jeanine Lemmens who previously led the turnaround of our Benelux operations and restored that region to growth to lead the U.K.
effort.
Second quarter U.K.
paid weeks declined 19% and attendance was down approximately 20%.
We expect mid- to high-20s decline in both paid weeks and attendances for the balance of the year.
Finally the Continental Europe meetings business.
Paid weeks declined 1.6% in the quarter and attendance fell 6.7%.
While we continue to benefit from a higher incoming actives base from prior year enrollments are challenged in light of the broader macro backdrop in that region.
Looking forward we expect the back half of the year to be slightly softer than the first half.
Our other revenues which include franchise commissions and licensing revenue declined 11% in Q2 versus the same period last year.
Licensing sales were down in absolute terms but up about 2% excluding a prior year onetime benefit from a vendor termination.
In summary we expect total company year-over-year revenue to decline by low double digits in the second half and high single digits for the full year.
For the full year we expect total meetings revenue to be down low- to mid-teens and online to be roughly flat.
For total company paid weeks we expect the second half to be down high-single digits and down mid- to high-single digits for the year.
On to some specifics for our other key financial metrics for the quarter.
In Q2 gross margin was down 70 basis points to 59.8%.
This was better than our expectation with mix and cost savings being the primary drivers.
Relative to the prior year the 70 basis point decline was the function of mix and pricing benefits more than offset by a lower meeting average coupled with pressure on product costs our retail upgrades and the initial impact from our U.S.
service provider compensation changes.
Note that both the meetings and the weightwatchers.com segments saw declines in their gross margins though the majority of the weightwatchers.com decline is attributed to a change in managerial cost allocations as it now absorbs the higher proportion of technology and call center expenses versus the prior year.
Meetings pricing is measured by lecture income per paid week was up about 3.9% in Q2 still benefiting from the 2011 price increases.
This metric also benefited from the fact that last year we ran a BOGO in the spring in NACO while this year we did not.
Although we beat our gross margin forecast in Q2 as well as in Q1 we don't expect to beat our forecast for the remainder of the year.
We expect our gross margin to be down significantly in the second half due to a combination of further operating de-leverage from a weaker top line and sent-up [ph] spends related to our U.S.
service provider compensation initiative noting that over 75% of this 2013 spend will occur in the second half.
There will also be less benefit mix as the weightwatchers.com business' top line slows.
We expect gross margin for the full year to be down about 150 basis points versus prior year with Q4 worse than Q3 in the second half.
Marketing spend was down about $18 million or 22% in the quarter to 14.1% of sales versus 17.3% in the year-ago period.
The decline was driven largely by the elimination of inefficient dish-off [ph] spend and the lack of a men's-specific campaign in the U.S.
in 2013.
For the full year we now expect marketing spend to be down by up to $50 million versus 2012 a further savings versus our prior guidance of a $40 million decline.
G&amp;A expense rose 4% in Q2 or up 100 basis points as a percent of sales to 12.6%.
This is an improvement versus our earlier expectation on the heels of better savings some deferral of investments and some onetime favorable items namely lower stock compensation expense.
We had previously guided you that the full year increase in G&amp;A would be about $20 million.
We now expect a year-over-year increase of no more than $15 million benefiting from better cost savings.
As a result of the factors I've just discussed our total company Q2 operating profit was essentially flat and operating margin rose 140 basis points to 33.1%.
A few other metrics for the quarter.
Our tax rate in the quarter was 38.5% which we continue to expect for the balance of the year.
Foreign currency had a negligible impact on results.
Turning to cash flow.
Future cash flow operations was $64 million versus $76 million a year ago but for 2013 we expect operating cash flow in the $300 million range and expect to spend up to $65 million in CapEx while we expect D&amp;A to be about $45 million.
Turning to 2013 guidance.
Given the top line environment and our belief that this will not moderate for the remainder of the year we are adjusting our EPS range for 2013 to $3.55 to $3.70 versus the prior range of $3.60 to $3.90.
We acknowledge we came in ahead of our Q2 expectations and are pleased with the progress that we're making on the cost side to help defray the volume picture.
That said the impact of weaker enrollments really starts to flow through to the P&amp;L in the back half of the year and into 2014.
Before we open it up for questions I'd like to talk about 2014 and to detail why we believe we will deliver lower profits and EPS next year.
We normally don't discuss full year guidance until much later and have yet to launch our formal budgeting process but given the 2013 recruitment reality we believe we have enough visibility to make some general observations.
We are very focused on changing our recruitment trajectory in the January 2014 winter diet season and are excited about what we are going to bring to market.
That said regardless of the success of our recruitment drive the reality is that we will have a much lower actives base at the start of 2014 than we had at the start of 2013.
More specifically for 2014 we expect the meetings actives base will be even lower than it was at the start of this year down in the mid-teens range and we expect that we will also have a lower starting base in online in the range of low- to mid-single digits negative.
This is unlike 2013 where we entered the year with a higher starting actives base in online that partially offset the drag from the lower active meetings member base.
Irrespective of 2014 recruitments the financial impact of our lower 2014 starting membership base is an approximately $50 million headwind on operating profit for the year.
One other factor to consider for 2014.
As we look ahead to a potentially rising interest rate environment we have entered into a $1.5 billion interest rate swap to manage our risk on our floating-rate debt.
The swaps will kick in in the first quarter of 2014 when our current swap matures.
It will lock in interest rates and as a result approximately 60% of our debt will be at a fixed rate.
While this is a prudent risk management step to take overall interest expense will increase by about $14 million in 2014 relative to 2013.
Rest assured that as we plan for 2014 we will continue to hit costs hard.
In addition to the marketing savings which are more easily seen in the P&amp;L a few other examples of what we are working on include tight controls of discretionary spend consolidation of vendors and consultants and early work on supply chain initiatives.
We've saved over $20 million year-to-date and expect us to end 2013 having generated in the neighborhood of $50 million in gross savings with progress from every region and functional area.
The response from the Weight Watcher team has been tremendous and Jim and I see further efficiency opportunities to explore but our broad assumption is that a substantial portion of these incremental savings will likely be used to fund the increase in U.S.
service provider compensation and our future growth initiatives.
While we have yet to build our 2014 plan the factors we've discussed represent a 2014 pretax earnings drag of $64 million.
This is the expected earnings base onto which we'll layer our 2014 volume plan.
We look forward to sharing more details behind our strategic plans at our Fall Investor Day which Jim indicated will be held on November 6.
More details will be forthcoming but please hold the date.
We would like to open this up to your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] First question is from Glen Santangelo from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Jim and Nick I'm kind of curious.
Nick when you gave guidance at the beginning of the year you sort of laid out your expectations for sort of paid weeks as well as the online business and sort of looking at the first 2 quarters of results I mean you did reasonably well compared to that initial guidance.
And it just seems like the numbers are really falling off a cliff in the back half of the year and yet you're sort of suggesting that listen there's nothing in the next 5 months we can do to prop up any type of utilization.
And it almost seems like you've given up to some extent on the 2014 marketing campaign.
And so I'm just trying to figure out relative to what happened in the first half why the declines are so steep in the second half and why do you have so little confidence in your ability to sort of influence your utilization with a marketing campaign in 2014.
Let me assure you we're certainly not giving up and the whole team is applying the same intense focus on our commercial initiatives as we are on our cost savings initiatives.
What you're seeing in the second half of the year is the natural flow through of what has been a weak recruitment environment a tough start to the year flowing through into paid weeks and revenues in the back half of the year.
Since we last gave guidance what we've seen is a deteriorating trend in recruitments particularly on our online business and we feel that some of that is driven by the continued sudden explosion of interest in free apps and activity monitors.
Of course we're very focused on making 2013 as good as it can be that's why we reacted nimbly to put new advertising in place in the United States with Ana Gasteyer that's why we're very focused on preparing for our fall campaign.
But realistically as you know Glen in our business the big opportunity to change the trajectory of the business is in the winter diet season.
So frankly what you're seeing in our second quarter forecast second half forecast more than anything is the natural math if you will of the very tough recruitment environment and one which got harder since the last time we spoke flowing through to back half revenue.
Research Division</strong> Jim maybe as a follow-up to that I mean I'm sure you don't want to share your 2014 marketing plans with us but I mean is it your anticipation in the back half of the year embedded within those expenses you're going to ramp up to some extent the marketing expenses for January 1? And at this point I mean even if you don't want to share the details does the company have a plan in terms of its marketing strategy for January or is it a little bit too early in the process for that? Well I will pick up on your reference that I won't share too many details about our commercial plans for obvious reasons.
But to repeat one portion of what Nick said you should absolutely take away that we are intensely focused on improving our commercial operations and particularly consumer activation.
With respect to January we do have a plan and we do have a consumer activation plan that we feel excited about.
We think it's rooted in something that our consumers will respond to and we're going to pursue it aggressively.
One thing I want to stress Glen as we look to '14 we've discussed that the issue with free apps is they're taking trial out of the market.
We view that as a temporary phenomenon because we know that our program works.
We believe as Jim has said in the science behind our program.
And frankly we know that when we get our program news and our marketing execution right wonderful things can happen to this business.
So we haven't given any guidance today on what we think our '14 recruitment outlook will be but all we're talking about is the starting actives hole that we face as a result of the '13 recruitment environment.
We are very focused on driving recruitments in this business.
The next question is from Jerry Herman from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First question I sense that there's a growing concern about online as you're talking through this conference call.
Given the acceleration or deceleration I should say and negative comps in sign-ups do you feel now that there's something that structurally has changed? In other words are consumers now expecting free apps? Does that necessitate price reduction? How do you think about that? This is Jim Jerry.
I think as Nick referenced we think there's a lot of competition for trial and forces distracting the enrollment mechanism associated with free apps and with activity devices in general.
But I think it's critical to make a distinction between competition for trial and alternatives to our proven and effective program.
And as a stand-alone activity with consumers we're reasonably confident that these things are not going to change the trajectory of the obesity challenge.
Turning that around and looking at them as the potential additives to a strong program like ours we think through time there are real opportunities for us to strengthen our offering on the basis of what we're seeing have a real appeal for consumers.
So I think these are challenging forces in the short run that do affect the online business but these are things that we feel strategically we can turn to our advantage.
I think that's absolutely right Jim.
And look we have experience in that regard in our own business with our successful active link partnership with Philips and we're seeing those take-up rates in our meetings business the power of seamlessly adding something new to our program offering and enriching our membership experience.
Just coming back to the free apps issue all of our research and our customer insights tell us that calorie counting just gets boring after a while and folks just can't stick on the program and don't learn any lifestyle change behaviors while they're on the free apps.
So it's taking trial away from our business but we know that we have a holistic program that can work going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a quick question about the compensation changes.
Could you maybe add some color there in sort of the P&amp;L impact of those changes? I won't have too much detail here because as you can imagine I think it's very important for our service providers to hear those changes from the company first and we're in the process of rolling those out.
But let me tell you about what we're trying to achieve.
We're really trying to ensure that our service providers feel that they're getting fairly compensated for what they bring to Weight Watchers and the investment they make in Weight Watchers.
And in that regard our compensation program frankly was a little complicated and we're simplifying it.
As we simplify it we're maintaining the performance elements of it and we're maintaining the variability elements of it.
It's a -- as we've said 75% of the cost of the program rollout is the back half of the year versus first half of the year.
And if you look at our gross margin trend it's 1 of the top 3 drivers of the deterioration in our back half gross margin trends.
The other 2 of course being the weaker revenue environment and the less mix benefit driven by the slower growing .com business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I promise this will be my last question.
It's for Jim and it's kind of comprehensive but if you can try and answer it in a succinct way Jim the question is how do you think about the growth rate for Weight Watchers? You got this tremendous market opportunity yet the key metric of measurements i.e.
attendance hasn't really grown for the better part of a decade.
You got high margins strong cash flows much of which goes to de-leverage the company which is in part reflective of your majority owners action.
How do you think about the growth profile of Weight Watchers on a going forward basis with those inputs? I think if you look at a measure of engagement as we do paid weeks that has shown up to this year consistent growth I believe for the last 5 years.
So I can turn maybe a bit to the -- what's beneath your question less on a quantified basis and more in general as to how I see the forces that might affect growth in the future for the company.
And I did mention them a bit in the earlier remarks.
I think there's an extraordinary opportunity here.
I don't think I've ever worked in a business before where the potential market is as enormous as this is.
I think it is a tricky category to market in but as Nick said when we get those variables right we can have tremendous impact.
And I think historically our product has been bifurcated between an online product and a meetings product.
And as we look to the future and as we become much more consumer-driven in the way we construct our offerings I think there's a real opportunity to innovate and to offer something that will be stronger in the market.
And my belief in that is strong and that as a consequence as you would imagine translates into a belief that I think we can improve growth rates over the long term.
There's a lot of work to do there.
There's a lot of conceptual thought.
I hope to share more with you guys about that in November at the Analyst Strategy Day but we have a lot of work to do but I'm bullish driven by the fundamentals that we can create a good long-term outlook.
[Operator Instructions] The next question is from Greg Badishkanian from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> And just thinking about -- thinking out to kind of next year in innovation are you planning to launch innovations in all of your markets some of those and have you done any test marketing that might give you some more confidence that in terms of the potential success of what you're planning for the next year's diet season? Well I think the general comment about information regarding future innovation is going to be that we probably wouldn't share too much about that.
We will share more again in November.
I know you're going to get tired of me saying that not too long from now if you haven't already but we will share more in November about our strategies and the directions of those strategies and there will be a high component of innovation driving our efforts as we go forward to meet the market.
So let me just leave it at that and...
I think that's absolutely right.
Yes are we looking at driving growth in all markets in '14 yes.
It's a international effort.
Research Division</strong> So the biggest driver do you think of -- that's impacting some of your metrics that's -- do you think that's just -- as you said it's free apps and the trial that it's getting but it's not necessarily going to be successful so eventually they'll come back to Weight Watchers I guess similar to -- say like the Atkins fad or the low carb fad things like that where they try it it has an impact and then the next few years you recover from it.
Is that what you're thinking? Is it impacting also your in-class business as much as the online business or is it more the online business? Our recruitment profile on both sides of the house has been weak.
Specifically this year as we've said there's been a slowdown on online business.
But you're absolutely right Weight Watchers has faced this issue before.
Our sector there's a slight fad nature if you will to the space in which we operate.
And history shows that folks come back to the holistic program that works.
And then if I could just add as a bit of a repeat that the flip side of this is that this is also evidence of a lot of consumer interest in things that generally they feel might help their health and wellness and their lifestyle going forward.
So in the short run while we think there's interest there it might not translate into medium-term success using those devices and using the free apps alone.
That interest is a big factor for us to consider as we contemplate what components should make up our future offerings and as we contemplate our strategic stance for working with the marketplace.
Are we going to be a little more singular and a little more internally focused and do everything ourself or are we going to open up the power of this multimillion member community to work with other partners in a way that strengthens the brand and strengthens our footprint.
As much as Jim commented in his remarks there's an opportunity to reimagine our offering absolutely.
And I hope it's very clear that we don't like our recruitment environment right now but frankly I'd be much more concerned if there had been any change to the satisfaction of the members on our program or retention of members in our program and it's very important to note that satisfaction remains very strong and retention on the program is consistently as good as it's ever been.
Research Division</strong> One more question.
To Jim when you -- let's say we're 3 years from now looking back would you say that the changes that you're planning to implement are minor tweaks when you look back on it or are they going to be some major changes that we should plan ahead? Look I think we're approaching this as a transformation on a strategic level.
On the short-term basis as we deal with performance which is one of the 3 priorities I mentioned before I think we look at that as Nick said with the urgency on both cost and revenue.
That feels like turnaround in its effort turnaround in its focus.
But when we look longer-term to your question 3 years out looking back that is a transformation.
And I think the components of that are getting the right strategies the strategies that relate to our commercial operations the strategies that relate to the way we deliver our programs.
But very importantly developing the focus and the ability to execute at a much higher level than we have in the past and aligning the power of the mission and the focus of the organization against these opportunities.
So figuring out what are the short list of strategies that we really want to align around and then building the clear plans and accountabilities and metrics and all the things that are required to make a business go forward quarter-after-quarter building that execution model.
That to me if we look back 3 years out and we saw that in our rearview mirror that's something I think we would be proud of.
There are no further questions registered at this time.
I would like to turn the meeting back over to Mr.
Chambers.
Well thank you for your participation in today's call.
While disappointed with the near-term performance and outlook we remain excited about the longer-term opportunities in front of us.
We're working hard to transform the business and get the top line moving and are confident in our ability to deliver.
We look forward to ongoing dialogue sharing more of our plans and providing progress updates over the coming months.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The conference has now ended.
Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Lori Scherwin Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you operator and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Chambers our President and CEO; and Nick Hotchkin Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the third quarter financial results of fiscal '13.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the SEC.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Lori and good afternoon everyone.
Today our planned remarks will address 4 topics: our third quarter results; the outlook for the remainder of 2013; context for our early thinking on 2014; and I would also like to share with you my assessment of why we are where we are and the strategies we will employ to improve performance going forward.
Next Wednesday at our Investor Day we will share more detail on these same strategies and have a underpin our transformation plan as well as how we will keep you up-to-date on our progress.
I see now that this situation we are facing as a business and organization is more difficult than it originally appeared.
Although our third quarter profit results exceeded our expectations as a result of strong cost management it is clear that our top line momentum is weak across nearly all our business lines and geographies with steep declines in recruitment being the principal cause.
This weakness has accelerated as we have moved further into 2013 and will continue into the fourth quarter and calendar year 2014 as the wave of free apps stealing trial in the category continues to adversely impact our online recruitments in particular.
Notwithstanding their easily understandable appeal we do not believe that free apps will solve the obesity epidemic.
We do believe that Weight Watchers is best positioned to do so but we need to change to accomplish it.
That having been said I want to be clear: I believe we can transform this company but we have a lot of work to do to finalize validate and deliver our strategic initiatives and achieve our potential.
It will take time.
There is no silver bullet.
Weight Watchers has built a good business and a great brand over the last 50 years.
On this there is no debate.
We have helped tens of millions of people tackle their weight challenges and changed many many many lives forever.
We have learned a lot about the critical aspects of weight loss including the importance of support being there when people need help face-to-face in many cases.
We've learned that engagement drives success.
The more ways we can touch a consumer in meetings online and via mobile technology encouraging the use of tools in planning and monitoring their weight loss actions the more they will succeed.
But to generalize intentionally we've done this largely by pushing solutions at consumers taking our strong validated core program and pushing it at a segment of the consumer population.
I believe this push mentality is one of the reasons that participation in the commercial weight-loss category is small relative to the total population of people that state they want to lose weight.
The consumer has changed and we haven't kept pace.
It's too simple a diagnosis to say that we blindly push the same old thing at consumers and that's why we're struggling.
We have innovated.
We have built strong consumer activation programs.
But we have not been consistent enough in doing so and it hasn't been the central focus of the company.
Push must become pull.
We need to wrap increasingly individualized content and support models around an increasingly fragmenting consumer leveraging technology the strength of our brand and the distribution assets we have to meet her on her terms retaining her trust giving her hope and mentoring her success.
We need to turn this company inside out.
Frankly I'm not sure if it's inside out or upside down I just know that to win we need to change.
To fulfill our mission we need to change.
No one doubts that the market we serve has great potential.
However taken collectively companies that provide products and services for weight management have a long way to go to fully develop this opportunity.
We'll explore this further next week.
But let's look at the U.S.
for example the largest commercial weight loss market.
Of the people who are actively engaged in weight management fewer than 1 in 10 is using a commercial weight loss plan.
This is an opportunity.
This is a market with tremendous value-creation potential waiting for a better set of solutions.
All of that said there is and has been a significant gap between our market potential and our performance.
The last 2 years have proven more challenging with recruitment trends softening significantly.
Our commercial activities have not consistently delivered.
We have been a bit insular in our thinking and less quick to notice and address competitive threats.
We have not consistently leveraged consumer insights to drive commercial results.
And our offering has been bifurcated not by consumer design but by a legacy approach.
Our technology costs have increased significantly without a clear and commensurate increase in product preference.
And our marketing while positive in impact has been inconsistent in execution.
We have failed appropriate resource growth opportunities like health care at times letting them operate as people's part-time jobs.
In addition our cost structure has not been managed as dynamically as it could have been.
Recently we were shown great momentum with reduction initiatives but we have more to do to flex the operating model given the near-term revenue picture improved prioritization and reduced reliance on external services.
Finally to become more responsive to market opportunities we need to become a more agile organization.
That is a lot to say.
That is a lot to acknowledge and accept particularly for a passionate talented and proud organization.
But it is the reality of the business we are trying to change.
The task at hand is not easy.
We have a lot of work to do and this will certainly be a multiyear effort.
But that said we are confident.
We are a well-resourced market leader with a clear view of our challenges and a commitment to improve performance.
We are confident that if we execute well against our 4 areas of strategic focus referred to as our strategic pillars we can transform our company.
So what are our strategic pillars? Let me list them first and spend a minute or two on each one.
Once again please understand we'll go into more detail next week at our Investor Day.
They are: one addressing our immediate market performance; two reimagining our core offering; three growing our health care business; and four strengthening the organization.
Taking these one at a time let's look at pillar 1 addressing our immediate market performance.
This includes focusing our commercial agenda to improve execution and driving cost savings.
Think of it as doing what we need to do to deliver as much as we can over the next year.
This won't solve our fundamental issues but it will contribute in the short run.
We will be focused on our January innovation which will make it easier for people to join and get started on Weight Watchers; retention initiatives focused on the first of 4 weeks of a member's experience; short-term product improvements particularly enhancing our online offering; and aggressive consumer activation through brand marketing promotion and advocacy efforts.
Our second strategic pillar is reimagining our core offering.
This is innovating our consumer offer leveraging insights to provide the market what it needs to meet consumers on their terms.
We have a lot of assets to work with but also much to do.
It's clear that our online product requires enhancement and differentiation.
Our meetings offering needs to become more relevant to additional consumer segments.
But the future opportunities are not defined by the boundaries of the current offerings.
Rather they will be more targeted and individualized displaying greater depth against the drivers of value in the category.
As the global category leader we have the resources to define and pursue meaningful consumer innovation.
But we need to change how we listen how we learn and how we build.
Given the difficulty in this category of relying on consumer research alone we are establishing a broader capability around rapid consumer piloting to facilitate product development.
You may have seen the recent findings of a study conducted by researchers at the Baylor College of Medicine which lends further support to the principle that multiple points of consumer engagement drive greater weight loss success.
This strengthens our belief in the efficacy of our program as is and more so gives us conviction that we can leverage the building blocks within our portfolio to drive a reimagined consumer proposition.
Pillar 3 is growing our health care business.
The health care landscape continues to evolve.
Our strong brand and proven program efficacy makes us a compelling partner for corporations as well as larger health care players to pursue the benefits of improved weight management on a population level.
We're making progress.
But we need to scale up and dedicate the appropriate capital and resources to do this effectively.
Colin Watts President of recently established Weight Watchers Health Solutions business unit will share our road map with you next week on how when and what it will take to get ready for greater market participation and the return we expect to see from these efforts.
Finally let me turn to pillar 4 strengthening the organization.
Pillar 4 is about driving the organizational mechanisms we need to ensure success in pillars 1 2 and 3.
How do we align our structure with our strategy? How do we fill talent gaps and improve organizational efficiencies? How do we instill the critical cultural forces of a more entrepreneurial organization including agility teamwork and empowerment? What new capabilities do we need to create for example building out our domain expertise in health care and improving the depth of our product and innovation teams? In that vein I am thrilled to welcome 2 new members to our organization and executive team namely Dan Crowe joins us as Chief Technology Officer; and Lesya Lysyj joins us as President of our North America business unit.
These are both critically important roles particularly at this time.
Dan has over 25 years of consulting and IT experience in technology leadership and product management roles; and Lesya with whom I had the pleasure of working at Kraft and Cadbury has tremendous experience in building and transforming consumer brands.
They will both bring fresh perspectives to our teams and I look forward to them starting next month.
Separately Bruce Rosengarten our President of Asia Pacific will be leaving us at the end of this month to take a position in another industry.
We are evaluating this part of the organization and we'll announce our intentions in the future.
We have a lot of work to do to bring our 4 pillars into full force.
I am confident in our ability to succeed.
And as I have said I recognize it will not come overnight.
We are committed to sharing with you where we are what we've identified and what still needs to be done when we get together at our Investor Day on Wednesday next week.
Nick will now provide more detail in the quarter as well as provide you with our outlook on Q4 2013 and context for early thinking on 2014.
Then we will be both available for your questions.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
Similar to the first half results the third quarter showed continued progress with our cost agenda but also saw weakening revenues as a result of negative recruitment trend.
We were pleased that results exceeded our expectations given the team's aggressive focus on costs.
But as Jim described there is much more to do to get the top line moving and then even more aggressive cost agenda to pursue.
The key issue we have faced this year is negative recruitment.
Paid weeks and revenue growth lags recruitment given our subscription-based model which is why you have seen the revenue trend get progressively worse throughout the year.
Specifically total company revenue declined 3% in Q1 4% in Q2 and 8.5% in Q3.
Third quarter total paid weeks were down 6.6% embedding declines for both meetings and WeightWatchers.com.
Operating income declined 6% as cost savings only partially offset the impact of lower revenue and investments in the business.
As a result of this and higher interest expense related to our April 2013 refinancing our Q3 EPS was $1.07 versus $1.20 in Q3 2012.
Let me share more detail on the quarter starting with WeightWatchers.com.
The competitive environment is challenging driven by pressure from free apps and the proliferation of activity monitors.
These continue to hit our recruitment though importantly our retention remained solid.
Third quarter revenue rose 1%.
Paid weeks declined 2.6% and this is the first time in our history that WeightWatchers.com paid weeks have declined on a year-over-year basis.
End-of-period active subscribers declined 5%.
Given this trend we expect Q4 paid weeks to be down mid-single digit and online revenue to decline by a similar percentage.
Within the meetings business NACO remains under pressure.
In the quarter total NACO meeting fees declined 11% paid weeks declined 11% and attendance was down 15%.
In-meeting product sales declined 25% with product sales per attendee down 11%.
Post Q3 we completed the purchase of our Manitoba franchise for $5.2 million.
North America is now about 87% company-owned.
The acquisitions we have completed in the past year contributed about 2% in NACO's top line results in the third quarter.
Within B2B the strategic business continued to perform well with revenue up in the high teens.
However the regional At Work business which is not subsidized and tends to follow similar trends as in B2C NACO was down in the mid-teens.
For the fourth quarter we expect total NACO volume trends to be similar to the third quarter.
Next U.K.
meetings.
This business remains under pressure from an aggressive local competitor.
In the quarter paid weeks and attendance were down in the low 20s and we expect a similar trend in Q4.
Finally Continental Europe meetings.
Paid weeks declined 2% and attendance was down 8%.
We expect Q4 to show further decline.
Globally our other revenues which include franchise commissions and licensing revenue declined 9% in the quarter.
Now some color on costs.
At the start of 2013 given the weak recruitments in our winter diet season we kicked off our cost reduction initiative.
This year we expect to achieve $75 million in gross cost savings.
This translates to $90 million of savings on an annualized basis.
Approximately 2/3 of these savings have been driven by a rightsizing of a marketing spend with the balance driven by a reduction in G&amp;A and operating expense.
Big areas of cost savings to date have included marketing efficiencies reduction of external spend vendor contract negotiations and T&amp;E discipline.
I am proud of our team's accomplishments so far but we have more to do to ensure that our costs and organization are aligned with our business transformation plan.
And that is why we are challenging ourselves by raising our expectation for our multiyear cost savings effort to $150 million in gross annualized savings over 2013 through 2015.
I will share more color on our cost savings initiative next week.
Q3 gross margin was down 100 basis points to 58.4%.
This is better than our expectations with mix and cost savings being the primary drivers.
Relative to the prior year the decline was driven largely by operating cost deleverage and the initial impact from our U.S.
service provider compensation changes.
The impact of these compensation changes was a $3 million increase of costs in the third quarter the amount that will increase in the fourth quarter and total nearly $8 million for the year.
In Q3 both the meetings and WeightWatchers.com segments saw declines in their gross margins and we continue to expect gross margin decline in the fourth quarter to be worse than the third.
But we now expect the full year gross margin to be down by about 100 basis points.
Q3 marketing spend was down nearly $20 million versus prior and represented 11.8% of sales versus 15.3% a year ago.
The decline was driven by reductions in our TV and digital spend as well as the lack of a men-specific U.S.
campaign this year.
For the full year we now expect marketing spend to be down by nearly $60 million.
G&amp;A expense rose 2% in the quarter and represented 15% of sales versus 13.5% a year ago.
Good traction on cost savings only partially offset investments.
That said we've made more progress on G&amp;A than we anticipated and now expect full year 2013 G&amp;A spend to be up no more than $10 million.
There are no changes to our below-the-line assumptions for interest tax or share count.
In addition we continue to expect cash from operations for the full year to be in the $300 million range.
As a result of our cost savings initiatives being ahead of plan we are raising our full year 2013 EPS guidance to a range of $3.85 to $3.95 versus prior guidance of $3.55 to $3.70.
This assumes fourth quarter global revenue down low double digits with meetings paid weeks down low double digits and online paid weeks down mid-single digits.
I would also like to provide some additional perspective on next year.
While we plan to provide guidance for 2014 in February we wanted to share with you our primary areas of focus in analyzing our expectations for 2014 notably our starting actives base recruitment trends and trust management.
You will recall that in our Q2 earnings call we discussed that regardless of the success of our 2014 recruitment drive the reality is that we will have a much lower active base at the start of 2014 than we had at the start of 2013.
This remains the same.
We are working very hard on our 2014 winter season plan and are optimistic they can have a positive impact on our trajectory.
That said we are not currently expecting the wave of free app trials to abate in 2014.
In fact it's likely to be tougher than ever.
As such the revenue pressures affecting our business are not likely to lessen.
Based on this the decline in 2013 enrollment trends could persist into 2014.
If our expected negative recruitment trends in the fourth quarter were to persist through 2014 this combined with a lower starting actives base would result in a low double-digit revenue decline next year.
Clearly we hope to do better but we do not expect a return to revenue growth until our strategic initiatives bear fruit.
While we will aggressively pursue cost savings opportunities and are confident in our ability to generate incremental savings there are a few things to call out: First while we realized significant marketing savings in 2013 versus prior year we do not expect to make additional marketing cuts next year as we invest in our program and brand.
Therefore we expect marketing spend next year to be materially in line with our 2013 level.
Second we recently announced an improved compensation program for our U.S.
service providers to better reflect the value they provide to our business reduce complexity and better align their incentives with our business objectives.
This represents an annual investment of roughly $23 million approximately $8 million in 2013 mostly in the second half and an incremental $15 million in operating expenses for the full year 2014.
Lastly I want to address the dividend announcement.
Our board certainly considered the decision to suspend our dividend.
While we have a strong liquidity position today it is important to note that our leverage is already over 4x and given our business trends will likely be higher next year.
In light of this the board elected to act proactively to build flexibility on the balance sheet to fund the company's transformation while preserving cash for future debt payments.
We will now open this up for your questions.
Thanks operator.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Jerry Herman of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question relates to the launch if you will in January of next year.
It seems like your expectations are relatively low there and is it too early to get any read or test activity on the receptivity of that program? Yes thanks for the question Jerry this is Jim.
We're confident in what we have planned for the market in January.
I'm not going to share too much detail around the testing and validation path there but we are -- we're tapping into some core category drivers and we're facing head-on some of the consumer perceptions around our service and we're centered on making an easy way to start Weight Watchers working against a consumer sense that maybe were a little too complicated and maybe require a bit too much of a commitment.
So we're tapping into an insight that we think is very compelling and we're ramping a program around that.
Important to note at the same time we are tempering our confidence in our programming next year not just in January but in general with our increasing sense of how trial is being impacted in this marketplace associated with the continued activity of free apps.
So we do have confidence but we're cautious as to where that will net out.
Yes I think that's right.
And if I could just add Jerry look we're confident in our program in looking to drive the top line aggressively in the winter diet season.
But as you saw in what I said about our revenue trend leading to a low double-digit decline in the fourth quarter we're really just starting to feel the full impact of the steep recruitment declines we've seen this year.
So that's particularly true for dotcom with the dotcom only turning negative in Q4.
So regardless of how successful our winter diet season is we know that 2014 will be a very challenging year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my second question just with regard to online maybe a 3-parter if I may the first part easy.
Do you intend on reintroducing a male initiative in next year? And then the second part and third part I guess relates to the relationship between pricing and cost structure and online.
I know you folks have devoted a lot of resource to building online.
Jim do you think those 2 metrics are aligned properly at this point? First off with respect to men as a strategy if you will as a target segment I think we had pretty good results with the initiative we did in the past.
But frankly we see a bigger strategic opportunity going forward that needs cultivation and assessment.
We would have to approach that a different way.
So that is on -- that's on the agenda strategically but I wouldn't expect that in the near term.
And broadly with respect to pricing and the competitive frame I think I alluded in the remarks to the fact that we do see particularly on the online product that we need to provide enhancements to bolster the value proposition there.
The folks who are using that offering with us are having success or having good levels of satisfaction.
But that is where the competitive changes are focused and we need to evolve and stay ahead of at that and enhance that product offering to deliver more value there.
That could include features that could include different promotion tactics.
I think there are a number of options on the table.
Yes.
And look Jerry obviously look our men's dotcom sign-ups in the U.S.
are down given the decision not to run a specific men's campaign.
But in Q3 men still represented roughly 12% of monthly past sign-ups in the U.S.
So we're still attracting men to this business.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> There was one -- when you did your launch Jim you talked about a couple of things that were particularly interesting.
One was personalization making WeightWatchers.com more like Match.com.
You also talked about multiple flavors and I think you were talking about combining support with the online tools.
Do you have any more sort of visibility into how you leverage your greatest strength which is support? I think this question ladders up directly to our strategy around reimagining the core offering.
And if I remember that conversation -- and arguably not as well as you do apparently but if I remember that conversation I think what I was evidencing was the way that we could imagine taking the gems in the current offer that we have and bundling arranging presenting them in different ways to reach the same targets in a more compelling and deeper fashion as well as a different targets altogether.
And that combination of leveraging what we have that we know works including support as you mentioned against a consumer-defined set of needs and opportunity that's basically what that strategy is about.
Does that answer your question? Research Division</strong> I think so.
I mean I think hopefully some of that will be fleshed out a little bit more.
And I guess another question I have is you've obviously brought in some new senior leadership in a couple of important areas.
I had asked you this question at the launch but I guess I'll ask it again how much change is really needed in the organization to get you where you want to be? Is it remedial work that can be done? Or are there going to be more significant changes in the staff? I think in general a lot of change is needed.
I wouldn't jump to a conclusion about how much that is or isn't with respect to the staff in particular.
But I think a lot of change is needed.
We have a lot to work with.
We have a lot of institutional knowledge around this category and the products and the history of what we have done what works what doesn't work the depths of scientific perspective.
But there's a big difference between being in a company that looks at the consumer but thinks about what it has and pushes it versus a company that is day-to-day without even knowing it running by responding to the marketplace.
And I've spent the better part of 30 years in those kinds of businesses.
So for me maybe it's a little bit second nature.
And that's the transformation that we need to make.
And I think it sits above the concept of staff.
Will we make additional organization changes to better align ourselves with that kind of a model? Yes.
But a lot of it has to do with the processes we put in place and a lot of it has to do with kind of creating the inspiration around the folks that are there to get attached to that mission and to learn to do it that way.
It is a very powerful thing when an organization lives in the marketplace first and translates that into their actions second.
And I think that's a big part of why I'm confident that we can get there.
If we take all the raw materials we have and we lay it into a structure like that and we push ourselves to move quickly and respond to what the marketplace is telling us I think we can be the ones to meet the opportunity.
So I took your question and I spun it a bit into a platform speech but I hope I addressed it.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I'll just ask one more question.
What is your sense of the response in the organization to what you're doing and what you're talking about? I think people are extremely liberated by the sense that we are looking at things with fresh eyes.
And that whether you've been here a week or you've been here 10 years we're all new we're all starting from this point and we're going forward.
And we'll take the best of what we have and the best of what we've learned but we're able to leave a little bit of the baggage behind.
So I think there's an excitement around feeling that liberation.
That having been said I hope they feel energized and I certainly hope they don't feel overconfident.
This is a hell of a journey we're going to go on and we need to respect the degree of difficulty and just get each other primed and focused on what we've got to do.
So I think that translates into a little bit of -- if that translates into a little bit of nervous energy I'd be thrilled.
So liberated and a little bit excited.
But since we haven't laid all of it out there exactly I hope they also feel like they will be invited into the solution.
I mentioned in the critical cultural forces section of the talk that the word impairment which is such a terribly overused word but fundamentally I think there's a lot of power to be unleashed in this organization by letting people do what they know how to do.
Let's get lined up against the same objectives but let's not run as much top down.
Let's create the agility and let people get on with doing what we need to do.
And our next question is from Kurt Frederick of Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One is just on generally you do kind of like these product launches in market kind of every other year.
I'm just wondering if your plans for next year are I guess more I guess encompassing just going into all your markets and trying to make some program changes and updates? I'm sorry Kurt is the question how universal might our innovation agenda be across our markets? Research Division</strong> Right.
I think we need to be an equal opportunity employer with respect to where we see the value creation.
Taking a perspective that isn't simply one market at a time can give us some leverage and efficiencies for having a multi-market footprint.
In fact as you see the January program unfold I think you'll see a little bit of that play out already.
That having been said there are clearly markets where we are much more deeply penetrated and have much more financially speaking we have much more at stake and those are markets we have to get right.
We've seen as we've been in the other markets levels of local innovation that are really exciting that we can steal with pride and use back in some of the bigger markets as well.
So I think as a place to cultivate as a place to pilot we have lots of opportunities and you'll see us test in places other than the United States for example.
So I think we have a multi-market view.
I think it's based on what we think the potential opportunity-by-opportunity is but we do see the leverage in doing things the same way in many places at once.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question on the like the apps and activity monitors.
Is that pressure seen is that consistent across your geographies or is it much more impactful in certain markets? It does vary to -- to say again the quantitative data on these things is not the best.
But it does vary.
And the U.S.
is one of the more developed one of the more pressured environments with respect to the kind of what I talked to you before the consumer trough around the free app offerings.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then could you repeat what was the comments you had made earlier about the Asia Pacific? Did you say you're evaluating whether or not you want to continue to invest there? Or what was the...
No just in response to the resignation we're evaluating what our structure and staffing options are going forward.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jim Chambers for any closing remarks.
We appreciate your participation in today's call.
While disappointed with our near-term performance and outlook we are excited about the potential to transform our business.
We look forward to continuing our dialogue in particular at our Investor Day next week.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Corey Kinger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laura and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's fourth quarter and full year 2013 Conference Call.
With us on the call today are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2013 results for the fourth quarter and full year.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These Risk Factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the SEC.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Corey and good afternoon everyone.
Today Nick and I would like to do a few thing update you on our Q4 and full year 2013 performance tell you how 2014 has started and the implications for 2014 guidance and as promised on our Investor Day three months ago share with you our progress against our transformation plan.
At a high level our Q4 performance of $0.54 per share was in line with expectations as good cost management was partially able to offset a deteriorating top line which included the first ever quarterly decline versus prior in Internet revenues.
Furthermore the start of the year is proving to be every bit as challenging as we thought if not more so.
The headwinds from free apps and activity monitors have only continued to intensify and are significantly impacting consumers.
And our marketing efforts in the early part of this year have been less effective than we had hoped putting our top and bottom lines under greater pressure.
During our Investor Day on November 6 we shared our assessment of the state of the Weight Watchers business.
We were frank about the challenges we face and clear about the strengths we have to work with to turnaround our business.
I'd like to recap that story starting with a three-point summary of our situation assessment.
First our offerings have become less appealing in this changing market largely because our innovation approach and our approach to the consumer in general have not been sufficiently market driven.
In addition we have a big task at hand to modernize our technology architecture and create a more efficient product development engine.
Second our costs have increased over time particularly G&amp;A and technology costs but also our meetings business operating expenses where we have not been quick enough to flex down the cost structure as recruitment trends turns negative.
Third on the positive side we have a lot of strengths to build on.
The Weight Watchers program works.
We have a great brand with high awareness and deep trust.
We have a large community of past and present members and our organization is passionate and mission driven including many thousands of talented services providers supporting our members' weight loss efforts in the field on a weekly basis.
In response we share the four strategic pillars that make up the transformation plan we are aggressively pursuing.
First we must improve our immediate performance in tough competitive conditions.
We need to deliver every bit of top line we can and work hard on our cost agenda.
Second we need to create product advantage through reimagining our offering building more quickly and constantly validating at a consumer level.
Third we must expand aggressively into healthcare.
And finally we need to continue to strengthen our organization building capability and increasing agility.
We remain confident in these strategies to transform this great company and we are making progress against key elements of our multiyear transformational plan.
To add to our update I would like to outline the tactical priorities we have under each strategic pillar and detail our current efforts therein.
First as you recall is improving near term performance.
As Nick will discuss in more detail we are seeing softness across all of our large markets.
With respect to this year's program enhancement our marketing has failed to generate the expected interest in Simple Start.
As a result the take up rate has been slower than unexpected but from those who have pursued it the feedback is positive.
As a product enhancement Simple Start has more potential than last year's innovation with the marketing introducing it has been less effective.
The net of this is that we have not been able to combat the increased pressure on consumer consideration from free apps and activity monitors.
In this context the first pillar one priority is to maximize our consumer activation.
In nearly all markets we are changing up our advertizing rotation and introducing reshot or re-cut ads that focus on what has resonated better a mixture of a more direct focus on Simple Start as a new program and here in the U.S.
launching new Jessica Simpson ads beginning next week.
The second pillar one priority is cost management.
We continue to work on our cost agenda on which despite progress in 2013 we have further work to do.
While Nick will go into our plans in more detail 2014 will include a more significant effort on G&amp;A expense.
In fact after four years in row of significant increases in the G&amp;A expenditure we will be reducing total G&amp;A in 2014 and this is despite making substantial investments in healthcare and in our product innovation and development capability.
As you saw in 2013 we will continue to reduce spending on outside contractors while ensuring that we are building strength within the organization where it is most needed.
Our third pillar one priority is to re-plan our marketing investment to efficiently breakthrough a busy consumer activation environment influenced by heightened interest and engagement with free apps and activity monitors.
Within this effort we will be reducing marketing spend this year consistent directionally with our decreased revenue forecast.
Finally we have made the explicit strategic decision to focus our resources on those markets with the highest near term potential.
By way of example since we last spoke we have shuttered our China operations.
Our second strategic pillar is creating product advantage through reimagining our offering.
Our focus here is on creating strategic capability for more efficiently and with more confidence build things that consumers want.
This won't happen overnight but we are making progress and are committing more resources to this effort.
We are fast cycling ideas through validation via customer feedback in the real world conditions.
In particular we are building our learning in the area of support not to mention critical to the Weight Watchers brand differentiation.
We are engaging consumers around channels of contact phone video text.
We are finding out how they do and don't want to be contacted.
How much contextual prompting is preferred versus open-ended dialogue? How aggregated content broadcast such as the webcast are received and for what support objectives they are appropriate? We want first timers come to our digital landing pages and observe how confusing it is for them to learn about us.
We see how in this case we've been to focus on the repeat customer.
We have performed detailed research comparing our digital offerings through emerging competitors.
We understand the performance of individual key features as well as overall perceptions around ease-of-use and reported weight loss.
We understand where we are strong and where we have opportunities and are actively working improving our product.
We are learning a lot about how to add value to our offer.
Through this we have already identified the direction of our 2015 winter diet season product innovation.
With teams in place focused on the technology build researching marketing positioning options and identifying the field with delivery capabilities required for success.
Our third strategic pillar is our expansion into healthcare.
The first priority here is to build the foundation which includes investing further in HIPAA compliance data capture and the systems required for eligibility verification billing and reporting.
By way of example we have designed a tablet base system that will allow us to create an easy to operate platform for our meetings environment as well as create a stronger and more modern member experience in general.
Our CTO Dan Crowe is playing a pivotal role in these efforts and we're leverage external domain expertise where most appropriate.
We expect that by the end of Q2 we will select the key technology partners for systems build out through the balance of the year.
This brings us to the second priority within delivery: establishing partnerships with health plans.
We are in discussion with a select number of health plans for launch of new or expanded benefit offering to their members for potentially as early as the 2015 benefit season.
We're very pleased with the progress of these discussions and are exploring a variety of approaches to leverage the evidence-based and consumer engaging strengths of the Weight Watchers program within a health plan benefit offering.
We expect to continue to update you on our progress on this front as we move through the year.
The third priority within pillar three is to continue to grow our strategic accounts direct to employer relationships.
Our fourth and final pillar is strengthening the organization.
The first priority here has been to build a strong senior team and model the culture we desire.
I'm encouraged by our progress here.
We've established a great team.
They're a team that is incentivized for success and get us to do the turnaround portion of our transformation and scale to growth beyond.
Within the last 12 months we've promoted our two best operators to run both halves of our international business recruited a new Head of Human Resources a new CTO and most recently as announced in November Lesya Lysyj joined us to run our North American business from Heineken where she was CMO for U.S.
I'd worked with Lesya for five years at Cadbury and I know she will contribute greatly developing our brand strategy improving our consumer activation and delivering results in the North American marketplace.
The entire team is advancing a culture of empowerment agility collaboration and results orientation.
Our second pillar of fourth priority relates to efficiency.
As part of our commitment to reduce G&amp;A expenses we're working hard on creating a more agile and efficient organization.
Our plans are not final but we know this won't be a uniform exercise.
There will additions and reductions but overall we will be a smaller organization.
We will continue to add investment in healthcare and the product and R&amp;D organization is charged with our core growth strategies.
In most other parts of the organization we will be reducing investment by eliminating redundancies improving our processes and getting smarter about setting priorities and making tradeoffs.
For now on technology we're asking the team to focus its efforts on adding value to our core offerings including critical work on the 2015 innovation.
As a result our commitment to reduce G&amp;A this year does not include material net savings in tech which represent the size of the portion of the total expense.
Efficiencies in tech will come in 2015 and beyond as we improve our delivery model.
Before I hand it over to Nick I'll leave you with us.
We have a clear view of our situation; we know what the issues are.
We don't like our performance so far in 2014 and we are working hard right now to improve this.
Our plans for the 2015 product innovation and healthcare initiatives are on the right track.
I've got the right team and we're motivated to deliver our transformation plan.
Over to Nick.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
For fiscal 2013 our reported EPS is $3.63 as compared to $4.23 in the prior year.
Included in our fiscal 2013 EPS is a $0.24 charge associated with our April 2013 refinancing and included in fiscal 2012 is the $0.07 benefit from an accrual reversal related to our tax settlement.
Excluding these items we delivered 2013 EPS of $3.87 within our guidance range of $3.85 to $3.95 when compared to our prior year EPS of $4.16.
All of my subsequent remarks today will exclude both of these items from P&amp;L comparison.
The major theme of 2013 was consistently weak and deteriorating recruitment performance resulting in paid weeks and revenue trends that became progressively worse throughout the year.
As expected Q4 was our weakest quarter.
Total company revenue declined 11% in Q4.
Fourth quarter total paid weeks were down 8.5% with declines in both our online and meetings businesses.
Despite continued nimble cost management these top line trends put substantial pressure on the P&amp;L resulting in Q4 operating income declining 26.7% to $79 million.
Q4 EPS of $0.54 included $0.04 of cost associated with the shutdown of our China operation.
Now on to fourth quarter business performance starting with weighteatchers.com.
As Jim mentioned our Weight Watchers Online business had its first ever quarter of declining revenues in Q4.
Fourth quarter Internet revenue declined 5.2% (inaudible).
End of period global active online subscribers declined 7% to 1.7 million from 1.9 million at year end 2012.
Moving to meetings end of period global monthly (inaudible) declined to 1.2 million from 1.4 million at year-end 2012.
Our North America meetings business remained under pressure and in the fourth quarter total NACO meeting fees declined 13% paid weeks declined 11% and attendance was down 13%.
In-meeting product sales declined 29% with products sales per attendee down 19%.
The franchise acquisitions we have completed in the past year contributed about 3% of NACO's top line results in the fourth quarter.
Within B2B the strategic business grew 10% in Q4.
Key new account wins in Q4 2013 included Coach USA the University of Colorado and Winn-Dixie.
However the regional at work business which is not subsidized followed similar trends as our B2C business.
Next UK meetings.
In the quarter paid weeks and attendance were down in the low 20s.
Finally in our Continental Europe meetings business paid weeks were down 2% and attendance was down 6%.
Globally our other revenues which include franchise commissions and licensing revenue declined 10% in the quarter.
Now I will review some key financial metrics for Q4 2013.
In the fourth quarter gross margin declined 170 basis points to 55.1% with full year gross margin of 59.1% 60 basis points below the prior year.
There were declines in both the meetings and weightwatchers.com segment.
For both segments operating cost deleverage was a key factor.
For meetings there is the additional impact of our U.S.
service provider compensation changes.
Q4 marketing spend was down over $11 million versus prior.
For the full year marketing spend was $296 million down $58 million versus 2012.
Note during Q4 we implemented a new accounting treatment for marketing support received from Vendas whereby this funding is recognized as Weight Watchers revenue and also reflected as gross marketing spend.
For the year and the quarter the impact of this change was $11 million $1 million of marketing respectively.
The marketing spend decline for the year was driven by reductions in TV production and digital spend as well as the absence of a men-specific U.S.
account name in 2013.
Q4 G&amp;A expenses increased $8.7 million versus prior largely driven by one-time expenses such as the cost associated with shutting down our China business.
For the full year 2013 G&amp;A spend was at $15 million.
Our Q4 tax rate was 41.4% higher than normal driven by the China closure and some other one-time adjustments.
In the quarter foreign currency impact on our result was negligible.
In 2013 cash flow from operations remained strong at $324 million.
We ended the year with $175 million in cash and $2.4 billion in debt which has no restrictive financial covenants.
Now I will discuss our outlook for 2014.
As Jim has said while we have strong confidence in this team's ability to execute a successful transformation we knew that 2014 would be a very challenging year.
We were hopeful that our Simple Start program would have a positive impact on our recruitment trajectory.
Unfortunately due to the competitive clauses that Jim has discussed and the campaign that underperformed our recruitment trajectory worsened.
Given the lowest starting active space versus prior and the weight recruitment environment we now expect revenues to decline in the high teens and are forecasting revenue of roughly $1.4 billion for 2014.
For the first quarter 2014 we expect weightwatchers.com paid weeks to decline in the mid teens versus prior and high teens for the full year.
For meetings in North America we anticipate that full year and Q1 attendances in paid weeks will decline year-over-year in the low 20% range.
In the UK we expect attendance in paid weeks declines versus prior in the 20s for both the first quarter and the full year.
Finally for CE we anticipate paid weeks and attendances to be down mid single-digits in Q1 and the year.
Now some color on top.
Our philosophy is to invest in key areas in support of future growth but to cut aggressively elsewhere.
As Jim mentioned headcount reductions will be part of our plan.
In fiscal 2013 we made good progress towards the $150 million annual growth savings goal we announced at our Investor Day.
This goal included approximately $60 million of marketing spend rightsizing which we realized in 2013 and approximately $90 million in gross annual operating expense and G&amp;A efficiencies to be achieved between 2013 and 2015.
As we see it now we will meet the savings goal by the end of this year.
Moving to gross margin despite expected operating expense savings gross margins are anticipated to decline roughly 400 basis points for the full year 2014 with Q1's decline in the same neighborhood.
This decline is driven primarily by operating deleverage across both our meetings and online businesses and also includes the incremental expense in 2014 related to our new U.S.
service provider compensation program.
In line with Jim's remarks our Q1 marketing spend will be broadly in line with prior.
We are currently anticipating that marketing expense for the full year 2014 will decline by roughly $20 million.
As you would expect keeping our intensified scrutiny on all areas of expense in 2014 G&amp;A will decline for the first year since 2009.
We expect 2014 G&amp;A to be down low single-digit advantage percentage prior despite our plan to spend up to an incremental $20 million on the combination of healthcare and new product development.
Absent this planned investment G&amp;A is expected to decline by double-digit percentages in 2014.
And the go forward plan holds for further double-digit percentage reductions in G&amp;A in 2015 driven in part by the opportunity to reduce our tax spending once we have revamped our technology model.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense of approximately $125 million and the tax rate of 38.5%.
For 2014 we expect to spend about $50 million on CapEx with G&amp;A for the year of about $45 million.
Generating cash to pay down debt is our clear capital structure priority.
Our 2014 earnings guidance reflects the fact that the revenue decline has substantial stress on our P&amp;L.
It also reflects a continued aggressive focus on cost.
However while reducing cost is a necessary building block of our transformation by itself it would be insufficient.
That's why we are investing in support of product innovation particularly for the winter diets season 2015 and healthcare.
Therefore we are providing EPS guidance for the year of $1.30 to $1.60 with the lower-end assuming no change in current recruitment trends.
Note that this guidance incorporates the fact that fiscal 2014 includes a 53rd week which bridges the last week of December 2014 and the first week of January 2015.
And this 53rd week has an expected negative $0.04 impact on our full year EPS.
Also during the first quarter we intent to finalize plans to resize the organization and one-time costs associated with this planned restructuring are not included in this guidance.
We expect Q1 2014 be our toughest comparison given that marketing spend will be broadly in line with the prior quarter and not all of our cost efforts will have kicked in.
We will now open it up to questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from Meredith Adler of Barclays Capital.
May be I'd like to just starting by talking a little bit about what you saw happening in the fourth quarter as the quarter progressed and then what you've seen in the first quarter in terms of both paid weeks and online sign-ups? Well Meredith first you know what since we last spoke on our November 6 Analyst Day of course 2014 is worse than we thought and that's reflected in both Q4 results that showed continued strain on our top line business including weightwatchers.com turning negative for the first time and into their winter diet season.
So it's really that tough recruitment environment.
I think as we've said that was based on the fact that while we feel Simple Start was a better innovation than last year our marketing could have been more effective as to support it.
That's why you see us moving quickly on all front launching new Jessica ads for example next week to know to get as much top line out of this year as we can.
And then may be -- sorry.
When we spoke back in November I think we were continuing a consistent diagnostic observation about what was happening around the free apps and activity monitor space which have always been closely related to consumers perception of weight management and we admitted at the time that the hardest thing to project would be coming into the key diet season whether the rising interest in these devices from a trial perspective is going to have a bigger impact than the trend had suggested.
And we have seen that if you look in everything from Internet search trends to app store rankings to share a voice in social media you can see that it was indeed a very crowded and noisy environment within which we saw a trial as we started this year.
And then maybe I just -- I have a question about whether there are any limitations on your ability to provide support online and actually get paid for it.
Somebody I think I have heard that they are in your contract with franchises there are limits on how you do that.
Can you talk a little bit about is that's true and how you work around it? I think there is a degree to which we can address this.
And I think fundamentally that we are seeing in concert with everyone who operates Weight Watchers brand and service in the country now that things that might have been true in 10 20 years ago things that might have been associated with choices we made 5 to 10 years ago about how we offer our products are probably not what the consumer of today is looking for.
And as we work with our franchise partners we're going to need to solve the consumers problems and we think we can do that we know we have the assets to do that and we think we have the operating flexibility to do that.
We are learning and we are sharing with our franchise partners and we are looking strategically at the future hand-in-hand to make sure that we can bring everything Weight Watchers has to bear against the new consumer definition of the fitness in weight management markets.
And then my final question would be about you're talking about rightsizing the organization but I'm not exactly sure what that means.
You've obviously used outside contractors a lot; you have to be very careful how you cut marketing.
So what does it mean to right size? Well I've talked about it Meredith in terms of what G&amp;A it means that kind of I think 2014 will be watershed year for the company that will reduce G&amp;A after four years of increases.
We've locked on in our G&amp;A target and committed to reducing G&amp;A the mix of headcount reductions and professional fees reductions is being finalized both will play an important role in that 2014 exercise.
What I would like to stress though that as we managed G&amp;A and frankly every other cost on the P&amp;L we would like to feel that we're being responsible in showing aggressive P&amp;L managements in the short-term but it's within a long-term strategic focus.
That's because we are confident as Jim has said that we do have the right strategy to change the recruitment trajectory and that's why while we're managing costs tightly we are continuing to invest in the future and that's reflected in the guidance that we've given.
And our next question will be from Glen Santangelo -- I'm sorry Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Well Jim I wanted to ask you about analyst day at Analyst Day you were willing to look a little bit beyond 2014 into 2015.
You seem to suggest that there was a possibility we would see some revenue growth out in 2015.
Kind of curious if you're still comfortable with that.
And then kind of as a follow-up when I look at the structural problems created by the free apps and the activity monitors it kind of seems like may be that structural problem is gaining a little bit of momentum.
And so I appreciate all the detail on the four pillar strategy but I'm kind of curious as you sort of move forward it feels like you're moving continuing down the same path with Jessica Simpson.
On the marketing front it seems like a little bit of more of the same to us and I'm kind of curious to get your perspective and do you think if it's time to rethink the playbook on the marketing front and also rethink the playbook on the way you distribute the product to your end consumers? Let me take the -- And I think it's during the Analyst Day.
So I'm just kind of curious if there has been any change in your thinking given may be the development of these structural issues? Right Glen I'll take the first piece.
Basically we said at Analyst Day that we were confident that our recruitment trajectory would turn during 2015 and that we return to revenue growth in '16 and become $2 billion Company in 2018.
We believe that as much as ever and its single-digit CAGR from the 2014 starting point to get there.
We're confident we can turnaround the B2C business and Collins making no great no inroads on the healthcare side of the house also.
And Glen just to confirm your second question had two pieces essentially product strategy relative to free apps and marketing playbook and is the current tactical approach more of the same? Yes Nick It just kind of feels like with respect to the marketing program you're going to rerun the Jessica Simpson ads and obviously that would help recruitment to some extent but it just kind of feels like -- I'm kind of getting your perspective do you feel like the structural problems of the apps and activity monitors do you feel like it's actually getting worse here in 2014 relative to what we experienced in the past 18 months and if so do you have to rethink the playbook on those fronts to try to deal with those pressures? All right.
So I think tactically we have reacted.
I don't know that I would say rethink the playbook that's management interpretation so I'll try to build on that.
But let me go back to the free app I mentioned for the moment.
What has gotten more challenging is reaching breaking through the consumer noise to present the message.
If you're in any space of consumer consideration around weight and fitness it got much more active through the fourth quarter and into the first quarter so far this year.
And I think that means on one level we have to be louder and we have to be more direct and unfortunately that wasn't the tactic we took with the free apps that we ran initially.
I'll come back to the product side of this but I'll then I'm going to bridge now to the marketing side.
So we had through analysis understood that what was not working was the breakthrough in association with Simple Start as a new way to going Weight Watchers.
Well three of the four ads that was just not breaking through for the other it was just happening at a category north.
But diagnostically putting two pieces of information together when we watch the real time relationship between now Jessica on TV in a better PR kind of environment doing a fantastic job talking about her real experience we could see an immediate response in our side of the house with respect to people coming to the website and joining the program.
And so the pivot that we made from a contingency perspective was to leverage that same communication environment and leverage how great she looks now and how honest her report is about her progress and that's essentially the edge you're going to see next week.
Stepping up a little bit from that we have a giant opportunity with this brand.
We're a category leading brand that is so well known in its space that's really important to people.
And I think fundamentally it's a difficult category.
We've done lots of different things over the last five years but what we need to do is we need to operate like that category leader from a brand aspiration perspective.
We need to build the brand architecture that's going to allow us to put our products and benefits underneath that and shout like a category leader.
And a big move forward in that regard is having people who can do that and I will put pressure on her and point to at the same time I think having worked with Jessica I know she can do that.
And so we're upping the challenge on ourselves to reframe how we approach the brand and reframe how we're going to leverage marketing inside this category.
We know when we get it right there is a tremendous consumer response and we think we can do much better.
Finally with respect to the free app from a product perspective what I've said is we certainly compete on one level for consideration with respect to all the noise that's happening there but on another level free app beating them it's just not our strategic objective.
This is an enormous market and we are the leader.
We're focused on building this market by delivering results; delivering weight loss for people and making them feel better about their lives making them feel healthier.
So we compete with them for consideration but that's not the strategic objective to beat the free app phenomena.
We can do much much better.
And the next question will be from Jerry Herman of Stifel.
I just want to circle back to the rightsizing or costs perspective.
Nick previously you sort of benchmarked what you thought the cost structure of an organization this size should be and I'm wondering if you could maybe update that to help us determine what incremental savings you guys might be looking at? Yes certainly Jerry we upsized our cost saving goal on Investor Day to $150 million and we're going to achieve that goal quicker and I stress within that $150 million cost savings goal all that includes from a marketing standpoint is the rightsizing of spend in '13.
So it's taking out $90 million of costs across operating expense and G&amp;A and operating expense has everything from looking at vendor efficiencies to the number of meetings we need to drop in ours et cetera.
In G&amp;A it's building on our progress last year on professional fees keeping doing that but also having the headcount reductions that we've discussed.
So of that $90 million of OpEx in G&amp;A that we were going to achieve by the end of this year as part of the $150 million plan that's probably split two-thirds OpEx one-third G&amp;A.
So a big chunk out of both and as we are stressing we are deliberately preserving investment in tax this year so that we can use Dan and his expertise to revamp our tax capabilities but we will be focused on tax efficiencies going forward also.
Just a point to add about how we are doing this.
As Nick said before but now in my words we are working hard on the cost agenda but we are protecting our path to growth and doing this very strategically.
It is comparatively easy to have a blind and blanket x percent cost challenge pushed onto an organization it is comparatively more difficult but at the same time want to build an organization that is cheaper but it's also more agile and it's more fit for purpose.
And these are the possibilities that we are putting together and I'm confident we are doing that well and the senior team has engaged on that.
And as I said the plan is not final but that's our goal for the processes to come out of the other side of the exercise as an organization that is -- it is smaller and it is responsible from a P&amp;L perspective but it's also better.
Jim question for you I know you get this one a lot but just wanted to get your updated thoughts here on your value proposition and when I think about that I think about what you charge in price and what it costs you.
And it sounds like you're talking about some enhanced services perhaps that implies higher cost.
And then likewise can you just address your most recent thoughts on price relative to competition? I won't say too much about price yes we are looking a range of very significant potential product enhancements.
Some would bring more cost and periodically more pricing potential but that's down the road we're not at that point of thinking about that yet.
With respect to the other side of the value proposition if you will there is a when we do the research looking at our products looking at competitive products clearly at the level of tools versus having a program and a plan at the level of tools there are things that are increasingly becoming available for free.
There is a piece of this and it's becoming commoditized.
I don't think that's the piece that drive success and therefore I'm don't think that's the piece that's going to determine the value proposition of our products going forward.
We have to put more of the enhancements that you're referring to into the products but we have such a broad field of opportunity that I'm confident that we can do that.
But I'm not going to talk too much to pricing in the short-term and well Nick if you want to add to that? No I think the only thing I would add is that in every area of the business I see the Weight Watchers team really being market facing and deciding what we need to do to have a winning value proposition for the customers.
So for example during our winter diet season offer and our promotional approach we reduced the hurdle the upfront financial commitment if you will that somebody needed to pay at the moment of sign-up to join the Weight Watchers online.
And so that shows the mentality of the market facing effort that Jim is bringing to the company.
And the next question will come from R.
J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Had a question regarding the technology investments for not only 2014 and beyond really wanted to get a sense for how you approach the make versus buy decision with respect to technology investments.
Or more directly have you valuated certain mobile platforms that already exist and have proven successful with respect to recruitment efforts that you might be able to roll into the current Weight Watchers platform? Have you evaluated that as potentially better use of capital than building something in-house? Just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
I think those are great questions.
The first part of this is a bit of a deferral but in a good way the next call we will have Dan Crow talk to you about he is our new CTO and he will talk to you about his vision and his direction integrating the technology environment with the product development environment here at Weight Watchers.
And I would say in crude evaluation we know we have a significant opportunity to build things that are not only consumer validated but they happened more quickly and overall they happen much more productively.
We know we have some challenges to work through the historical technology architecture and we will do that and Dan will share that as I said.
With respect to make versus buy we are very open to both pads there and in fact we will do a fair amount of our healthcare developments on the outside with folks who had done that before and not pay to do the learning for the first time.
So very open to that as a technical strategy and we will talk more deeply about that on the next call when Dan shares his thoughts.
Yes the only thing I would add to that of course within the definition of buy that can include the partnerships to so it's not like acquisitions or a necessary prerequisite of our strategy a lots of folks we can partner with along the way.
Our next question will come from Matthew Jacob of ITG Investment Research.
Just a little bit ago you mentioned that you reduced the upfront hurdle to join online which I think referred to the elimination of the initiation fee during January.
I guess one thing is it seems like that probably encouraged new members to sign up for a one month plan which had the best value this year rather than a three month plan which traditionally had been the best value for new members.
So wondering if you have a way to kind of measure the engagement of these new one month members and any color on what you expect that promotion shift to be to churn and average membership duration for online? Because last year you had these new members locked in typically for three months whereas this year you only have them locked in for one month are now kind of seeing them come up for renewal.
It's a good question and we look at our retention across Weight Watchers online very carefully for every cohort like you should imagine with that offer there was a sizable shift in the number of folks that are not choosing that option somewhere in the range of close to half of the U.S.
subscribers.
I think it was a good play and some good learning's for us to apply to our promotional strategy going forward.
I haven't seen it resulting in any material retention member loss issues so for but we will continue to track it.
I guess it's early to judge that given that a lot of people probably haven't had a chance to churn yet.
Are there -- is there a higher churn or lower duration baked into your assumptions for this year the guidance you issued? Probably that's -- that strategy is something we had tried to previously in another market.
So we had some familiarity with it.
So we are comfortable right now with our assumptions in that regard.
And next we have follow-up question from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Meredith Adler - Barclays Capital Yes I just want to know whether you have actually sized the cost of what you will be doing in the first quarter.
How much are you going to spend on resizing the organization or is it too early to say that? Yes Meredith it's Nick.
I think it's too early to say because our plans are not finalized and that's why the guidance we've given excludes those severance costs.
But I would be surprised by still what I know today of the total cost of the plan it wasn't mid to high single digit.
Mid to high single-digit? Million.
Million? I don't say no no basically I believe it will be more than $5 million.
The exact amount will depend on the finalization of the plan.
And then I would like to just follow-up on the last question before mine about what is built into your guidance.
You said that you have experience in other markets with the one month program.
Are you saying that you used the information you had from those experiences to embed in your guidance about how many people will not be retained after the one month? Yes I'm saying we use that experience to decide to use the approach in the United States and our forecast includes the right assumptions.
We know the model of retention for one-month sign-ups.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jim Chambers for any closing remarks.
Yes I would just like to thank everybody for joining the call today and thank you for your interest in our company.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Corey Kinger.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ed and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International first quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer and Dan Crowe our Chief Technology Officer.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2014 first quarter results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim.
Thanks Corey and good afternoon everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Since our last earnings call on February 13<sup>th</sup> we have been focused on advancing our transformation plan and my remarks today will cover our progress.
In addition to taking you through the details of our Q1 financial results Nick will give you a progress update on our cost management initiatives and review our outlook for 2014.
Also here with me today is our Chief Technology Officer Dan Crow who joined the company late last year.
As we indicated our last call we have asked Dan to speak directly with you today about our technology reinvention with an emphasis on how it relates to creating new products.
I'll get started with a progress update on our transformation plan.
To recap our four strategic pillars are one driving immediate performance improvement.
Two reimagining our core offering.
Three growing our healthcare business.
Four strengthening our organization.
Turning to our first pillar driving immediate performance improvement the competitive frame of the weight loss market continues to evolve as free apps and activity monitors generate significant consumer interest and influence to trial dynamics in the category.
In that context our pillar one performance priorities for 2014 are centered on consumer activation member engagement and cost reduction.
Q1 revenue of $409 million and net income of $21.5 million or $0.38 per share came in better than expected.
The continued significant year-over-year declines reflect the fact that we are still facing serious challenges especially in North America and the U.K.
which saw declines in paid weeks both in meetings and online.
That said our recruitment trends while still negative are no longer getting worse.
In response to continued weak recruitment performance early in Q1 our business units took quick action which helped our result somewhat as we moved through the balance of the quarter.
New advertising creative helped in a number of markets most notably North America and the U.K.
North America shot new ads featuring Jessica Simpson while the UK created new ads highlighting the power of food and food choice.
Adapting our advertising continued in Q2 as we roll out fresh creative with markets benefiting from each other's learning.
The U.S.
and Germany for example added food-focused ads modeled on the U.K.
approach to their rotation to begin the spring campaign.
The teams also have been exploring new promotional tactics with discounts on long tenured packages in North America and group buying discounts moving the needle in the U.K.
and continental Europe.
Here too the activity continues into Q2.
Our retention performance in the quarter remains in line with the past.
We continue to focus on member engagement and our efforts to connect more directly with members early in their tenure are showing promise.
While it's still too soon to fully read results we are learning more about how to help members get off to a strong start with our program leveraging increased contact with service providers in person and through digital support.
In addition we are opening up our platform for integration with leading activity monitors and expect our implementation to begin in Europe in the middle of this year.
Expense management remains an important focus for the company and one to which we are fully committed.
Nick will expand on the details but highlights include exiting select money-losing international operations a restructuring of our headquarters and field organizations and better alignment of our meeting network.
Our transformation plan calls for $150 million in gross annualized cost savings across 2013 and 2014 and we are on track to hit this target.
While we continued to take cost out we're also investing in the future.
Most notably in our forward product strategy and in our healthcare initiatives which brings me to pillars two and three.
Pillar two is our product strategy and it calls for reimagining our core offering.
While the bulk of our effort is focused on prototyping changes for 2015 and beyond we are addressing near-term opportunities as well.
In 2014 we are expanding our program instructions through webcasts improving our search and tracking performance and opening up our platform to integration with leading activity monitors.
Looking ahead we are implementing fundamental changes in how we define and present Weight Watchers.
Our future product roadmap and the positioning of our brand will be underpinned by five tenants which I would like to share now.
First we will always retain our leading position with respect to efficacy and trust.
Satisfaction and proven results are critical to a successful weight loss program.
The second product tenant is leveraging community and person-to-person interaction.
We have always had this in our meetings business and have confirmed that tools alone technology alone food programming alone will never reach the levels of success or possible in their combined with human engagements to guide and provide accountability.
The strength of the Weight Watchers brand is and always will be in the human connections that make a weight loss journey successful between members and our service provider between members and other members and between members and their social circles.
Moving forward we will be bringing this to the digital environment adding human interaction to the online model.
Third is personalization.
While consumers continue to give us great credit for being a plan that works we fall short on being quote "a plan for someone like me" which is the number one driver of consumer interest in the category and underpins much of what we know as the do-it-yourself market the biggest compliment of the weight loss market.
Personalization covers our means of interaction group one-on-one digital and in person as well as how we individualize our program and support model.
Fourth and in some ways most important is the opening up of the brand.
Weight Watchers has incredible potential to be a broader and more inviting brand.
It can represent an invitation to a movement rewarding members for their participation and progress in addition to their in-state achievements.
Living a healthier life is not a sprint to the finish line but a lifelong journey.
Finally we will be consumer-driven in everything we do.
We're listening to the consumer we are learning and we are leveraging these insights as we develop both the product elements and the marketing positioning of our offering.
These five tenants of our offer strategy or sound but by themselves they won't transform our company.
We need to couple them with the expansion of capability and our service provider networks and the creation of an advantaged product development process with a particular focus on digital.
In our call on February 13<sup>th</sup> I indicated that internally we had chosen our direction for winter diet season 2015 innovation.
I can add some color to the statement at this point by confirming consistent with our longer term product strategy that I just reviewed we will be expanding the personalization content of our offer and leveraging our service providers through tailored one-on-one member interaction.
We believe this represents a significant opportunity to reach new consumers and provide program guidance inspiration and accountability delivered to their individual needs.
Let me turn to pillars three growing our healthcare business.
We have known for some time that the healthcare channel represents a significant and logical opportunity for Weight Watchers.
We feel we can be relevant to both the wellness and medical subsets of the healthcare market and create a significant incremental channel for the acquisition of new consumers.
As previously communicated we are committing the resources necessary to deliver on the requirements of this channel.
These capabilities will also enable us to fuel growth in our existing strategic employer market.
In particular we are making progress on our technology capabilities including data management at an individual level further enhancements to our privacy protection and process improvements around such areas as eligibility verification billing and reporting.
Over the past several months we have approved the significant investment to upgrade our systems infrastructure and core processes to help ensure that we are broadly capable of servicing the healthcare sector beginning in 2015.
Our discussions with interested healthcare companies are progressing well.
As we outlined on Investor Day we expect meaningful revenue contribution beginning in 2016 and beyond.
In the near-term we remain optimistic that with the supporting check enablement we could have a partnership in place for market entry potentially as early as the 2015 benefits season.
In March we launched Weight Watchers for diabetes through our direct employer channel which serves and meet needs of employees with Type 2 diabetes by integrating personalized coaching into the Weight Watchers proven approach.
In addition to attending Weight Watchers meetings and using our digital tools participants are paired with a certified diabetes educator and dietitian who are specially trained in the Weight Watchers approach.
Orlando Health one of Florida's most comprehensive private not-for-profit healthcare networks signed on as our first organization to offer Weight Watchers for Diabetes to its employees.
We have developed a unique employee marketing program for Weight Watchers for Diabetes and have equipped our Health Solutions sales team with a strong selling story for current and new customers.
We have designed this program to handle a scale up of members over time and expect that there will be a steady market adoption of the new offering.
Lastly we continue to make progress on our fourth pillar strengthening the organization.
We have built a strong senior management team which with the joining of our new General Counsel Michael Colosi in a few weeks will be complete.
Our recent organizational restructuring evidences the strong steps we are taking to improve the way we operate both in terms of simplifying workflows and accountabilities as well as reducing G&amp;A spend.
We are excited about our new partnership with advertising agency Wieden Kennedy in the U.S.
with whom we are working hard to understand the potential for repositioning our brand and supporting our new product strategy and we are hard at work bringing change to our technology capability set.
We have been constrained by legacy architecture and methodologies in our current systems but that is now undergoing a complete transformation under Dan Crowe's leadership.
Now I will turn it over to Dan and let him share his views and provide an update on our technology strategy.
Dan? Thanks Jim.
I am very excited to join Weight Watchers as the new CTO.
Technology is central to the company's future.
I believe we have a great opportunity to uplift our technology capability and drive real product innovation which combined with our considerable assets will help return this company to growth and expand our leadership position.
A little background I have a broad technology perspective developed as a consultant with IBM Delloitte and Accenture and as an operator.
This is my third sea-level executive role leading a technology and product organization.
Previously I was Chief Information Officer and then Chief Product Officer AutoTrader.com the leading online automotive marketplace.
My kind of fame there was that I helped to build a tremendous product development capability that jumpstarting innovation and propelled AutoTrader.com to market leadership.
We won many J.D.
Power awards for consumer experience and we were able to compete and win against other nimble startup as well as free alternatives like Craigslist and Google Organic Search.
I am bringing that same commitment to innovation and startup energy to Weight Watchers.
We need to uncork the pent-up demand for innovation and I feel confident that we can do so.
I have been here five months now and I feel like I have my arms around the situation.
It's obvious that Weight Watchers has had success in the past with technology.
The online offering had been successful in what I would characterize as a mid-2000s technology model and when I arrived the team is still working in that model.
We should all appreciate that Weight Watchers' technology runs a large-scale operations supporting millions of members millions of downloaded apps around the world and tracking over 1 billion food items in our database but that is not enough.
The great commercial success of our weightwatchers.com products led us to behave as an incumbent and as a result we were slow to adopt the technology capability that is required to meet changing consumer expectation and compete in the digital era characterized by mobile social connected devices and open API.
Technology plays a central and enabling role in the reimagining of our products and product development is a major focus area for us.
We are challenging the assumptions and approaches the drove our past success and we are accelerating our migration from the old technology models which are now too slow and too costly.
We are widening our innovation pipeline to align with the rising expectations of consumers and partners in a rapidly changing space.
We are expanding our offerings to better serve current members and enhance our appeal to a broader set of potential members.
We are becoming bolder and faster to be more like the innovators who are entering the space.
We have an ambitious technology vision.
We will become a 21<sup>st</sup>-century technology organization engineered for the digital era whose innovative technology fundamentally improves the way people manage their weight health and wellness.
We will be agile service-oriented data-driven cloud-enabled and efficient.
We will be a model for digital technology in the markets in which we compete and we will be a magnet for talented innovators both inside and outside the company.
Technology is essential for the company's overall transformation plan.
The entire executive team is committed to a 12-month horizon for turning our technology-base from a legacy challenge into an enabling asset.
When we get there we will be able to launch a product in a matter of months.
Not a year.
Quickly learn from the market and iterate in two-week sprints rather than release many months later.
Expand our offerings of both new and existing spaces with strategic partners and become a strong player in the API economy.
No one is better positioned than Weight Watchers to be a hub of a weight loss health and fitness ecosystem fueled by the latest technology innovation.
Most importantly we will be able to say that we recognize the inflection point and we transformed from being disrupted to being the disruptive.
In so doing we will have returned this great company to grow.
In terms of specifics how will we fulfill the station? By pursuing six paths to technology transformation.
First we are embracing the new economics of technology.
The world of technology has changed dramatically.
We are adopting variable cost models including cloud and other as-a-service capabilities and open-source.
Additionally we have taken steps to contain legacy spending and restructure key vendor relationships.
Second we are mobilizing for innovation and agility we are adapting agile development processes we are deploying joint product and technology teams highly aligned with Catherine Ulrich our Chief Product Officer and her team.
We are adopting modern DevOps processes to help improve quality and we are adopting a mindset of launch fast learn fast iterate fast.
Third we are modernizing our architecture and platform.
It is essential that we move to new newer more modern technologies including open-source and cloud and with upgrades to content management search and database technologies.
We have launched a new tech platform project which we call the [chassis] and we are taking big step in our device integration capability as well.
Fourth we are strengthening the technology organization.
We are reorganizing the technology group.
We are launching new innovation teams which we call green team to drive improvements in our digital experiences.
It's essential that we instill a culture of innovation and performance and adopt more of the startup mentality.
We will take advantage of our presence amidst the Silicon Alley [hotbed] New York City and add a footprint in Silicon Valley.
Fifth we are building a data and insight engine.
We can take much better advantage of our vast data stores referenced earlier which could be a significant source of differentiation.
We are evaluating new technologies like Big Data and advanced analytics which can offer enhanced capabilities to better understand the needs of our members.
Sixth we are opening up to the outside world.
As Jim said we recognize that we don't have to do it ourselves.
Let's deploy the platform and APIs that allow us to partner quickly and effectively.
Let's identify the innovators who can help us expand our offerings and our market space.
A great example of this last point is a recent acquisition.
Earlier this month we acquired Wello a San Francisco-based startup that offers one-on-one and group fitness training online delivered with leading-edge technology.
Wello leverages technology to offer consumers the convenience of working out when and where they like plus the motivation and accountability of a personal trainer.
I am impressed with Wello's talent their technology and their platform for delivering personalized services which is aligned with the personalization agenda that Jim mentioned earlier.
Further Wello helps us establish a foothold in the Silicon Valley technology community and they will help us develop strategic opportunities.
We are very pleased to welcome Wello into the Weight Watchers' family.
In summary we have a big task at hand but we have a huge prize that lies before us as we follow our new path and achieve our vision.
I look forward to taking your questions and providing future update.
Thank you.
Now I will turn it back to Jim.
Thanks Dan.
To repeat what Dan said we are all committed to a 12-month horizon for turning our technology base from the legacy challenge into an enabling asset.
We have the resources and I'm confident if we are resolute and act with urgency the team can do it.
Now I will turn it over to Nick for more detail on our financial performance and a look ahead for the balance of 2014.
Nick.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
As previously discussed at the start of 2014 we realign our organizational and reporting structure shifting to geographic segments reflecting the managerial integration of our meetings and online businesses.
We now have four reportable segments.
North America United Kingdom Continental Europe and Other.
Reported EPS was $0.38 compared to $0.87 in the prior year's first quarter.
My remarks regarding company performance will exclude both the acquisition related Brazil gain and the Q1 restructuring expense.
Excluding these two items which I will touch on a bit later we delivered EPS of $0.31.
Total company revenue declined 16.6% in Q1.
Meeting fees and online revenues experienced declines of 16.5% and 11.7% respectively.
In-Meeting product sales declined 25.3% and all other revenue declined 17.4%.
During Q1 we saw some signs of stabilization in our top-line trends as we made some adjustments to our advertising which had a positive impact on recruitment trends relative to what we have been seeing prior to the advertising changes particularly in the U.K.
and in our North American Meetings business.
First quarter total paid weeks were down 13.9% primarily driven by declines in meetings and online in the U.K.
and North America.
End of period total global active subscribers declined 13.7% to 3.6 million from 4.2 million a year ago.
Monthly pass active subscribers declined 12.6% to 1.5 million and active online subscribers declined 14.5% on a year-over-year basis to 2.2 million.
Despite nimble cost management our lower revenue had a substantial pressure on the P&amp;L resulting in a Q1 operating income decline of $52.1 million or 50.5%.
Turning to our results by geographic segment which I will discuss on a constant currency basis our North America business remained under pressure.
In the first quarter total North America revenues declined 20.6%.
Within this meeting fees declined 20.3% and online revenue declined 16.9%.
Meetings paid weeks declined 18.3% online paid weeks declined 16.5%.
In-Meeting product sales declined 33.6% with product sales per attendee down 16.5% primarily driven by lower sales of enrollments product.
Our U.K.
business also remained under pressure.
In the first quarter total revenue was down 19.2% which includes meeting fees down 18.2% and online revenue down 12.4%.
Meetings paid weeks declined 17.6% online paid weeks declined 12%.
In-Meeting product sales declined 27.6% with product sales per attendee down 16.4%.
During the quarter we did see improving recruitment trends in the U.K.
as we revamped our marketing approach.
In the Continental Europe total revenues decreased 1.3%.
Online revenue increased 9.4% but was partially offset by meetings fee decline of 3.3%.
Online paid weeks increased 6.6% benefiting from a higher active subscriber base at the beginning of the year as compared to the beginning of fiscal 2013 partially offset by negative recruitments in the quarter.
Meeting paid weeks declined 3% and In-Meeting product sales declined 7.9% with product sales per attendee down 5.4%.
Within Continental Europe France was a notable highlight for the quarter with strong performance driven by an effective promotional activity.
Now I will cover recent geographic portfolio developments.
Towards the end of last year we assessed our portfolio and made the decision to focus our resources on markets with the highest near-term potential.
Since we last spoke we shut down our operations in Denmark and took a controlling position in our Brazil partnership.
We will continue to assess our portfolio but with these changes in addition to the closure of China at the end of 2013 we do not expect additional portfolio actions in the remainder of 2014.
During the quarter we acquired an additional 45% equity interest in our Brazilian partnership for $14 million.
Thereby increasing our equity interest to 80% we had been a minority owner in the partnership which is the number one of weight management brand in Brazil for more than 40 years.
While not currently a big contributor to our financial results Brazil represents an attractive growth opportunity.
The business is profitable and has local management and team members in place that have been operating the business with a successful track record of growth.
As a result of this Brazil transaction we recorded a pre-tax gain of $10.5 million or $0.11 a share in Q1.
Now I will review some key financial metrics for Q1 2014.
We incurred a pre-tax restructuring charge of $3.7 million or $0.04 per share in connection with the first phase of our previously disclosed plan to resize the organization.
We continue to expect to have approximately $10 million in restructuring expenses this year split fairly evenly between OpEx and G&amp;A with the majority of the remainder to be expensed in Q2.
In total we will have reduced our global headcount including in both headquarters and field management by 250 physicians or approximately 15%.
We are implementing major field restructurings in the U.S.
and the U.K.
and there have been headcount reductions in most countries' end functions.
Our philosophy continues to be investing in key areas in support of future growth but to cut aggressively elsewhere.
We continue to make good progress to our gross annual run rate savings goal and recall that we are targeting to reduce our cost base by $150 million as compared to the end of 2012 and we are on track to achieve this goal by the end of the year.
To review the details of the $150 million cost savings plan in 2013 we achieved cost savings of approximately $90 million by rightsizing our marketing spend by $60 million and reducing OpEx and G&amp;A by a total of $30 million.
In 2014 we plan to further reduce costs by $60 million exclusively from OpEx and G&amp;A savings.
While we do expect our marketing spend to be lower than prior we are not relying on additional marketing spend reductions to achieve the $150 million savings goal.
Of the $60 million of OpEx and G&amp;A run rate savings in 2014 approximately two-thirds is OpEx and one-third is G&amp;A.
Operating expense reductions include vendor efficiencies reductions in number of meetings we need the drop in hours and field restructurings.
In G&amp;A we are building on our progress last year on professional fees and other corporate expenses and also are implementing the headcount reductions that we have discussed.
Now to the P&amp;L detail excluding the impact of the restructuring expenses.
In the first quarter gross margin declined 300 basis points from the prior year to 54.8% primarily due to operating cost deleverage as well as the impact of our 2013 U.S.
service provider compensation changes.
Q1 marketing spend decreased $6.9 million versus prior to $115.3 million primarily driven by lower production costs and continued focus on digital marketing efficiencies.
Q1 G&amp;A expenses decreased 6.8% versus prior to $54.4 million driven by our cost savings initiatives and some one-time benefits partially offset by ramping spend in connection with our healthcare initiatives.
Our Q1 tax rate was 40.3% driven by international timing issues and in the quarter foreign currency impact on our results was negligible.
Cash flow from operations was $83 million for Q1 and we ended the quarter with $232 million in cash.
Our $2.4 billion outstanding term loans do not have any restrictive leverage related financial covenant and our next meaningful debt maturity is $300 million due in 2016.
Note that our revolving line of credit is undrawn and we have no plans to utilize this bank facility.
Now I will discuss our outlook for 2014.
While our year-over-year recruitment trends are weak they are no longer getting worse.
As a result our revenue is likely to be slightly better than our previous outlook but nonetheless we still expect it to be roughly $1.4 billion for the full-year.
For Q2 and the full-year we anticipate year-over-year revenue and paid weeks' trend to be down mid-teens roughly in line with Q1.
In North America we anticipate that Q2 and full-year revenues will decline in the low 20s and total paid weeks will decline in the high-teens with meetings paid weeks performing slightly better than online paid weeks.
In the U.K.
for Q2 and the year we expect revenue and total paid weeks to decline in the low teens reflecting some improvement versus Q1 with online and meetings paid weeks performing similarly.
For Continental Europe we expect revenues for Q2 and the year to be essentially flat and in line with Q1.
Total paid weeks are expected to be flat for the second quarter and for 2014 as a whole with online paid weeks performing a bit better than meetings paid weeks.
Onto gross margin as we move through the year we continue to expect gross margins to decline by up to 400 basis points with Q2's decline being slightly less than that.
This decline is driven primarily by operating deleverage and also includes the incremental expense related to our U.S.
service provider compensation program that we implemented in 2013.
We now anticipate that full year marketing expense will decline by at least $25 million with a substantial portion of the incremental savings coming in Q2.
For the full-year we continue to expect G&amp;A to be down low single-digit percentages versus prior.
As we move through the year G&amp;A will be impacted as we ramp up our investments in our strategic initiatives.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense of approximately $125 million.
For the full-year our tax rate will be approximately 36% as a result of an unusually low rate in Q2 of approximately 32.5% due to tax benefits from the write-off of intercompany company debt following the shutdowns of China and Denmark.
For 2014 we expect to spend about $50 million on CapEx with D&amp;A for the year of about $45 million.
With the company's $232 million cash balance and continued positive cash flow generation this year the company has strong liquidity.
As demonstrated by Wello and Brazil we continue to pursue selective investments but paying down debt remains our capital structure priority.
We are raising our 2014 EPS guidance to a range of $1.45 $1.70.
This guidance excludes the $0.11 Brazil one-time gain from Q1 the anticipated positive $0.07 Q2 tax rate adjustment and the full-year $0.11 of severance costs related to our restructuring.
Thanks everyone.
I will now hand the call back to Jim.
Thank you Nick.
In closing we still have a lot of work ahead of us but I am encouraged by the progress we have made in our transformation plan so far this year.
The remainder 2014 will certainly be challenging as we face a difficult recruitment environment.
With the team as energized motivated and focused.
I'm confident we have the plan people and tools in place to deliver into 2015.
Thanks for joining our call today.
We will now open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks and good evening.
Jim I just wanted to kind of follow-up on some of the comments you all made in your prepared remarks and your recruitment trends are no longer getting worse.
It kind of sounds like when we spoke last time in February you were clearly seen year-over-year declines that to some extent I guess were a little bit steeper more concerning than maybe what you had expected in Analyst Day.
Can you give us a better sense for maybe what changed in March and have you seen that sort of continue throughout April here.
I think someone in the prepared remarks suggested that it was some of the advertising changes.
Could you just maybe give us a sense for maybe what you are doing different that maybe drove that inflection point because it certainly doesn't seem like the competitive landscape has really changed any.
Yes.
Sure but I am actually ask Nick to comment on that but just dimension wise is we are talking about smaller changes not larger changes.
Nick you want to take that?  Yes.
Look I think that's absolutely right Jim.
The environment is a little bit better but the headline here's result forecasting revenue of roughly a $1.4 billion so still $300 million below last year and that's what's driving the P&amp;L.
Yes but versus our Analyst Day going into the first quarter at start of the first quarter things did deteriorate and we are pleased to see that they are no longer getting worse.
We were seeing signs of stability.
As you mentioned Glen the competitive frame isn't really different so what I think we are seeing in '14 is what we hope to see that Weight Watchers team translating the energy sore on own cost in '13 into innovation and marketing for the tech innovation that Dan talked about.
We introduced the new ads with Jessica we mentioned like all the new foods-focused that initiated in the U.K.
now we bought the U.S.
for U.S.
spring campaign.
I think the business as a whole worked well on the effective promotional tools including at CRM.
There was a little bit local marketing in the U.K.
There is a lot of little things on the - it feels a little bit better but recruitment trends are still very weak for this business.
I appreciate the color on the recruitment side.
Jim I think if I heard you you said that the retention what you are seeing is being sorted in line with the past.
I mean can you maybe elaborate in terms of your sort of customer duration.
I mean it sounds like no changes to that kind of eight months sort of estimate and I am just trying to figure out as we sort of model out the water flow here for the rest of the year.
Basically should we assume that the retention based on some of your reference you are not really seen any meaningful changes in retention at this time.
Is that a fair assessment? Yes.
Far as you are modeling that will be your modeling obviously but we are seeing stability in that statistic.
That's correct.
Okay.
Then Nick last question I mean you obviously shutdown Denmark I mean some of these closures of some of these money-losing operation.
Is that really helping EPS in any meaningful way that's worth mentioning?  No.
That is really not a big driver of the year's results.
We were pleased to be able to focus our activities on better near-term opportunities and that was the rationale behind increasing investments in Brazil.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question comes from Jason Anderson of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Good evening guys.
Thanks for all the color on the technology plan.
I guess it seems quite like a tremendous task ahead and you were mentioning a 12-month plan.
I assume maybe not all of that is happening or maybe could you provide some more color on maybe a little bit more what you expect in a 12-month is it.
I am thinking your meaning and 12 months you'll be able to address the healthcare opportunity more with your systems or technology platform is.
Could you elaborate? Sure.
This is Dan.
Actually I think we can do a little better than that.
We need to have the platforms in place for healthcare initiative by the end of the year and we are targeting on that.
We definitely are focusing on product and innovation and then healthcare platforms to make that happen.
I do believe that a year from now we can say we have significantly moved away from our legacy systems we have developed a much faster much more robust product innovation engine sitting on a new platform and then really the investment in the core business systems that are driven by healthcare initiative will be in place.
Great.
Thanks.
Then could you provide any framing on maybe cost or the investment into that? I know you guys have done a lot already but it seems like there's still plenty more to go and how should we think about that in relation to the cost-cutting? Well I'll jump in and let Nick help me out but we invest a lot in tech already and we've approved a major investment in healthcare.
I think we have a fair bit to work with and we need to get more out of that investment.
What I'm trying to do is redirect legacy spend and shrink that down and a lot of our legacy spend is somewhat discretionary because it is with the professional fees and we can dial that back or redirect it if we want to so I think we have some degree of freedom there so I'm trying to work with what I have any additional investment that's been authorized for the healthcare initiative and work within our exiting plan.
Look I think that's absolutely right Dan.
This year as Dan said the focus is on using tech reinvention to improve our innovation and product building capabilities.
Frankly that's partly why we were forecasting our G&amp;A to decrease low single-digit this year so tech efficiencies and savings on a meaningful driver of our G&amp;A forecast this year going forward in the out years as Dan pursues his reinvention it could be a useful lever going forward.
Great.
Thanks for all the color.
Our next question comes from Sean Kraus of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Meredith Adler from Barclays.
I guess I would like to talk about two things.
I think this question was sort of asked but I was hoping to get even a little more detail.
Can you actually tie the recruitment behavior to new ad that comes out did weather have any kind of an impact? Then I guess kind of what gives you the confidence that what we are seeing you say it's stabilized but how do you know that we are just not I hate to say it but just a fluke in the last month or two.
Yes.
Look there was certainly a lot of bad weather particularly in the U.S.A.
in the first few weeks of the year and we had multiple meeting closures versus year ago but weather I don't think is a big driver of the stabilization.
I think it's all focused on having the ads connect better with the folks from the promotional activity I described.
Just let me add.
This is Jim Meredith.
This is not a particularly easy business to forecast.
Further given the high variable margins there is a pretty good flow through if estimates go one way or the other so we should we should take this as our best view but it is a difficult business to forecast.
Obviously talking of forecast just one thing I would add.
Look I am aware that Q1 results as a whole of course are ahead of consensus so we acknowledge that results came in a little bit better than we were expecting but of course we don't give details of quarterly guidance such as things were a little bit better the fundamental of the situation of the business hasn't changed.
Okay.
Then I have a sort of more big picture question.
I remember something you said Jim I think back in October about comparing weightwatchers.com to match.com.
To get the math it really do something like match.com.
You not only have to ask people the right questions do you have to be able to give them an outcome that is different and unique for each person and is it fair to say that that is the goal that you will have different.
I think you also at that time used the word flavors.
Our people will be able to go online and get guidance as to the best way for them individually to lose weight? Meredith first off please don't tell my wife I was on match.com.
Second I don't want to talk much more specifically than I did in the prepared remarks about commercial direction and particularly near-term as in January but strategically and thinking of it in the context of the big picture as you asked it I think there's two ways to think about the strategic direction.
One is the content do we bring something that is different for member A than member B that helps them with their weight loss journey.
The second is the engagement model.
Do we bring that through connection with Weight Watchers service provider do we bring that on a one-to-one model do we do that from a group perspective or do we do that purely digitally but all of those things to me represent the potential for flavors as you used the term.
Then my final question would be - out of my head.
I will turn it over to somebody else.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from R.
J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good afternoon.
Just wanted to ask a question about the Wello acquisition because I do think it's an interesting way to tie together the legacy business.
I was hoping to get a little more color about the actual rollout and how to integrate it with the existing business how to communicate that members and more importantly I guess what are the opportunities to create new product based on the technology that they have? Thanks for the question.
I mean just to go back and tie in a bit to what Dan said.
I mean there are three main areas of excitement around the Wello acquisition for us.
First of all we should all recognize that in a good way this is a typical startup.
This is a small company but they have done some great things developing insights around how to serve our client base in a one-to-one model.
They have a great team and pieces of their technology platform we think will be really significant for us as we evolve our products.
I don't want to run too far down the road imagining exactly what the implications are and I won't comment more to them for the same reason I mentioned to Meredith that we won't talk to commercial implications but those are real reasons that we are excited about the Wello acquisition.
Then I guess I had one follow-up question and Jim your line about not having to everything on your kind of struck the cord of me there particularly with regards to integration with activity monitors and some partnerships that you might have there I just want to get more details about what that might entail kind of the timing behind that.
Then as kind of a follow-up to that also what kind of tracking you are seeing with your actively length program namely adoption and [engagement] as well.
Thanks.
Well we still see a strong participation with our members on ActiveLink and with no surprise we know from research that consumers view the process of managing their weight as one that's very closely related to how they think of exercise how they think of fitness so this sits in a very very close consumer space from an adjacency perspective.
We have got most of the technology work done.
We anticipate that we are going to be live with a leading player in that category very soon beginning in Europe as I mentioned and throughout the balance of this year you should see quite a bit more openness as in the ability for us to integrate with other API-driven devices.
Not just activity monitors but I think that's about as far as our comment on.
…agree the ActiveLink always about good learning from seamless integration experience and the open architecture opportunities that could lead to but yet we sold over 400 000 ActiveLink devices and the take-up rate in our monthly pass Active's penetration is in the 10% range so it's a good learning for us.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Alvin Concepcion of Citi.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to follow-up on the Wello acquisition.
It does sound promising.
Just wondering appetite for acquisitions are going forward do you believe there are other areas you need to build out or this sort of fill the needs that you are looking for?  Look I think Wello and Brazil show that we will selectively pursue acquisitions but get us into good businesses or help us build capabilities faster than we might do ourselves on new capabilities.
I think based on what I know now I would look at last year where we had several franchised domestic franchised acquisitions our view as being less acquisitive this year being selective and our capital structure priority is paying down debt.
Great.
Then trying to understand that correctly and correct me if I am wrong but it sounds like we shouldn't expect revenue growth for the full year 2015 but we should in 2016.
With healthcare coming online and being a more significant driver of revenues in 2016 how much of your ability to grow revenues in 2016 is dependent on that contribution from healthcare?  I think look healthcare is an important growth contributor was us overall.
This side we can [correct] $300 million plus business by '18 but the key to us returning to growth is first and foremost the B2C reinvention and yes look at our Analyst Day we said that we would aim to move to positive recruitment trajectory sometime during '15 which would lead to revenue growth in '16.
Obviously it's far too early to talk about what '15 revenue might but I think you see from Jim and Dan that we are focused on probably the best winter diet season 15 that we can.
Yes.
Clearly as Nick said in putting the cost together.
These things they sit together the strength of our B2B business and our healthcare business over time has really been the strength of B2C business.
It's part of what's attractive about us to that channel.
We are also a known brand we are a proven brand or brand that can drive engagement so the strategies by which we strengthened our B2C business place straight into the B2B business… Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks.
I want to talk a little bit about the guidance because I think I am having trouble trying to figure out.
I understand that things aren't fixed yet and then maybe there is a little bit of a just a temporary tailwind but if I look at the upside in the quarter and look at particularly the gross margin guidance and try align kind of the year-over-year changes and things like that.
I am having a hard time to sort of seeing numbers going up by just a small increase that you sort of ran through relative to the upside in this quarter so can you talk about maybe some of the other offsets that were not seen.
Then also just particularly on the gross margin your guidance would indicate and I realize it's sort of up 400 basis points I think is the language but we indicated actually things getting worse against some of your comps in the back half of the year so what's driving that in particular? Thank you.
Thanks John.
Let me kind of walk through the P&amp;L a little bit and give you some color on that.
Prior guidance $1.30 to $1.60 new guidance $1.45 to $1.70 so $1.575 admin point of the range a 9% increase in the midpoint increasing the flow by $0.15 the top end by $0.10.
Starting with the top-line the top-line is a little bit better as we have discussed but still at $1.4 billion company.
Gross margin previous guidance was 400 now it's up to 400 reflecting slight improvement.
Q1 was a 300-basis point deterioration.
It gets worse through the year as we ramp up our investments in a strategic initiative and also through the year given the fact that our .com business is shrinking a high-margin .com business we are down by $75 million or so year-over-year.
Note that mix impact saw our gross margin performance as we go through the year.
Previously guided marking to be reduced by $20 million the marking is a little bit better here so decreased marketing is spend by at least 25.
Then finally G&amp;A the first quarter G&amp;A blueprint was a little bit artificially lower so it also is accurate and correct but it was driven by some one-time items that won't be repeatable through the year and G&amp;A through the year will be impacted also by investments in our strategic initiatives so I would expect the G&amp;A to be higher as we go through the year versus what we achieved in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
This concludes our question and answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Jim Chambers CEO for any closing remarks.
Once again thank you all for your interest in our company and for joining us on the call today.
Thank you.
The conference is now included.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Weight Watchers Second Quarter Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Corey Kinger.
Ms.
Kinger the floor is yours ma'am.
Thank you Mike and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International second quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4 'O clock p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2014 second quarter results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Thanks Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
On today's call I would like to update you on our business performance as well as on the progress we're making on our transformation initiatives.
Nick will then take you through the details of the Q2 financial results give the progress update on our cost management actions and review our outlook for the balance of 2014 as well as an early read into 2015.
My remarks will follow the four strategic pillars of our transformation plan which by way of reminder are one driving immediate performance improvement; two reimagining our core offerings; three growing our healthcare business and four strengthening our organization.
In the second quarter we delivered total revenue of $398 million and excluding special items adjusted operating margins of 30% and adjusted net income of $56 million or $0.98 per share.
The biggest challenge we faced in our business continues to be recruitment as competitive forces continue to impact our current consumer offerings with mobile apps and activity monitors garnering a large amount of consumer and media attention and negatively impacting our consumer trial.
Recruitment is down in a majority of countries in which we operate in both meetings and online.
Importantly however once consumers engage with Weight Watchers they continue to value our service as shown by our retention trend.
Average length of stay in Q2 remained at eight months for monthly pass members and nine months for Weight Watchers online subscribers.
Our recruitment trends in Q2 while still negative are not deteriorating further.
Combined with the cost management actions we have taken ranging from taking cost at our vendor relationships through improved procurement capabilities to reducing the size of our organization we are managing through a tough environment in making a positive impact on our immediate results.
We have planned reductions in our marketing spend year-over-year as we took a prudent flexible approach focusing our resources on activities with the best return and also experimenting with various promotional tactics.
Coming out of a slow start in Q1 where our original advertising creative did not broadly resonate we pulled back on our levels of investment even further.
At the same time as you will recall we pivoted and swiftly introduced revised advertising creative which helped improve our performance.
Net our marketing investment in Q2 was significantly lower than last year.
Leveraging consumer insights on simple start we capped further into the value proposition that Weight Watchers allows people to have a strong and flexible relationship with food which is critical to consumer acceptance.
Our U.K.
team quickly took these learnings and developed food focused ads that featured simple star.
After launching in the U.K.
the ads were then adapted and rolled out to North America and other markets in Q2 as our TV spring campaign.
Over the last year as we built out our new leadership team one of our first goals was the breaking down of our artificial barriers within the company; between meetings and online across functions and between geographies.
Fast forwarding to today it's great to see the collaboration and sharing of ideas starting to benefit the business.
I am pleased by how our teams have worked together for example in experimenting with different promotional and marketing ideas such as extending food-centered consumer activation through new local marketing initiatives and testing time bound promotional channels to reach a wider audience and our members.
Turning to our second strategic pillar the reimagining of our offering we are excited about our plans for winter diet season 2015 and the accompanying repositioning of our brand.
As discussed previously we believe our innovation for the upcoming winter season will be a meaningful step in the right direction.
It is our fundamental belief that tools alone technology alone food programming alone will never reach the levels of success that are possible and they are combined with human engagement to guide and provide inspiration and accountability.
The strength of the Weight Watchers brand is and always will be in the human connections that make our weight loss journey more successful.
Connections between members and between members and service providers these human connections have always been present in our meetings offering but not in our online offering.
Our innovations for winter season 2015 will bring this power to our online offering for the first time and strengthen its impact in the existing meetings offering.
This expansion of personalization and community elements and our offerings will leverage our talented service providers.
Our 2045 offerings will be expanded to provide one on one personal advice from Weight Watchers experts to our online members for the first time are also providing greater personalization and connection in between meetings for our meetings members.
While we will not be providing more specifics on our innovations until they are rolled out because of commercial sensitivity we aren’t actively engaged with consumers to refine our approach and plan for implementation.
Early consumer feedback is encouraging and we are excited of the prospect of thousands of Weight Watchers experts expanding their ability to reach consumers with the personalized support skills and community needed for a successful weight loss journey.
In addition to these enhancements a key part of our strategy to reimagine our offerings is the opening up of a Weight Watchers brand changing the way we show up across all the dimensions of the consumer experience.
We have a great opportunity to make Weight Watchers a more inviting and inclusive brand and as a result to reach a wider set of consumers.
Our strategic work to strengthen and reposition our brand is underway and will be launched to a company our winter diet season 2015 innovations.
I expect to provide more color on this critical initiative on our next quarterly call.
We continue to work on our innovation pipeline extending well beyond winter season 2015 as we pursue a model of more continuous innovation and less reliance on winter season alone.
The evolution of our core program better reaching underpenetrated demographics and reaching consumers at more moments in their journey to a healthier lifestyle will all be important considerations as we make fundamental changes to how we define and present Weight Watchers in the future.
You will recall that in Q2 we acquired Wello a small San Francisco-based technology start-up that offers one on one and group fitness training online through interactive video.
By way of update the team from Wello is now on Board and they are providing great insights on our near term innovation agenda as well as contributing to the thinking on how best to leverage the adjacencies of weight management and fitness in the future.
In the near term prior to the 2015 winter season we are on track to deliver improvements to our digital experience including strengthening search and simplifying tracking.
In addition we will leverage API technology to allow our members to integrate wearable in-home devices apps and ecosystem into their Weight Watchers experience.
In combination with our comprehensive program these tools can be helpful to our members.
We recently launched our first activity monitor integration partnership with Fitbit in Germany which allows our members to use Fitbit devices to track activity and translate it to Weight Watchers point's values.
And this partnership goes beyond simple technology integration Fitbit has designated Weight Watchers as a privileged partner and is marketing Weight Watchers to its user base in Germany while we sell their devices in our meeting rooms.
Our third strategic pillar is growing our healthcare business.
We continue to make progress on enhancing our technology capabilities and processes for healthcare including data management privacy protection eligibility verification billing and reporting.
As discussed previously these improvements require significant investment which is well underway and will accelerate through the remainder of the year.
Further progress against our goal to engage in at least one commercial partnership in 2015 is encouraging.
We continue to expect that our healthcare initiative could make meaningful revenue contributions beginning in 2016.
We believe the healthcare space will increasingly demonstrate market demand for proven effective and cost efficient weight management programs.
This view is validated again in May when the U.K.'s National Institute of Health and Care Excellence said their research found that the cost of losing weight in a safe and sustainable way via a program such as Weight Watchers could result in significant savings over the long term.
As a result we are accelerating our efforts to enter into partnerships with U.K.
healthcare authorities making Weight Watchers a more compelling choice for physician recommendations.
And finally pillar four strengthening our organization which is key to turning around and transforming this business.
In the past year we build out a strong team to restructure the organization with simplified work flows and increased accountability and enhanced our innovation capabilities.
In addition our technology transformation is progressing well against our goal of changing our technology base from a legacy challenge into an enabling asset.
We are selectively adding to our talent pool in two strategic areas.
For example we recently hired Dondeena Bradley as VP of Global Innovation to drive the innovation pipeline for both our meetings and online offerings.
Dondeena is an experienced global leader with a deep skill set in nutrition health and innovation.
She joined us from PepsiCo where she was most recently Vice President of Nutrition Ventures.
Now I'll turn it over to Nick for more detail on our financial performance and a look ahead.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
Current Q2 we saw a continuation of our negative topline performance.
Total company revenue in the second quarter declined 15.6% to $398 million.
Continental Europe continues to be our strongest topline performing segment particularly France.
Second quarter global trade weeks were down 14.4% driven by declines in online and meetings.
End of period global length of subscribers declined 12.7% to $3.4 million with monthly pass active subscribers down 10.7% to $1.4 million and active online subscribers down 14.1% to $2 million.
Despite continued expense discipline our lower revenue and substantial pressure on the P&amp;L resulting in an operating income decline of 25.6% in the second quarter.
EPS was $0.95 on a reported basis and $0.98 on an adjusted basis in the second quarter  Adjusted EPS excludes $0.07 in restructuring charges and is partially offsetting $0.04 net tax benefit associated the closure of our China business and the recognition of the valuation allowance related to tax benefits for foreign losses.
In the prior year's second quarter adjusted EPS was $1.39 which excluded a $0.24 charge related to our 2013 debt refinancing.
For reference in the quarter foreign currency benefitted our results or approximately $0.02 per share.
During the quarter we continued to deliver incremental improvements across many areas of our business and as a result Q2 EPS came in ahead of our internal expectation.
Turning now to our results by geographic segment which I will discuss on a constant currency basis our North America business remained under pressure and in the second quarter total North America revenues declined 23.6%.
Meetings increased 19.3% and online revenue down 22.2%.
Meetings paid weeks declined 16.9% and online paid weeks declined 21.1%.
In-Meeting product sales declined 30.2% with product sales per attendee down 16% primarily driven by lower sales of our enrollment products.
During this quarter we maintained a focus on cost which partially helps to mitigate the impact of foreign declines in the field where we made good progress in reducing the underperforming drop in hours and consolidating small meetings.
On the corporate side we've introduced new procurement capabilities and processes resulting in contract renewal savings with vendors.
In the U.K.
business second quarter total revenue was down 16.1% with meeting fees down 11.4% and online revenues down 13%.
Meeting paid weeks declined 10.1% and online paid weeks declined 11.6%.
In-Meeting product sales declined 19% for the current sales with product sales per attendee down 6.4%.
Not long ago the U.K.
was almost a challenged market but the team has made progress over the last six months as reflected in the improving results.
In Continental Europe total revenues declined 2.4% with online revenue up 5.5% and meeting fees down 4.4%.
Online paid weeks increased 3.7% benefiting from a higher active subscriber base at the beginning of the quarter compared to the beginning of Q2 2013 partially offset by spot recruitment.
Meeting paid weeks declined 3.3% In-Meeting product sales were down 5% and product sales per attendee were up 0.8%.
Effective commercial activities helped drive these results.
Now it shows that our perfect core initiative which is focused on delivering a member experience in the first weeks of a weight loss journey is improving meeting attendance.
Now to review some key financial metrics for Q2 2014.
We incurred a pre-tax restructuring charges of $6.5 million or $0.07 per share in connection with our previously disclosed plan to resize the organization and restructure our field operations bringing total year to date expense potentially $2 million.
On the technology front we're moving faster than we had expected on the restructuring tax organization and capping legacy spending.
So we are now anticipating approximately $12 million in overall restructuring expenses this year spread fairly evenly between OpEx and G&amp;A.
Our philosophy continues to be to invest in key areas in support of future growth but to cut aggressively elsewhere.
We are on track to meet our gross annual run rate savings target of $150 million as compared to the end of 2012 by the end of this year.
Based on the actions we have already taken we expect to reduce OpEx and G&amp;A by an incremental $60 million in 2014 and achieve our two-year goal.
It is important to know however that only a portion of these savings are dropping to the bottom line in 2014 given that we are we reinvesting in the business.
Now to the P&amp;L detail excluding the impact of our restructuring expenses.
In the second quarter gross margin declined 270 basis points from the prior year to 57.6% primarily due to operating cost deleverage as well as the impact of our 2013 U.S.
service provider compensation changes.
Q2 marketing spend decreased $24.5 million versus prior to $46.2 million reflecting the nimble management of our marketing activity that Jim discussed.
We had lower total TV advertising activity as well as lower production cost combined with a continued focus on digital marketing efficiencies.
Q2 G&amp;A expenses increased 4.6% versus prior to $61.7 million but our cost savings initiatives are being more than offset by ramping spend in connection with our program development and healthcare initiatives as well as timing differences in certain accruals.
Our Q2 tax rate was 34.4% due to the one-time net tax benefit that I've discussed.
Excluding this tax benefit our tax rate would have been 37.4%.
Looking at our balance sheet and cash generation we ended the quarter with $276 million in cash and cash flow from operations totaled $65 million in the quarter.
Based on this performance we expect full year cash flow from operations to exceed $200 million.
Our $2.4 billion outstanding term loans do not have any restrictive leverage related financial covenants and our next meaningful debt maturity is the $300 million due in 2016.
While our revolving line of credit availability will be reduced from $250 million to $50 million when we exceed five times leverage.
It remains undrawn.
We have no current plans to utilize this bank facility.
Our debt to EBITDA leverage ratio increased to 4.9 times as of June 30.
Now I'll discuss our outlook for 2014.
While the year-over-year recruitment trends are negative they are slightly better than we anticipated at the beginning of the year.
Therefore for the full year we now expect total revenue to be north of $1.45 million.
For Q3 and the full year we anticipate year-over-year revenue and paid weeks to be down in the low to mid-teens.
In North America we anticipate that Q3 and full-year revenues should decline by 20% and total paid weeks will decline in the high-teens with meeting paid weeks performing slightly better than online paid weeks.
In the U.K.
for Q3 and the year we expect revenue and total paid weeks to decline by approximately 10% with online and meetings paid weeks performing similarly.
And for CE we expect revenues for Q3 and the year to be slightly positive.
Total paid weeks are expected to be up slightly for Q3 and the full year with online paid weeks growing and meeting with paid weeks declining.
Now some detail on the cost lines.
With gross margin we continue to expect our full year gross margin to decline by up to 400 basis points with Q4 declining more than Q3.
This decline has worsened in the first half of the year due to the timing of incremental investments in the winter season and our healthcare initiative as well as accelerated depreciation of some of our legacy technology assets as we begin to replace them with new capabilities all of which are progressively impacting the back half of the year.
We now anticipate that full year marketing expense will decline by approximately $30 million.
For Q3 we expect marketing expense to be roughly flat year-over-year as we invest to support the fall season and anniversary the particularly deep test we made in marketing in Q3 2013.
Also please note that Q4 will include a 53rd week which comes at marketing heavy time for our business.
Therefore Q4 marketing spend will likely be higher year-over-year.
For the full-year we continue to expect G&amp;A to be down low single digit percentage versus prior.
As we move through the year G&amp;A is impacted as we ramp up higher investments in our strategic initiatives including healthcare are technology.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $122 million for the increase versus Q1 with the interest rate swap that went into effect on March 31 2014.
For the full year our tax rate will be approximately 36.8% as a result of the unusually low rate in Q2.
Excluding the tax benefit impact our tax rate would be approximately 38.3% for the year.
For 2014 we expect CapEx of about $50 million and G&amp;A of $45 million.
So far in 2014 we have been acting with urgency in responding well to drive all the recruitments we can while carefully managing expenses.
As a result of the slightly better revenue outlook and the work we continue to do on top we are raising our 2014 EPS guidance to a range of $1.65 to $1.85.
This guidance excludes the $0.11 Brazil one-time gain from Q1 the positive $0.04 net tax adjustment in Q2 and the full-year $0.13 of severance costs related to our restructuring.
While this revised guidance is above the virtual expectations we outlined for the year it remains well below the $3.87 and the EPS we delivered in 2013.
Before I turn it back over to Jim I would like to take a minute to talk about 2015.
While we have fairly begun our budgeting process we would like provide you with an early view into our thinking in order to assist you with your modeling.
We are confident that the enhanced offerings and repositioning of the brand will make 2015 the inflection point for our business and that the associated recruitment will more than offset the incremental variable cost associated with the new offering.
To drive this growth we expect to keep marketing investment at similar levels to 2014.
Note that our 2015 P&amp;L will be pressured particularly in the first half as we will still be carrying the legacy technology platform that we expect to moving down by the middle of the year.
We will also continue to invest in the healthcare initiative in advance of the revenue benefits being fully realized.
In addition when we compare 2015 EPS to 2014 given the significantly negative recruitment trends this year we will begin 2015 with a lower starting exit space which will drive the negative EPS impact of about $0.60 per share.
As usual we're trying to provide 2015 in February by reiterating that these remarks represent an early view to assist you in your modeling.
Thanks everyone.
I'll now hand the call back to Jim.
Thanks Nick.
Looking back on my first year as CEO we started with a forthright situation assessment and translated that into an operating plan with a short term urgency of a turnaround and the strategic vision needed for a longer term transformation.
We are executing on our multiyear agenda and I am encouraged by the early progress.
We are aggressively controlling costs developing a solid game plan for winter season 2015 and revitalizing the Weight Watchers brand.
Building the foundation for a robust healthcare offering turning around our technology organization and capabilities and building a willing town base from executive leadership to all levels in the company.
There is still a good deal to be done and we are committed to tackling the items before us as we build for the future.
Thanks again for joining the call today and we will now open it up for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) The first question we have comes from Jerry Herman of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
Nick I just wanted to ask you a question about the very last comment you made in fact with regard to the $0.60 impact.
We certainly appreciate that color but I am wondering if you could give may be some additional color detail around that in terms of some of the basic assumptions or even logic that you utilize to sort of generate that number.
Yes sure Jerry.
The impact is essentially driven by the fact that we had solidly negative recruitment this year so both on our monthly pass actives and our online active subscribers.
We start 2015 with both times with housing down 2015 versus the 2014 starting point and that drives the headwind that we've mentioned.
Okay.
Great.
And… And just to add Jerry if I could the headwind of those regulators active and as we reiterated with additional costs variable cost to our offering that we are confident can be more than offset by the revenue that we'll generate.
I might assess that in 2015 like 2014 you'll see us continue to invest in the business to finalize our tech reinvention and to complete our healthcare capability build-out.
Great.
And guys I am wondering if you could talk a bit about the current subscriber base and in particular the composition of that subscriber base and what I am getting to is is there any read on the percentage of all subscribers or users that are legacy users if you will as opposed to new users what I am really getting at is are you getting close to some recurring user base of sort of loyal Weight Watchers customers? I think Jerry when you looked at our businesses on average.
Folks in our meeting business about two-thirds of those folks have been with us before.
On the online business about one third of the folks in each of the brand no I think what we are confident then is that while we'll be introducing in 2015 while I feel both to new people to the brand and to lapsed members.
Okay.
Thanks I'll turn it over.
Next we've R.
J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Thanks and good afternoon.
I wanted to start on the healthcare business and Nick you commented about I guess it was Jim's comment about 2016 being the first year positive revenue contribution wanted to see if the longer term goals that you establish at last year's analyst day I believe it was $300 million in incremental opportunity was still valid and then maybe an update on how many strategic talents you have in that business.
Just any color you have in that segment might be helpful.
Yes let me start and talk to the analyst day part of it and then Nick can pick up from there.
You are correct in recalling that on the day we expressed our basis for strategic interest in healthcare as part of it and unless put your view of how the company might look when we return to growth in the future we did describe the healthcare opportunity in numbers.
Like you are suggesting we still feel that opportunity is there for us.
I think we've been clear about the investment required to get there.
That investment also plays very heavily against existing account base and our strategic customers as well.
Those improvements in reporting an individual data tracking those are very strong requirements in this channel.
So we still feel that that target is reasonable.
We still feel committed to the healthcare strategy and I'll turn it over to Nick for the last half of your question.
Look I'll say that the strategic business it's relatively small business for us right now about $25 million in revenue but with good potential and we have some good projects in Q2 or I also signed six new strategic deals including Geico Lincoln Financial Group and Heimat Health.
We are confident that growing the healthcare business can be a good part of our future.
Thanks and I had a second question just on technology platform in general one is do you have plans to incorporate the app integration efforts that you have with Fitbit or some of the other partners out there as part of your 2015 marketing plans? And then the second question I had is what have generally been the meeting group leader response to some of the personalization efforts that you guys were talking about just any color behind that that would be also very helpful thanks.
Sure with respect to the technology platform and integration as I mentioned we are in the short run before 2014 is out we will be leveraging API technology integration to provide access to a number of devices and in home appliances to richen the experience for Weight Watchers members.
So that's a very distinct part of our strategy.
We think it plays to the strength of our community.
It extends their reach.
It creates new partners and it begins to leverage the potency of fitness and weight management together which is something we have always talked to and as evidenced by the very early work in Germany we can see that it really resonates with our members to be able to address activity in a very much more specific and deeper way along with weight management.
So we see this as a particularly strong strategy for opening up Weight Watchers and leveraging the size and strength of our community to create an even stronger experience.
With respect to the second question our leaders and receptionists they live for and they love helping members become more successful in their weight management journey and any and always that we can extend their ability to do that are things that they find very positive.
So early in our testing and in our dialogue with leaders around this direction they have been very enthusiastic and very responsive.
Thanks.
(Operator instructions) Next we have John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Thank you very much.
In looking at the $0.60 number that you discussed you often talk about sort of an inflection point in the business is that -- is the $0.60 number sort of a net number or does that include or does that include the benefit of this inflection that you are looking for I guess is there any earnings benefit from that? And then just a more technical question in terms of looking at the Q4 gross margin is it the extra week I missed this the extra week that's driving the Q4 gross margin performance to be worse than Q3 or is there something else going on there thanks? Let me start on the gross margin.
Q4 like the first half of the year have been impacted by the operating deleverage due to lower volumes and the investments in our service provider compensation.
As you get into Q4 you’ve not only got the ramping cost related to our healthcare initiative but guidance also assumes launch costs and training costs related to our winter season offering and that's why the Q4 is progressively worse than Q3  In terms of the $0.60 impact that was purely the math on our expected starting point of how many people we have -- expect to have in our programs at the start of the year and it doesn’t I don't think include any view on recruitment.
As you've heard we're confident that it can be a main inflection point that will drive people to the brand next year.
Okay.
I apologize one more clarification.
I think you talked about marketing spending being flat in 2015.
I assume that's on a dollar basis then? Yes that's a working assumption for now.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Next we have Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks.
Nick I just wanted to follow-up on the guidance you gave on 2015 as well.
You also suggested you're still going to have some costs from your legacy IT platform I think you suggested and still making investments in healthcare.
Will those investments be greater in 2015 versus 2014 of they be about the same just so we think about the year-over-year comparisons? Yes Glen you’ve would imagined it's hard for me to answer that because I am not giving guidance today and we're just really the beginning of our funding costs.
So I would just reiterate that we will have continued cost as we ramp down legacy technology spend particularly in the first half of the ramp up and new type capabilities and then we'll continue to invest in healthcare.
Okay so as we think about the year-over-year comparison you don't want to give us guidance in terms of how big that inflection point could look like.
But you just want to signal to people that you are starting $0.60 in the hole basically given the run-off in the second half of 2014.
That's absolutely right.
Okay all right.
Jim if I could shift gears.
I wanted to follow-up.
It seems like the company has posted some obviously better results in Continental Europe and I get it AsiaPac is an emerging market.
It's still small but you still have some pretty decent growth there.
I'm curious as to what's working in the Continental Europe market for example that's not working in North America? Are you are approaching those markets the same way? Or is there something that explains the divergence in the results as much as it is? I think there are a lot of moving parts but at a high level I think one of the biggest differences is the maturity that compare the trend things impacting the digital space in the United States are more aggressive and having a more substantial impact on crowing our trials.
There are some other plusses and minuses like I said and we referenced France for one which is having a particularly strong period of performance and I want to picture that because the comments I made about the future view around branding and our product offering I think relate back to something interesting in the French market.
We have -- we have what I would argue is a mildly aspirational brand position in France and we get credit from the consumers in that marketplace for that.
We are less reliant on promotional oriented advertising and have a better brand position and a better brand development sort of marketing tactics.
And so amongst a couple of other things that's putting that market out in front for us and I think that that is one thing that we would look in the aggregate to other markets and say there is potential in that.
Central to the strategy around reimagining our offering as I said is strengthening our brand and this is a good reference point for us.
If we can get the brand to occupy a stronger position with consumers one that is a little more inviting a little more open a little more aspirational that resonates better we will be in a much stronger position.
So as a specific with respect to your question there is something different there that we can look to -- I'll point at that one for the future as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question we have comes from Kurt Frederick of Wedbush Securities.
Thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering for the 2015 launch is that something that's consistent across all the geographies? Or is it going to be more like a traditional where certain markets have different launches than the other markets? Yes I am not going to shed too much more detail but it's safe to say that the strategies of personalization and community underpinning the direction for our offerings will be common across markets.
I would necessarily assume that everything is going to happen the same way at the same pace.
Okay.
And then just on the number of meetings centers.
How it has that changed from the beginning of 2014 to the end of 2014? Our retail footprint has been roughly stable through the year.
I think in terms of the Weight Watchers branded company centers if you will.
So where we've been achieving the operating expense savings has been really reducing the number of drop-in hours that we have and then also feel like consolidating small and medium that we haven’t been closing so also if you will.
Okay.
Fine.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Well this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I will now like to turn the conference call back over to Mr.
James Chambers for any closing remarks.
Sir? Once again everyone thank you for joining the call today and thank you for your continued interest in our company.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time today.
The conference call has now concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day everyone.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Corey Kinger Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kinger the floor is yours ma'am.
Thank you Mike and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International third quarter 2014 Conference Call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; Lesya Lysyj the President of our North American business; and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4 'O clock p.m.
Eastern Time today the Company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2014 third quarter results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the Company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the Company's progress.
The press release is available on the Company's corporate Web site located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Thanks Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
As Corey said here with me today are Lesya Lysyj the President of our North American Business and Nick Hotchkin our CFO.
Let me begin by outlining what we will cover today in our prepared remarks.
We will start by updating you on our business performance as well as the progress we are marking on our transformation initiatives.
Lesya will provide additional commentary on our Pillar 2 work with a particular focus on our initiatives to reposition our brand in support of our growth agenda.
Nick will then take you through the details of the Q3 financial results give a progress update on our cost management actions review our outlook for the balance of 2014 and provide color on the building blocks for 2015.
It’s been about a year since we first shares with your our transformation plan starting with our situation assessment and resultant core strategies.
Since that time we have updated you regularly on our strategies for returning our business to growth including the strengthening of our organizational capabilities in key areas like consumer insights innovation and the application of technology.
2015 represents a critical period in our multiyear plan.
It begins with the key winter season where we will take the first market visible steps in direction of our new strategies.
As indicated I will continue the dialogue on our transformation progress by talking to each of the four strategic pillars of our plan which by way of remainder are one driving immediate performance improvement; two reimagining our core offering; three growing our healthcare business; and four strengthening our organization.
First our business performance.
In the third quarter we delivered total revenue of $345 million adjusted operating margins of 27% and adjusted earnings per share of $0.68.
While these results are down year-over-year they reflect a slight sequential improvement in our top line trend as well as the results of strong cost management.
Our recruitment trends in Q3 while showing some improvement over Q2 remain negative in both meetings and online and were down in the majority of the countries in which we operate.
Recruitment continues to be the biggest challenge in our business as we continue to face strong competition for consumer trail from an evolving competitor set including mobile apps and activity monitors.
Turning our recruitment around is our top priority for 2015.
Let me turn to our Pillar 2 strategy for reimagining our core offering.
As you may recall Pillar 2 includes both the strengthening of our offering in the marketplace as well as the repositioning of our brand.
Please note that given competitive sensitivity we will not be providing significantly more detail about our 2015 winter season initiatives on this call but I think it is important to reprise our strategic direction.
As I said in the last call it is our fundamental belief that tools alone technology alone with programming alone will never reach the levels of success that are possible when they are brought together and combined with expert human engagement to guide and provide accountability.
The strength of the Weight Watchers brand is and always will be in the human connections that make the weight loss journey successful.
A core element of Weight Watchers success has always been the interaction and support that takes place in meetings among our members and service providers.
Until now our online products has been missing this element.
As we head into 2015 we’ll be expanding the personalization support and community elements of our offering leveraging our talent service providers.
Our 2015 offering will be expanded to provide one on one personal advice from Weight Waters experts to our online members for the first time while also providing greater personalization in connection in between meetings for our meetings members.
To our thousands of Weight Watchers experts we will be pairing at scale the world’s leading clinically proven weight loss program with the personal support skills and community needed for a successful weight loss journey.
Looking in synergy with our new offerings will be a strengthened and repositioned brand.
We have great potential to make Weight Watchers a more inviting and inclusive brand and as a result to reach a wider set of consumers with more compelling communications.
In a few minutes Lesya will share a bit more about our background and we’ll update you on our overall brand development strategy.
As I mentioned winter season 2015 represents the first market visible steps in our new strategy.
Our goal is to deliver an innovation pipeline extending well beyond the start of next year rolling out product and service enhancements on a more continual believe basis evolving our core program better reaching under penetrated demographics and touching consumers at more stages and moments in their journey to a healthier lifestyle continue to be important considerations as we make fundamental changes in how we define and present Weight Watchers.
Our third strategic pillar is growing our healthcare business.
Our focus here continues to be market readiness and we are investing our technology in operating infrastructure.
We are making good progress and early next year for the first time we’ll be operational with new capabilities that improve member data collection reporting eligibility validation enrollment and participation tracking as well as enhancements to our privacy environment.
With these new capabilities in place and given the long sale cycles we continue to anticipate that 2016 will be our first year of meaningful incremental healthcare revenue.
We are in active discussions with leading health insurance providers and continue to target launching at least one early partnership relationship in 2015.
And lastly Pillar 4 strengthening our organization where we continue to focus on talent capabilities and cultural revolution.
We have worked hard on developing our internal roaster as well as accessing new capabilities from the outside.
With respect to new hires there are few specific individuals that I would like to mention that are bolstering our competencies in the critical areas of technology application marketing and insights.
The first is Michael Lysaght Senior Vice President of Digital Engineering who will lead our development efforts for all of our digital offerings.
Michael has a strong track record building high performance consumer facing technology products.
Next is Maurice Herrera Senior Vice President of Marketing who will head up our U.S.
marketing team and will work closely with Lesya on our brand repositioning.
Maurice brings to Weight Watchers 17 years of top tier consumer marketing experience across multiple categories.
Finally Deb Benovitz our Global Head of Consumer Insights will play a strong role in making us an even more consumer driven organization by deepening our insights around current and future members.
Deb has more than 25 years of experience in leading insight work in high engagement consumer categories.
All three are seasoned leaders and we are excited to have them on board.
The power of our mission and the potential of our transformation continue to provide us access to top management talent.
We continue to make progress on our technology in line with the plan Dan Crowe our CTO laid out to you on our Q1 earnings call.
All major new developments are being executed in an agile model resulting in faster output and leveraging cloud hosting and services for future economic benefit when we turn off our legacy systems.
We are strengthening our engineering teams and making progress on consumer facing development on our new offerings as well as operations support system such as field automation and healthcare market readiness.
Our technology investments are modernizing our architecture and changing the fundamental productivity of our delivery environment.
Now I will turn it over to Lesya.
Thanks Jim.
Having now been in the North America President role for just about a year I'm excited to share with you my part in the journey to transform our business.
By way of background I have a long carrier with consumer packaged goods companies like Cadbury Kraft and most recently Heineken.
As a brand marketer I have worked on 20 different brands and 9 categories along the spectrum of brands with tangible benefits like Hall's cough drops to highly lifestyle driven ones like Dos Equis.
I have also been a Weight Watchers meetings member for over 20 years.
Not only do I come to the company with a love of what Weight Watchers does I also have a huge appreciation for the thousands of service providers at Weight Watchers.
They are the backbone of our organization and I personally have benefitted from and can appreciate the inspiration accountability and support that they provide for our members.
Let me start by saying North Americas performance both for meetings and online is obviously not where it needs to be.
I fully expect that as the largest contributor to overall Weight Watchers performance North America will lead the turnaround of our business.
The most important factor in driving this turnaround is attracting new consumers to Weight Watchers.
As Jim mentioned Pillar 2 is about both our offerings and our brand and I see three big areas to improve under this pillar which represent significant opportunity for us.
First enhancing the unique value that Weight Watchers provides which is inspiration accountability and support in all parts of our offering.
Second better adapting to changing consumer expectations for personalization and convenience.
And third evolving our brand which is already iconic and highly credible to be more relevant and aspirational to a wider audience.
To address the first two points we are enhancing our digital experience to add more value to our offering.
We announced the integration of popular activity monitors Fitbit and Jawbone and we continue to leverage API technology to allow our members to integrate wearables in-home devices apps and ecosystem into their Weight Watchers experience.
We also have added new features for the Weight Watchers app for iPhone that make both food and activity tracking easier.
We will soon deliver other improvements to our digital experience including a new visitor site and enhanced search functionality.
As Jim mentioned we also will be making more offering more robust this winter by bringing human interaction which is Weight Watchers’ biggest competitive advantage to online subscribers while also providing greater personalization and connection in between meetings for our meetings number.
So onto the third opportunity making the brand more relevant and aspirational.
On this topic I'd like to step back for a moment.
Having worked on many brands I can tell you that this brand and category really like no other.
The category is highly emotional and multi-layered from a consumer standpoint.
In addition our brand competes in a space which has changed over the last few years.
Consumers are reframing the diet and weight loss category which had been associated with deprivation and negativity into a more positive face called health and wellness.
And while Weight Watchers enjoy high consumer awareness high trust and high equity rooted in efficacy our offering is still seen from the outside as more of diet which is the irony and the good news.
We’re not about diet.
What we do as we actually help people change their habits.
We teach you how to live to eat to navigate to get back on track when you fall down.
Ultimately we help you change your relationship with food.
So we have a mission which we have now clearly articulated at Weight Watchers and that is to change people’s relationship with food for good.
The important pieces of this mission are relationship food and for good.
Relationships have ups and downs and layers of emotion and food is to be celebrated and is our primary focus; and changing the relationship with food for good means both for the better and permanently.
The communication strategy we’ve been working on with Wieden &amp; Kennedy Portland is built on consumer research which has shown us that our mission can resonate strongly with today’s consumers when communicated in an authentic way.
Consumers tell us that acknowledging their skepticism about claims like it’s easy or its fast and speaking honestly is unique and inspires hope and is powerful coming from the Weight Watchers brand.
We’re excited to be able to launch a new voice and message very soon.
We will continue to target primarily women and have an opportunity to expand our voice to be more relevant to a slightly younger audience and show up in more diverse types of media which can reach both our current and younger consumers.
So in summary I am confident in our ability to reposition our brand which is a key ingredient in turning to our business to growth.
Health and wellness is about long-term behavior change and so are we.
While we are changing and improving many things at once during this period of transformation we are starting with an incredibly iconic brand and a strong reputation of credibility.
We’re building off this foundation to bring relevance to the brand while reimagining offering to address real consumer needs convenience personalization and support.
Thanks and over to Nick.
Thanks Lesya and good afternoon everyone.
Let me start by walking you through our Q3 results.
In Q3 we saw some improvement in our top line trend with total company revenue declining 12.9% to $345 million.
Third quarter global paid weeks were down 12.4% driven by declines in online and meetings.
End of period global active subscribers declined 12.5% to 2.9 million with active online subscribers at 1.7 million and month pass active subscribers of 1.2 million.
While the competitive environment remains challenging as we work to attract consumers to our brand one thing gauged with Weight Watchers consumer value our service as shown by our continuing solid retention levels.
Average length of stay in Q3 remained steady at roughly eight months for monthly pass members and nine months for Weight Watchers online subscribers.
As we have seen throughout 2014 despite continued cost discipline our lower revenue has put substantial pressure on the P&amp;L and this resulted in an adjusted operating income decline of 26% in the third quarter versus prior.
EPS was $0.68 on an adjusted basis in the third quarter.
This excludes $0.01 impact from previously announced restructuring activity.
Our Pillar 1 initiatives to drive short term improvement are helping with revenue and cost improvement across many areas of our business and as a result Q3 EPS came in ahead of our internal expectations.
In the quarter foreign currency was $0.01 benefit and in the prior year third quarter recorded and adjusted EPS was $0.07.
Turning down to our results by geographic segment which I’ll discuss on a constant currency basis.
Our North America business continues to be our most previous market due to volume declines.
In the third quarter total North America revenues declined 17.3% with meeting fees down 15% and online revenue down 20.8%.
Meeting paid weeks declined 16% and online paid weeks declined 17.6% and meeting profit sales declined 22.6% with product sales per attendee down 10.9%.
During the quarter we continue to exercise cost discipline including reducing underperforming drop-in hours consolidating small meetings and renegotiating vendor contracts.
These actions helped margins but were more than offset by fixed cost deleverage.
In the UK business third quarter total revenue was down 13.8% with meeting fees down 9% and online revenues down 10.9%.
Meeting paid weeks declined 8.2% and online paid weeks declined 9.3%.
While revenue was still negative on a year-over-year basis the UK market has made significant performance improvements over the course of the year and has good momentum heading into the winter season.
In Continental Europe total revenues declined 0.9% with online revenues up 5.5% and meeting fees down 3.9%.
Online paid weeks increased 13.8% benefitting from a higher active subscriber base at the beginning of the quarter compared at the beginning of Q3 2013.
Meeting paid weeks declined at 3.9%.
Both margins and profits are up year-over-year in the third quarter.
Continental Europe is clearly our best performing geographic segment due to the actions our teams have taken to bolster our competitive position including more effective marketing.
Now to review some additional financial metrics for the third quarter.
We incurred pre-tax restructuring charges of $0.7 million in connection with our previously disclosed plan to restructure our organization and field operations bringing total year-to-date spend to $10.9 million.
We expect to incur only few hundred thousand dollars of additional restructuring charges in Q4.
Now to the P&amp;L detail excluding the impact of our restructuring expenses.
In the third quarter gross margin declined 420 basis points from the prior year to 54.3% primarily due to operating cost deleverage the impact of our 2013 U.S.
service provider compensation changes as well as certain promotional and inventory management reserves.
Q3 marketing expense decreased $11.4 million versus prior to $36.8 million reflecting lower total TV advertising activity lower production costs and less digital advertising.
Q3 G&amp;A expenses were roughly flat versus prior at $59.4 million but our cost savings initiatives being offset by ramping spend in connection with our technology reinvention and healthcare initiatives.
Our Q3 tax rate was 33.6% which came in lower than anticipated due to timing in mix across our international operations.
Looking at our balance sheet and cash generation we ended the quarter with $327 million in cash and cash flow from operations totaled $76 million in the quarter.
We expect full year cash flow from operations to be approximately $250 million.
As a reminder our 2.4 billion outstanding term loans do not have a debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio covenant and our next meaningful debt maturity is a $300 million due in 2016.
We recently amended our revolving line of credit saving about a $1 million in annual undrawn revolver fees by reducing its availability to $50 million which we believe is an appropriate level given our strong cash position.
We continue to have no current plans to utilize this bank facility.
Now I'll discuss our latest outlook for 2014.
Based on the incremental improvements in top-line trends we now expect total revenue to approach 1.5 billion for the full year.
We anticipate year-over-year revenue in paid weeks to be down in the low to mid-teens for the full year.
In North America we anticipate that full year revenues could decline by up to 20% and total paid weeks will decline in the mid-teen with meetings paid weeks performing slightly better than online paid weeks.
In the UK for the year we expect revenue in total paid weeks to decline by approximately 10% with online and meetings paid weeks performing in a similar way.
And for Continental Europe we expect revenues for the year to be slightly positive.
Total paid weeks are expected to be up in the low single-digits with online paid weeks growing and meeting paid weeks declining.
Now some detail on the cost lines.
Looking at gross margin we continue to expect our full year gross margin to decline by up to 400 basis points.
As previously noted this decline in gross margin gets worse as we move through the back half of 2014 particularly in the fourth quarter due to the timing of incremental investments in the winter season and our healthcare initiative as well as accelerated depreciation of some of our legacy technology assets as we begin to replace them with new capabilities.
We anticipate that full year marketing expense will decline by up to $35 million which implies Q4 spend will increase compared to the prior year fourth quarter driven by the marketing initiatives we will be implementing in support of our winter season launch and the inclusion of a 53rd week.
For the full year we continue to expect G&amp;A to be down low single digit percentages versus prior which includes our cost savings initiatives offset by the impact of the incremental investments we are making in the business.
Global line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $123 million.
With regard to taxes our expectation is that our tax rate would be approximately 37% for the full year due to Q4's expected marginal profitability in aggregate and the expected mix of profitability across our international operations.
Q4 we expect to have an unusually high tax rate in the 45% range.
For the full year we expect CapEx of about $50 million and the G&amp;A in the high 40s.
As a result of the better than expected third quarter we are raising our 2014 adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $1.95 to $2.05.
As reminder while this guidance is above the original expectations we outlined for the year it remains well below the $3.87 in adjusted EPS we delivered in 2013.
Next I'd like to take a minute to take you through some of our current thinking for 2015.
A year ago at our Investor Day we discussed that in this multi-year transformation 2014 would be a challenging year and we expect it to return to recruitment growth in 2015 which would lead to revenue growth in 2016.
While we are disappointed about this year's drop in profitability and are not satisfied with our results 2014 has been a year of the emerging green shoots but we remain confident in our ability to deliver on our strategic agenda.
Now with regard to our current thinking on 2015.
Due to the negative recruitment trends experienced in 2014 we will begin 2015 with a lower starting actives base which we now expect to drive a negative impact of up to $0.55 of EPS next year.
Know that this EPS impact is independent of any 2015 recruitment assumptions.
It's just a quantification of the starting point to assist you with your modeling.
We remain confident that our new offerings and the repositioning of the brand will make 2015 the inflection point for our business.
To drive this change in our recruitment trajectory after two successive years of substantial marketing efficiencies we expect to keep marketing spend similar to 2014 levels.
However we will continue to be responsive and nimble in our marketing execution.
As we have previously discussed 2015 will be another investment year as we continue our investments in technology to advance our healthcare initiative and to build out our innovation capabilities.
Therefore on top of the 2014 spend in 2015 we anticipate an incremental expense for approximately $25 million or $0.26 per share weighted to the first half of the year.
We expect our tax run rate to be lower in the back half following the wind down of our legacy technology systems.
In addition by leveraging our service providers in new ways we will be consciously adding tasks to our product delivery.
While we expect this to lower our gross margin rate modestly we are confident that this is a favorable strategic and financial decision for our business.
In line with our transformational plan we continue to expect 2015 to be a challenging year on the bottom line for Weight Watchers but it will also be one that will set the stage for top and bottom line growth in 2016 and beyond.
As usual we plan to provide you with our financial guidance for 2015 in February.
Thanks everyone.
I'll now turn the call back to Jim.
Thank you Nick.
To reiterate we are excited and confident we can execute our plan.
We are focused on near term delivery reimagining our offering and repositioning our brand healthcare market readiness and strengthening our organization.
For 2015 turning our recruitment trajectory around is our top priority.
There remains a lot of work to be done but we are encouraged by our early progress.
Thanks again for joining our call today and we will now open it up for questions.
Thank you sir.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question we have comes from Glen Santangelo of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Jim I just want to follow up on some of the prepared remarks you made with respect to your winter season initiatives.
I know you don't want to give up too much to the competition at this point and it kind of sounds like that the product is going to have a lot more human connection both on the meeting side as well as on the dot.com side of the business.
This is the last sort of public communication you will have.
Is there going to be any way you're going to disseminate your marketing strategy and we’re just going to kind of watch it unfold at this point and then discuss after the fact -- and so I’m just kind of curious maybe elaborate or give us any more color if some of the marketing initiatives will follow trends that we’ve seen historically with either sponsors or TV time or any different way you’re going to market the product this year that you can give us color on?  Thanks for the question.
I wish I could but as your lead in suggested I won’t provide additional detail on what we’re doing.
I will reiterate what you referenced is that we will be providing more human support in our offerings going into winter season and I think you will have to just watch it unfold hopefully excitedly but I think you’ll have to watch it unfold.
Maybe if I can just shift gears.
Nick I just want to follow up on this 2015 guidance.
It kind of sounds like maybe the recruitment waterfall maybe improved a little bit from last conference call.
So the whole restarting in for ’15 maybe sounds a little bit better than maybe what you thought 90 days ago and I’m assuming that if that’s the case just kind of following -- I think you said there would be recruitment growth in 2015 but we won’t have revenue growth until ’16.
Is that kind of implying that revenue growth will still be negative in 2015?  Yes.
Glen thanks for that and before I answer that question just let me clarify some of my prepared remarks.
I think I might have said online paid weeks but Continental Europe increased 13.8%.
I should have said 3.8%.
So Glen turning to your question yes look we did see incremental improvements in our trend since we last spoke and that’s why whereas previously we estimated the negative EPS impact associated with our lowest [indiscernible] space at $0.60 of EPS now it’s up to $0.55.
As you've heard from Jim and Lesya we’re excited about what we’re bringing to market and how we will advertise that if we iterated that this will be the inflection point for our business and we expect recruitments to turn positive during ’15; when exactly and what were recruitments would be -- I think I'd be foolhardy to try to estimate that and that's why we give guidance in February.
Okay and Lesya maybe if I can just ask you one question.
In your prepared remarks you seem to suggest that North America you feel confident can kind of lead the turnaround at the Company but just trying to listen to the other commentary on Continental Europe and it’s obviously been the best geography for the Company and so maybe you can just reflect on -- or Jim perhaps reflect on what works well in continental Europe that doesn’t work in the North American market? Because I'm just not sure exactly the differences between the geographies maybe it's a cultural difference but it just seems like you have strategies working elsewhere that don’t work here and vice versa?  I think at the highest level the biggest difference in performance is around our competitive frame in the U.S.
at a greater pace and with greater consumer interest than the other markets -- if I'm generalizing we saw the emergence of these new competitors that competed with us for trial.
We’ve been of the opinion that the percentage of folks for whom these new competitors represent a full and successful solution is not that high but nonetheless we’ve been consistent in saying that the impact on trial was there.
So those forces are greatest in the U.S.
That’s created the greatest headwind in U.S.
Beyond that there are some secondary considerations but that’s really the biggest difference.
John Faucher JPMorgan.
I was wondering if you can just provide a little bit more detail on the gross -- you made some comments about healthcare and the investments in healthcare impacting the gross margin.
Can you talk a little bit about how it is that those investments are impacting gross margin? What type of investments they are? And then as we think about modeling that through is that something where that’s just going to be a short term impact or is that a longer term impact going forward on the gross margin? Thanks.
It's Nick.
Let me take that for '14 starting with -- in Q1 and Q2 you saw our gross margin decline in the 300 basis points range driven primarily by operating deleverage and increased service provider compensation.
As we -- for the back half of this year the deterioration in gross margin has worsened primarily due to ramping up investments and healthcare and also lower cost associated with our winter launch.
So that’s why we’re still guiding for 400 basis points decline in gross margin this year as a whole which as you will see -- up to a 600 basis points deterioration this fourth quarter.
Looking forward we’ve noted in today’s call that we’ve made some strides our investments to reinvent our technology system this year and build our healthcare capabilities but we’re not done and that’s we’ve indicated in today’s call an incremental investment of $25 million of ’14 over ’15.
I think the other thing of note to reiterate on our gross margin is that we’ve noted that we’re adding cost to our product delivery and we expect that to impact gross margin rate modestly.
I hope that helps.
Just -- is fourth quarter EPS guidance about negative $0.01 to $0.09 just as housekeeping?  Yes like I said within that -- sort of within that range I believe our adjusted EPS year-to-date is $1.97.
So when you look at the guidance for Q4 obviously it's the smallest quarter we have in the year from a revenue standpoint and we’ve noticed that the GM the gross margin environment I've just discussed and we’ve also noted that marketing is going to be tough year-over-year probably due to the 53rd week and our launch activities.
So obviously a lot of un-mounting [ph] Q4 timing of investments and exactly what revenue will be but you’re understanding our guidance correctly.
And maybe I would expect you to -- a little bit higher guidance just given the consecutive beats that you've had but it sounds like you're also being all the conservative too.
But I understand that? Yes in other words I think you can looked at the beat we’ve had this quarter obviously when you looked at it I would say a third of the week was probably the timing of the international packs issues two-thirds operational issues little bit of extra revenue net [ph] of this in our high margin business and so we deliberately shifted from Q3 marketing spend into Q4.
So those are the major moving parts.
Yes okay fair enough.
You mentioned that recruitment is down but it's improved.
How is the competitive environment? Has that been changing over the last few months or is it been pretty consistent throughout the year? And as a second part to that question just looking into 2015 do you think that your new innovation that you’ll be launching will be enough to improve your value proposition for your online business and/or your classroom business versus the competition right now? Are you going to really kind of change that value proposition in a meaningful way?  So I think the competitive frame changes and we'll have changes in the players but the fundamentals of being the large attractive market that it's bringing people in who feel they can compete with fast and light footprints if you will that’s not changing.
As we head into the holiday season I think we’re going to see lots of participation by folks who compete with us from a consideration perspective.
Turning that more broadly as I referenced before while that’s a general comment across the markets the things that we are doing we think directly will effect -- address rather the value proposition on our business.
And from a timing perspective I think we will be getting earlier into the competitive frame development in the non-U.S.
markets than we have in U.S.
So the results of our activities where will actually improve our competitive position and improve our value proposition.
So yes I think that at a high level what has created magic in this business for a long time in the meeting side of the business we’re doing more of that.
We’re doing more of it in between the meetings business for those folks and we are bringing that to the digital side of our business for the first time.
That’s the fundamental change that we are amping up those value creation moments and that’s going to address -- that’s to going to add strength in our value proposition.
And just finally in terms of advertising marketing because that’s going to be really critical to driving recruitment and sales.
How far long are you in that process and how comfortable do you feel that you’ll be able to maybe step up the effectiveness of advertising for the new innovations that you’re going to be launching?  Yes I will take that.
I think we’re far along and I think we're feeling very good about it.
At a high level there is an opportunity to be more engaging more relevant and more memorable and as I said I think as we're talking to people in a more authentic voice consumers have told us that that is important to them and it's credible to them and inspires hope.
So we're far along and we're feeling good about it.
Jim I wanted to ask about the new product.
And can you talk about the process of launch and how it’s been say tested or piloted regarding the launch? Historically there's been sort of a soft launch to Weight Watchers products.
Can you just talk about how you’ll go about that process? Yes I think both in terms of the pieces of offerings that change as well as the pieces of consumer activation and how they relate to one another.
We do go through rounds of exposure for consumer reaction all the way through formal testing and it’s a mix of those kinds of tactics.
This is a trickier category than some that I’ve been in to feel that you’ve gotten a perfect read such that you then say what’s going to happen when you go live but we have worked hard to present as much as of it in real world situations to our consumers as possible and we feel confident with the reactions that we have been getting from them.
How about is there a soft launch plan in terms of timing? I think that falls a bit into the camp of information from a competitive perspective that we'd be sensitive to but I think it’s safe to say that we will flow these offering changes into the marketplace in a way that gives us increasing confidence that we’re going in the right direction.
Okay great and a question about corporate market and forgive me if this is nitpicking but I thought you guys had previously framed some visibility around the corporate market as an announcement this year for a major partnership that you said a launch in 2015.
The question obviously is is there a drift in any way of your -- on ability to deliver or sale cycles extending in any way? I don’t think it’s much around our ability to deliver.
I think -- we have always thought that the major market entry point is 2016.
We hope to have some early partnerships in '15.
We I think had assumed it might be faster to actually signing and announcing that but we’re still confident that will happen.
It’s a long and deliberate sales cycle and we are doing something for the first time that maybe we’ve been talking about for a long time but for the first time we are standing at these capabilities.
So it just takes a lot of back and forth to insure that we’re all conformable with what the relationship would be.
But I'm still confident that we will have an early relationship in '15 and still confident the strategic potential is there for '16 and beyond.
Okay Nick and just one clarification on guidance.
The $0.60 versus the $0.55 I think previously you’ve talked about a mid-teens decline in subscribers.
I'm assuming that’s more like low double digits at this point.
And then with regard to your assumption around that I'm trying to understand what it implies for the new subscribers next year? Does that effectively assume that the activity on new is flat first of this year or identical to this year’s trend? Is that the way we should think about that? I think Jerry if I understand the question we're not giving any indication today of what we think recruitments will be next year other than the fact that we think we've got some great program news adding value for our online offering which has been a particular pain point for us this year and you know it's been the first year our online business has shrunk year-over-year and $75 million of revenue this year.
So that will help.
In terms of the starting position that $0.60 now up 55% I would describe it is a slight change given the incremental better top line environment we’ve seen since we last spoke.
But we'll start 2015 with some region of 400 000 fewer people in the brand we started in [indiscernible] with.
I had a question a technology related question.
Just wondering and I realize it's pretty early stage with your relationship with Fitbit and the HealthKit [ph] relationship as well but wondering if you have any early learnings from that to share with us particularly with regards to recruitment opportunities engagement levels with members as well as potential direct marketing? Just any color that you had early on with those relationships would be helpful? It is early but in general the relationships have had a bit very positive impact on our service providers.
a positive impact on our members.
So we’re very encouraged by the potential that these relationships indicate for our strategies in general because as we know people think about they think about fitness and they think about weight management very closely together.
There are good statistics that over 50% of the weight management attempts are accompanied by a similar consideration around exercise or fitness.
And so bringing these things together is very positive from a strategic perspective.
The early stages to your question have been very positive.
And a follow up questions for Nick.
Just trying to get some clarity for 2015 capital expenditures trying to get some sense where directionally they may stand relative to 2014 and how that $25 million incremental investment you talked about for next year is that in addition potentially to what we saw in 2014.
Just trying to get a little bit more color for modeling purposes?  Yes.
If I start with the second question first at the start of this year we said we'd have approximately $20 million of expense related to investments in technology healthcare and innovation capabilities and we have.
So the $25 million that we've disclosed today is on top of that 2014 spend.
In terms of CapEx CapEx this year in the $50 million range is down of the highs last couple of years as went through our retail portfolio update.
The CapEx is to the point where it's almost exclusively driven by our tech transformation to expand and associated software capitalization.
So not in a place today to guide on exactly what CapEx will be for next year but I wouldn't expect it to return to sort of high you see over the last couple of years.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions].
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Corey Kinger Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amey and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International fourth quarter and full year 2014 conference call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4 'o clock p.m.
Eastern Time today the Company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2014 fourth quarter and full year results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Thanks Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
Our remarks today will focus on 2014 performance and an assessment of early learnings from our winter season launch.
We will also provide detail on our strategic and financial plan for 2015.
When we unveiled our multiyear transformation plan we knew that 2014 would be a challenging year but we hoped to achieve positive recruitment sometime during 2015 leading to revenue growth in 2016.
Our plan was based on strong cost management repositioning our brand improving our product offering and targeting new channel growth in healthcare.
While we still believe firmly in our underlying strategies our execution at the start of the year was not what we had hoped for and I am disappointed to say that we are not yet where we expected to be and that our turnaround will take longer than we had anticipated.
That’s why we are taking aggressive steps to adjust our marketing to continue to improve our consumer offerings in both meetings and online and to right size our cost structure.
Nick will discuss the 2014 results in more detail but to summarize 2014 revenue declined 14% to $1.5 billion.
End of year global actives declined 15% to 2.5 million with 1.5 million online and 1.1 million in meetings.
2014 adjusted EPS was $2.03 and cash flow from operations totaled $232 million.
During the fourth quarter we introduced a number of digital product enhancements including improving our search functionality enhancing the ease of use of our food and activity tracking expanding our foot data base and creating video content to enable members to more quickly mesh to the program.
In addition a key 2014 goal was enter into a nationwide partnership with a leading healthcare player and we are excited about our alliance with Humana.
All Humana members and qualified employer sponsored health plans now have free access to six months of Weight Watchers through an integrated wellness program.
While I’m proud of the work the team did to improve our 2014 top line and bottom line performance versus our expectations at the start of the year given adjusted 2014 EPS was 48% below prior year I am not at all satisfied with our 2014 performance.
We enter the 2015 winter season with two objectives to significantly improve our marketing execution and to launch enhancements to our products.
We were optimistic that new creative would be a driving force and the introduction of our coaching and expert chat support platforms would contribute to making 2015 the inflection point for our business.
As I will explain some of these initiatives worked well but others fell short of our expectations and in total led to disappointing results.
Recruitment trends especially in the critical first few weeks of the year were significantly weaker than we had expected and down substantially versus 2014 levels particularly in North America.
Let’s begin with marketing on which we were relaying heavily at the start of the year.
In our core U.S.
market we made the decision to take a different tack in our communications then we have in the past.
We crafted a two-step marketing strategy beginning in late November with the launch of advertising spots which were meant to create a new conversation about our brand to follow up by call to actions spots beginning post-Christmas.
While the early spots did driven the conversation for example LMI butt piece generated over 2 million YouTube hits they did not contribute to the ability of subsequent step-two ads to create awareness of our new offerings and the steps two ads themselves did not have a strong enough call to action to drive recruitments.
In addition some technical and executional issues on our sign-up website associated with the transition to our new offerings contributed to the significant fall off in improvements during the last week of 2014 and the first three weeks of January.
We quickly revised our U.S.
advertisement tactics.
Our new ads which featured Weight Watchers coaches and more clearly addressed creating awareness in our offerings began to run by the middle of January and we saw an immediate improvement in the recruitment trend versus what we experienced earlier in the month.
Finally with the launch of our Super Bowl spot and accompanying promotional offer we integrated creative that drove engagement with a strong call to action.
Our ad was ranked number two by Forbes for social media engagement on Facebook among Super Bowl ads and combined with our lose £10 on our promotion drove a significant improvement in trends versus prior year and the several weeks that followed and attracted new members at higher rates than we have been attracting previously.
This is clear proof that when we get strong marketing execution we can move the needle.
But I should caution that while this combination of marketing message and strong promotional offer drove short-term strength year-over-year year-to-date recruitment still remained more negative than the overall suppressed levels we witnessed in 2014.
Let’s move to our product activity.
We introduced several new platforms that have a lot of potential but we are still clearly in the learning phase.
In mid-December in the U.S.
we launched a premium personal coaching product and added 24/7 expert chat providing one-on-one personal advice from Weight Watchers experts to online members for the first time and then an additional touch point between meetings for meetings members.
These offerings are targeted to leverage in a digital realm the increased motivation and accountability that results from the interaction and support that takes place between our members and service providers that have been consistently validated in our meetings business.
In key international markets we focused on our flavors launch a program enhancement and introduced personalized tracks for food preferences including high protein gluten free and vegetarian options.
These initiatives represent meaningful first steps in our strategy to bring more personalization and community for the Weight Watchers experience.
Importantly personal coaching is receiving extremely positive feedback from our members.
Over 90% would recommend it to a friend demonstrating the power of personal support and accountability on member experience and success.
While the take up rate for personal coaching has been low so far with about 3% of recruits choosing this option over the course of the year we’ll actively explore ways to bring this rich experience to more people.
24/7 expert chat is a platform that allows for the immediacy of communication with our experts and is clearly a step forward but we have not yet developed it to its full potential.
We believe we can leverage this beyond purely question and answer based support to empower new types of interaction with Weight Watchers members.
The launch of personal coaching and 24/7 expert chat required the addition of new capabilities to our technology platform and field operations.
We trained 4 000 of our service providers and built the underlying scheduling and communication technology platforms to bring live member interactions into the digital setting.
We believe that given the highly favorable member feedback with more focus on driving awareness we can meaningfully increase the penetration of and consumer value derived from these platforms.
In our UK and European markets we have received an encouraging response from members on our flavor’s personalization strategy but recruitments have not met our expectations.
The UK is feeling pressure from competitive offers while some markets such as Germany and Sweden performed better due to stronger marketing campaigns.
Now let me step back and then speak more broadly about our category insights and the implications for our action plans as we continue to push our core strategies of strengthening the brand and improving the offering.
The Weight loss category continues its rapid and significant reframing driven by societal and technological changes.
While losing weight remains important to consumers it is increasingly being viewed as part of a more holistic equation but becoming what consumers would describe as a healthier more confident need is the top priority.
Consumers ascribe less direct interest in diet as a standalone need.
The underlying desire for weight loss is still a very important part of the equation.
However the consumer wants to get there through a more holistic mindset of generally healthier eating wellness and fitness with weight loss being a critical element of this bigger picture.
This new mindset is more forgiving and allows for success across many metrics and less emphasis on the number on the scale.
The time between fitness and smarter food choices has become inexplicably linked in the mind of the consumer as a pathway to a healthier more confident lifestyle.
For example while losing weight and working out are always in the top new year’s resolutions in 2015 working out moved to the number one slot followed by being happy at number two and losing weight at number three.
As we have deepened our insights on these changes although Weight Watchers has historically been perceived as more of a diet we are encouraged by research that strongly suggests that the Weight Watchers brand has permission to play in the space; I would again refer to as a healthier more confident need.
Further consumers continue to offer the Weight Watchers brand Strong Craze giving us high marks on effectiveness and expertise with strong personal connections and recommendations from family and friends who have had success on the program.
Weight Watchers is known to be a program that works backed by expertise and more than a collection of tools and devices.
Given our brand assets and permissions we have a genuine opportunity to broaden our messaging and product offerings to meet this new consumer framing by marrying our historical strength in program food and support with a greater degree of emphasis on fitness and doing so in a seamless easy to use way.
Let me outline two implications first fitness needs to become a more important part of what we offer.
For the vast majority of our target members fitness is not about training for triathlon it’s about taking small steps on a guided journey to incorporate activity into the fabric of their daily lives.
Well this does not represent a new strategy it is clear that our members are looking to incorporate activity and fitness into their weight loss programs.
As an example of this hundreds of thousands of our members are already syncing Fitbit and other activity devices with their Weight Watchers experience through our API strategy implemented late last year.
Second we need a more experiential product approach.
Consumers have been trained they are participating in the digital product realm offers free experiences of products and services either in the form of sampling or full access.
They expect that they can experience things without an upfront financial commitment or significant effort to assess a product’s value proposition.
Therefore we will continue to experiment with ideas that increase the size of our community lower the barriers to trial and facilitate conversion.
These opportunities apply to both our meetings and online businesses.
At the start of the year we favored our online products with promotion and sign up placements that leveraged our digital innovation.
We remain committed to strengthening our meeting business as well as it represents the source of our competitive advantage and the most effective model for group interaction supporting consumer weight loss efforts.
Although we continue to work hard to improve the fundamentals of our business the tough start to the year on recruitments will have a significant impact on our financial performance.
As Nick will explain our 2015 plan incorporates the steps to maintain strong liquidity for our company while preserving our strategic path to a better future.
To support this objective we have begun implementing a new $100 million cost savings plan for 2015.
In 2014 we made significant progress on our technology transformation while we launched new product platforms.
We have more to do.
In 2015 we will continue our tech transformation by investing to increase the speed and lower the cost of developing consumer facing functionality while being aggressive on cost reductions in all other areas of our technology operation.
To-date we have made a lot of progress in building our healthcare capability as demonstrated by our recently announced partnership with Humana.
In 2015 we will not be investing ahead of the revenue curve but rather we would be adding capabilities more inline with the growth of the business.
We will continue to take aggressive actions aimed at improving our performance in 2015.
We are and will continue to dynamically shift our media mix to areas that are producing results.
In our communications we are looking at ways to elevate the value of our offerings and the positive member experience.
We are taking steps to improve our visitor website and update our mobile apps.
While some changes are more visible than others we are not standing still and are focused on enhancing the visitor and user experience at all stages from consideration through active use.
And we are listening to our members and service providers and their feedback in meetings online expert chat and personal coaching and exploring ways that we can better promote our strength and address our weaknesses.
Weight Watchers is uniquely placed to bring elements of healthy living under one roof building on a reputation of our effective program.
Despite the challenges in our competitive environment and our challenging start to the year we remain committed to the transformation efforts of our business.
Now I will turn it over to Nick.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
Let me start by highlighting a few key items in our 2014 financial performance.
Q4 operating results were inline with our expectations and included costs associated with our winter season program launch and the earlier than usual Thanksgiving kick up of our U.S.
marketing campaign.
For the full year total company revenue declined 14.2% to $1.48 billion driven by lower meeting and online paid weeks compared to the prior year.
We executed well on the cost side achieving a $150 million gross annualized cost savings target over 2013 and 2014.
Given the operating deleverage pressures indicated by a gross margin decline of 350 basis points for the year we worked hard on G&amp;A decreasing our year-over-year spend for the first time in five years despite increased investments in technology and our healthcare initiative.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $2.03 for the full year.
This excludes a $0.34 per share non-cash charge in the fourth quarter due to the partial impairments of certain intangible assets related to our Canada Meetings business.
For the year we generated cash flow from operations of $232 million.
During the year we increased our cash funds by $126 million.
That ends 2014 with a cash position of $301 million.
Now I will discuss our plan for 2015.
As Jim mentioned an aggressive focus on cash generation and conservation is required given our lower level of revenue and to maintain our strong liquidity.
Specifically our plan incorporates the steps to needed to end the year with a targeted cash balance of at least $350 million.
This targeted cash level will provide ample liquidity to pay down our debt maturity of $300 million during 2016 and to run and invest in the business and this is without accessing the additional cushion of our undrawn $50 million line of credit.
As a reminder while given our $2.4 billion debt our leverage is high compared to our current financial performance our capital structure does not have any restrictive debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio covenant.
To support our cash generation plan we have launched a new $100 million gross cost savings goal that we expect to achieve in 2015 with savings split fairly evenly between operating expenses marketing and G&amp;A.
As you would expect these cost cuts will include headcount reductions.
We anticipate restructuring charges associated with this asset to total approximately $10 million for the year.
In addition as Jim mentioned while we will continue to invest in technology and healthcare we are apply the same high level of scrutiny to these investment areas.
And now I would like to provide our detailed guidance for 2015.
Due to the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar I will provide some color on FX impact as I go through the P&amp;L.
Given we started 2015 with our lower starting actives base versus prior combined with the weak recruitment trends we have seen earlier this year particularly during the critical first few weeks of the year we expect the revenue to be roughly $1.2 billion for 2015.
Note that this guidance includes the impact of the strong U.S.
dollar while alone drives the $16 million decline in revenue versus prior year.
For 2015 we expect full year adjusted EPS to be in the range of $0.40 to $0.70.
Our EPS guidance includes an approximately $0.15 negative impact from unfavorable foreign exchange related to the Sterling and euro but excludes the restructuring cost of our headcount reduction.
We expect Q1 to be our weakest quarter given the disappointing start at the year because our cost assets will primarily impact Q2 to Q4 and then for the Q1 we anticipate being marginally profitable on the operating income line and to our report an EPS loss.
In the remainder of my comments I will speak to the mid-point of our full year guidance range.
Total paid weeks are expected to be down in the high teens for Q1 with modest improvements for the rest of the year with meetings paid weeks performing better than online.
Now for some segment detail all on a constant currency basis.
In North America we anticipate that first quarter and full year revenues will decline in the low 20% range.
In Q1 total paid weeks will decline in the mid 20’s with meetings paid weeks performing better than online.
In the UK we expect revenue for Q1 and the full year to decline in the mid-teens.
In Q1 total paid weeks to decline in the mid-teens with meetings and online performing similarly.
And for Continental Europe we expect revenues to be down in the low single-digit for Q1 and for the full year and the Q1 paid weeks to be down in the mid-single-digit with online performing better than meetings.
Now to some detail on expenses which factors in the $100 million cut backs that I have outlined.
We expect our gross margins to decline by over 500 basis points in Q1 which reflects a lower volume as well as the added cost for 24/7 expert chat and coaching.
Our $100 million cost reduction plan will start having an impact over the balance of the year and we expect full year gross margins to be down approximately 450 basis points versus 2014.
This includes around 25 basis points of unfavorable FX impact.
We expect Q1 marketing spend will be approximately $95 million and the full year marketing expense will be approximately $220 million as we focus our spend on key medias that generate results.
This represents more than a $40 million reduction versus prior approximately $15 million of which is driven by foreign exchange.
G&amp;A is expected to be down slightly in Q1 year-over-year and to be in the $200 million range for the full year primarily driven by headcount reductions and overall cost vigilance including approximately $10 million of FX favorability.
This represents a decline of more than $30 million versus 2014.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $125 million and our tax rate to be approximately 39%.
We expect CapEx of less than $40 million in 2015 and D&amp;A in the $55 million range.
Generating cash to pay down debt is our clear capital structure priority.
In addition uses of cash could also include selected tuck-in acquisitions to expand our technology capabilities.
In summary 2015 is expected to be another challenging year on the bottom line for Weight Watchers but importantly our plan incorporates the steps needed to manage our liquidity and to continue to transform the business.
I will now turn the call back to the operator for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Glen Santangelo at Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks and good evening.
Just two quick ones Jim if I heard you correctly and I was kind of writing fast so I apologize if I screwed this up but basically I think you said that only 3% of the members opt for the personal coaching.
Do you know what percentage of the members are using the online chat support we’re just trying to figure out what type of returns you are getting on those investments that you made and how you expect to kind of improve that penetration over the balance of the year? Right let me start by saying the reaction to the platforms that we introduced by our members has been very positive.
As I said in the script we had a 90% plus favorability rate on the coaching platform and a strong rating as well on click to chat and it’s very early days obviously as we need to drive awareness of these offerings and cultivate the behaviors.
I don’t have the exact statistics to get to the first part of your question as to the penetration of click to chat but I want to come back to stressing how favorable this reaction has been and the reason I refer to it as a platform versus a product as consistently as I can is that as these cultivate new ways to interact and drive engagement there are lots of things that we can put through these vehicles.
So I am very encouraged about strategically what we have done and this was the imperative to bring the differentiating strength of our service providers and the Weight Watchers expertise into the digital realm.
So yes the penetration is low we do have opportunities to drive awareness but we are really encouraged with the start.
Okay.
Maybe if I can just follow up and ask Nick a financial question Nick you gave us some cash details.
You are targeting $350 million in cash by the end of the year.
Could you just remind us the specifics of the 2016 payment? And then maybe if I can ask to you look a little bit further when we look at the bigger payment that needs to be made in 2020 it’s pretty obvious that the debt’s trading at a pretty heavy discount.
Can you maybe discuss what the strategy there is in terms of how you expect to sort of handle the $2 billion payment coming up? Yeah Glen I would be happy to.
First a nice meaningful maturity it’s $300 million due in April 2016.
After that we have $2.1 billion due in 2020.
Last year you saw us focus on cash generation and then increase the cash funds by $126 million to be sitting here today with $300 million of cash on the balance sheet at year end so equal to the debt repayment next year and plan has us generating 50 million of cash this year at least to end the year with 350 million of cash at year end.
So strong liquidity to deal with the April ’16 debt repayment.
Beyond that we know and Glen you know the history of this company as we get the top line moving the company can generate an awful lot of cash and so that’s certainly our plan to return to recruitment growth as soon as we can.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from Eric Cohen of Barclays.
Actually this is Meredith Adler.
I was wondering -- I saw the press release about Humana and I was wondering whether Humana ever considered giving members you sign up for Weight Watchers a discount on the healthcare premium because I think you’ve tried providing Weight Watchers services for free and it’s not that effective in getting people to really use the services because they don’t have any skin in the game.
So I was wondering whether you had discussion with them is that something that they considered.
Hi Meredith I won’t comment specifically on Humana.
I'm sure they could provide color on that but I would say to the sentence of the question I think you do see health plans trying to connect behavior change with incentives for their participants and the reason behind that is obvious.
I think it’s also what drives interest in us because our engagement is exceptional and as is the case with Humana now we’re plugged into their integrated wellness offering and that’s clearly an attempt to use our engagement and their broad wellness platform to improve the health and improve the healthy behaviors of their populations.
And this agreement seemed to come before open enrollment.
Does Humana -- has Humana agreed at all to do any kind of marketing to their members to talk about this new program this new service? Yeah Humana has been a consistent innovator and they are aggressively looking at the relationship with Weight Watchers as an internal value creator for their members and so they are communicating it they’re marketing behind it they are using their coaches and nurses to promote the penetration of this partnership.
So yeah they are fully behind us strategically would be my characterization.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
The next question comes from R.J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Thanks had a bigger picture question here and Jim I appreciate the color on the consumer changes that you’re seeing in that weight management is becoming a part of a holistic approach that includes fitness.
In that context have you thought of any changes any broader brand changes or any kind of strategies to outline as you see changes in consumer environment does the brand also need to change? Yes I think we have said RJ that one of our key strategic planks is repositioning the brand.
There are a lot of fantastic things about this brand but there are things that we could do to bring it more on trend and put it in a different context.
I think the research that I was referencing was getting more crystalline about what that context is.
So between the brand positioning and the product strategy I think you will see the Weight Watchers brand showing up differently going forward.
Thanks.
Had a follow-up question on the Humana relationship and really just kind of looking forward here you mentioned during the prepared remarks about investing in the healthcare business in step with demand and just kind of curious what the pipeline might look like in terms of the healthcare and demand and whether or not Humana partnership might open up some newer potential relationships down the road? Well we’re focused on making Humana a success.
We have for a year now probably don’t hold me to that exact number but for quite some time consistently referred to getting a partner in 2015 and we are looking at and we are going to focus on their success.
I believe that that success will put Weight Watchers in a good light relative to the rest of the industry but that is our priority.
RJ it’s Nick.
The only thing I would add to that obviously the health plan space is important for us.
We continue to focus on strategic accounts business adding customers every quarter signed up Aon Nova [ph] recently for example and so it’s relatively a small piece of our portfolio less than $30 million but it’s forecast to grow at double-digit this year.
I think overall if you go back to our Investor Day we laid out a goal to get healthcare up to be a $300 million business by 2019.
It is still a very important strategic process for us the opportunity there is as much as we ever thought it was.
So realistically getting to that $300 million goal is going to be deferred beyond 2018 unless the trends change.
That was actually my next question so thanks.
The next question comes from Jerry Herman at Stifel.
Hi guys good evening everybody.
Jim I thought I would just ask a different spin on the 3% penetration question.
You guys now have effectively four product offerings let’s say.
Can you give us an idea what that mix looks like and also help us maybe connect [ph] with the average selling price and what that’s done given that changes? No in terms of the mix of this business if you look at how our businesses are performing Jerry probably what’s hurting our profitability this year is that the online business is declining for a second year with revenue down by about the same magnitude as last year.
That’s why we are clearly focused on adding value to the online offering through the click to chat and the personal coaching offerings.
But as we said we will be focusing on growing our meetings business also.
So the 3% represents the percentage of all subscribers is that correct that are using coaching? That’s the percentages of people that are selecting personal coaching.
That’s the new recruits that have chosen personal coaching since the start of the year.
I would like to stress we talked about mass marketing being important for this business also.
As you know Jerry kind of key to a successful so word of mouth and that is why we are very pleased with the great response rate we are getting from people who are trying personal coaching.
We are getting excellent feedback on the product as Jim mentioned 90% really like it.
So that’s why we feel we have got a good platform on which to build.
And just a general question about guidance we should assume that the inflection in new enrollment in 2015 is much a tougher challenge at this point is that correct or off the table completely? No look I would say to you look at the range of our guidance $0.40 to $0.70.
We are going to move fast and get the cost savings in any scenario.
So the variability in our guidance is more driven by the top line at the low end that assumes really a continuation of the type of recruitment trends we saw during 2014.
At the high end it assumes some modest improvement versus what we are currently experiencing that’s driving the high end of the guidance.
We’ll get to positive recruitments as soon as we can maybe towards the end of this year and may wait until winter diet [ph] is in ’16 but importantly as Jim’s outlined our strategies are the same.
We know what we have to do get there.
And probably just one last question I will turn it over if you look at your subscriber base of 2.5 million is there any way to calibrate the percentage or number of those users that sort of fall into the category of an exceptionally loyal Weight Watchers user that have recurred and returned? And really the basis of that question is there some level of volume that you represent or you believe is sort of foundational volume that volume you can depend on? I think the recurring nature of our business model has always been a factor.
So kind of the mix of new versus re-joins hasn’t changed materially.
I think history has shown that even folks who have done Weight Watchers before are more likely to come back when we have great new program news and market it well and we’re confident that can continue to drive the business in the future.
I think you could say there is a foundational behavior around returning to Weight Watchers as the program that worked.
Putting a number on that as far as percentage of people I don’t have to guess for that but certainly that behavior amidst consumers engaging with the chronic condition and trying multiple things whether it’s Do-it-Yourself programs whether it’s other activities the sentiment coming back to Weight Watchers being a fully integrated program that really does work and really does generate results that is a consistent theme.
Great thanks guys.
I will turn it over.
This concludes our question-and-answer session and the conference is also now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s event.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the Weight Watchers First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please also note today's event is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference call over to Ms.
Corey Kinger Investor Relations.
Ma'am please go ahead.
Brainerd Communicators Inc.</strong> Thank you Jamie and thank you to everyone for joining us for Weight Watchers International's first quarter 2015 conference call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2015 first quarter results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as a part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risk and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
My remarks today will focus on our Q1 performance and our near-term priorities in support of our transformation plan.
Nick will discuss the financials in more detail but to quickly summarize our first quarter results were in line with our expectations we shared with you in our February call.
First quarter revenue declined to $322 million adjusted operating income came in at $24 million and adjusted earnings per share was a loss of $0.09.
End of period global actives declined 20% year-on-year to 2.9 million with 1.7 million online and 1.2 million in meetings.
While Q1 results were helped by aggressive cost reductions our recruitments were negative across all of our geographic markets.
Our top and bottom line outlook for the year remains in line with what we had outlined on our last call with the negative recruitment trend expected to continue through the year.
Looking at our marketing efforts after a tough start to the year we have been testing and deploying different promotional tactics varying our messaging and delivery mechanisms as well as the depth and duration of discounts.
We have had some positive results.
For example the Lose 10 Lbs On Us promotion and the flash sale mechanism.
However our promotional lifts have not carried forward into sustained recruitment growth.
The U.S.
spring campaign features a strong call to action through compelling offers and advertising that presents a confident inspiring view of the Weight Watchers brand as well as the livability of our program.
Also this spring we are leveraging versions of the Lose 10 Lbs On Us offer in additional international markets.
I would like to step back now and provide some context on our transformation journey.
18 months ago we introduced our multi-year transformational plan.
Central to this plan is repositioning our brand improving our offering expanding our position in the healthcare channel and building organizational capabilities.
We are making progress on this plan.
Recently completed consumer research gives us new confidence in where our brand and offering can go and what will resonate with consumers.
Our market experience and testing is showing us how to evolve our recently introduced Expert Chat and coaching platforms.
We remain convinced that bringing our strategic advantage in human support into the digital realm will be a winning formula.
Our technology transformation is well underway and we are encouraged by the potential for improved effectiveness and significantly lower costs.
We continue to build functional capabilities and insights product marketing and engineering and our first U.S.
healthcare partnership is up and running.
However it will take longer than we thought to return to growth.
Our starting point proved to be more challenged than we thought particularly in the area of technology where our legacy systems and architecture have made change more difficult.
While we are encouraged by the product enhancements we introduced in winter season 2015 our efforts fell short of the mark as we did not meet the historical best practice of using compelling marketing to leverage meaningful program innovation.
We are fully engaged in executing our transformational plan.
We firmly believe we are pursuing the right strategies and are confident we can implement them successfully.
We have four implementation priorities that we are focused on delivering by the end of the year.
Number one complete the development of a meaningful new program innovation that broadens and strengthens our offer.
Two develop and validate our marketing approach in support of that innovation.
Three make our Humana partnership successful and four substantially complete our technology transformation.
Let me expand on these priorities.
While weight loss remains critically important increasingly consumers are asking us to think more expansively about the role Weight Watchers can play in their lives.
As we stated in our last call the underlying desire for weight loss is still a very important part of the equation.
However the consumer wants to get there through a more holistic mindset of generally healthier eating wellness and fitness with weight loss being a critical element of this bigger picture.
This new mindset is more forgiving and allows for success across many metrics and less emphasis on the number on the scale.
This suggests a compelling opportunity for Weight Watchers to take our program beyond the scale broadening our program to include fitness among other things.
The consumer gives us permission to play in this broader space with opportunities for both our face-to-face and digital offerings.
These are the insights that are driving the meaningful program innovation that we will be introducing for winter season 2016 as well as the marketing that will support its launch.
We have made significant progress in building the systems and processes to support our healthcare initiatives.
Our partnership with Humana is off to a positive start with the launch having gone well.
Humana members and qualified employer-sponsored health plans now have free access to six months in Weight Watchers through an integrated wellness program.
The partnership is in its early days and as we have said before we do not expect it to be a material contributor to revenue this year.
We remain enthusiastic about the potential of the partnership to lead the way and bringing Weight Watchers to more people as we expand participation in the healthcare channel.
A year ago we laid out an aggressive plan for technology transformation.
Some of the choices we made to meet the January 2015 new product introduction deadline extended our timeline but we now believe that our tech transformation will be substantially complete by yearend.
I've talked before about our efforts in our products and technology functions to improve our innovation process and move to agile product development.
I'm encouraged by our progress here as we have strengthened our teams and deployed new technologies resulting in the significant majority of our new development efforts now being agile.
Today we can release new digital functionality biweekly as compared to our prior capability of only a handful of releases per year.
Our agile development model as it has for numerous leading tech companies will allow us to build and validate new functionality more quickly and reliably than in the past.
In addition to techs rolling our agile product development efforts we have implemented new architectural choices and new development methodologies that will improve our effectiveness while lowering our costs.
We have ramped up our recruiting efforts to build our internal tech teams allowing us to reduce our dependence on external resources.
Part of our product and technology strategy involves making select tuck-in acquisitions that bring us capabilities and talent in strategic areas such as coaching fitness and community.
Over the last year we have made three such acquisitions namely Wello Weilos and most recently Hot5.
The teams of each are co-located in our San Francisco office.
In combination with their New York-based colleagues our new West Coast team brings strong design product and engineering expertise to our company.
Near-term we are focused on optimizing our current offerings broadening our stance for the future in both face-to-face meetings and digital and extending our capabilities.
Our near-term optimization efforts include expanding our API program improving the visitor site and sign-up experience and upgrading our search capability.
We're continuing to refine our coaching and Expert Chat platforms while we look to increase their penetration.
In the UK for example we are leveraging the expansion of Expert Chat through a strong social marketing campaign that demonstrates the power of providing anytime anywhere access to our roster of leaders for online members as well as in between meetings for meetings members members getting a real support from real people who have successfully lost weight and kept it off on the Weight Watchers program.
We are working hard on our short-term priorities as well as our strategies for going beyond the scale and returning Weight Watchers to growth.
We remain confident in our plan to transform our business.
Before I turn it over to Nick I would like to take a moment and pay respects to our founder Jean Nidetch who passed away last week at the age of 91.
What started as gatherings in our Queens New York living room became Weight Watchers the most well-known weight management brand in the world.
Jean was a true visionary who inspired millions to live a healthier lifestyle and achieve weight loss success.
We remain committed to carrying forth her legacy.
Now I'll turn it over to Nick.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
Before I discuss the results I would like to note the disclosure in this afternoon's 8-K regarding a pending restatement of our 2014 10-K.
To summarize as a result of conversations with the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission about a particularly complex and technical hardware accounting literature we have decided to reclassify how certain 2012 and 2013 franchise acquisitions appear on our balance sheet.
Specifically the balance sheet as of January 3 2015 will reflect a reduction of $38.9 million of franchise rights acquired and an increase in goodwill of $61.5 million.
Previously these franchise rights acquired were accounted as having an indefinite life; after the correction these rights will have a finite life without giving effect to any renewal rights.
The resulting difference in franchise rights will now be reallocated to goodwill.
As a result of this reclassification we have also reversed the $26 million impairment charge to franchise rights acquired which we took at yearend 2014 because of its difference in methodologies for impairment testing of franchise rights acquired versus goodwill.
There is no cash impact related to this reclassification and impairment reversal.
We intend to issue restated financial statements prior to the filing of our first quarter 10-Q.
Now to review our financial performance for the first quarter.
Our Q1 results were in line with the expectations we outlined on our February call with marginal operating income profitability and an EPS loss.
In the quarter total company revenue declined 16% on a constant currency basis to $322 million and we delivered adjusted operating income of $24 million.
The GAAP EPS loss was $0.10.
Excluding $0.06 in restructuring costs and a $0.05 gain as a result of our debt tender offer adjusted EPS loss was $0.09 per share.
Turning now to our results by geographic segments.
In the first quarter North America revenues declined 21.5% with meeting fees down 18.5% and online revenue down 24.3% all on a constant currency basis.
Meetings paid weeks declined 20.1% and online paid weeks declined 28.7%.
On a constant currency basis in the UK business first quarter total revenue was down 10.9% with meeting fees down 10.1% and online revenues down 12.7%.
Meeting paid weeks declined 12.1% and online paid weeks declined 13.1%.
In continental Europe total revenues declined 3.4% with online revenue up 1.7% and meeting fees down 8.9% all on constant currency.
Online paid weeks decreased 1% and meeting paid weeks declined 7.1%.
Now to review some additional financial metrics for Q1.
We incurred pre-tax restructuring charges of $5.8 million in connection with our previously disclosed plan to restructure our organization and a $4.8 million benefit on the early extinguishment of debt.
Now to the P&amp;L detail excluding the impact of those adjustments.
In the first quarter gross margin declined 500 basis points on a constant currency basis from the prior year to 49.5% primarily due to operating cost deleverage.
Q1 marketing expense decreased $21.8 million on constant currency to $87.3 million and G&amp;A expenses declined $4.1 million on constant currency to $48.2 million.
Our Q1 tax rate was 38%.
Our cash balance at quarter-end was $211 million after spending approximately $60 million on our debt tender offer.
As discussed on our last call our plan for 2015 has a focus on cash generation to enable us to pay down our remaining 2016 debt maturity and to invest in the business.
We are targeting to end the year with a cash balance of $290 million in line with our previous $350 million expectation when adjusted for the Q1 debt tender.
And now I'd like to provide our detailed guidance for 2015.
I view the year's operating performance as largely unchanged from what we shared in February.
For the year we expect revenue of $1.15 billion with the strengthening U.S.
dollar now driving an approximately $80 million decline versus prior year.
Since our last call our forecast incorporates some softening in the UK and CE markets partially offset by some marginal improvement in North America.
We are maintaining our full year adjusted EPS guidance in a range of $0.40 to $0.70.
This EPS guidance now includes an approximately $0.21 negative impact from foreign exchange versus the $0.15 impact in our original guidance and it also excludes the restructuring costs and the gain associated with our Q1 debt tender.
Included in our guidance is our $100 million gross cost savings target for 2015 which is on top of the $150 million gross cost reductions achieved over 2013 and 2014.
The 2015 cost initiatives are progressing on plan.
Operating expense savings are coming from meeting footprint optimization and field management restructuring marketing savings from changes in our media mix and lower production costs and G&amp;A savings primarily from reduced head count as well as lower professional fees.
In total we anticipate restructuring charges associated with this effort to total approximately $10 million for the year $5.8 million of which was recorded in the first quarter.
Now for some detail on our volume of metrics.
Total paid weeks are expected to be down in the high-teens for Q2 and for the full year with meetings paid weeks performing better than online.
In North America we anticipate that second quarter and full year revenues will decline by up to 20% on constant currency and Q2 paid weeks will decline in the low-20% range with meetings paid weeks performing better than online.
In the UK we expect revenue for Q2 and the full year to decline in the mid-to-high teens on constant currency.
UK Q2 paid weeks are expected to decline in the mid-to-high teens with meetings performing better than online.
And for CE we expect revenues to be down in the mid-to-high single-digit range on constant currency for Q2 and for the full year.
CE Q2 paid weeks are expected to be down in the mid-to-high single digits with online performing slightly better than meetings.
Now some detail on expenses factoring in the cost reduction actions that I have outlined.
We expect our gross margin percentage decline in Q2 to be similar to Q1 decline which reflects the lower volumes as well as the added costs for 24X7 Expert Chat and coaching.
We expect full year gross margin rate decline of approximately 450 basis points versus 2014 and this includes around 40 basis points of unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Q2 marketing expenses is expected to be in-line with last year's spend of $46 million and for the full year marketing expense is anticipated to be approximately $210 million as we focus our spend on key media that drives recruits.
This compares with marketing expense of $262 million in 2014 and approximately $15 million of the year-over-year decrease is driven by foreign exchange.
G&amp;A is expected to be in the $200 million range for the full year split relatively evenly across the quarters and this compares to $234 million in G&amp;A last year approximately $10 million of the year-over-year decrease in G&amp;A is driven by foreign exchange.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $123 million and our tax rate to be approximately 39%.
We now expect CapEx of less than $35 million in 2015 reflecting more focus on tech cost savings and D&amp;A is expected to be in the $55 million range.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator for questions.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Jason Anderson from Stifel.
Please go ahead with your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good evening guys.
Just wanted to ask about Humana.
You sounded like things are starting off pretty good.
I was wondering could you give us any maybe color on maybe take up rate or I realized it might be early but are you seeing enrollments or subscriptions happening through Humana? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Jason.
It is early and we are seeing take up and process of on-boarding and getting people going is working smoothly which as you know is where we made some considerable investments in our technology and processes this year.
I think that's right.
Launch has gone well it's great to see both teams working together to drive the business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then also just – and I know you are very focused on Humana and rightfully so.
But thinking as a whole healthcare corporate initiative even though we are focused there are you building a pipeline or is there any progress on a pipeline of additional partnerships happening or is there activity there is that more pushing out into 2016? Yeah.
Well look I think our strategy had been very focused on building the necessary capabilities and expertise to serve this space and that's why we were so thrilled to answer this partnership with Humana.
Now look we're focused on as we have been growing our strategic accounts business and that is pursuing good growth this year.
With regard to the healthcare space look job one is making the Humana relationship successful and where you saw us in probably in 2014 investing ahead of the curve you can expect us going forward to be investing in line with further opportunities as they arise.
But we remain very confident that there is good demand for Weight Watchers in the healthcare space.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we are in conversations and actively cultivating that pipeline and staying close to the changes in the regulatory environment which we feel will increasingly put us in a good position to add value to that channel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks and f I could squeeze in one more and I might have missed it my phone cut out.
The marketing expense is a bit lower than you had previously guided to did you say it was mostly FX or is there anything else or did anything push out to later in the year? In Q1 you're absolutely right Jason.
We had guided last time to $95 million came in at $87 million yeah FX was a major piece of that but some good cost actions by the team to really make every dollar we just spend effective.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Great thanks for all that.
Our next question comes from Meredith Adler from Barclays.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you very much.
I know this is a business that really gets its big energy towards the end of the year but are you expecting any kind of improvement based on the things you're doing right now between now and the end of the year? I think you said that you thought that North America would get a bit better but I'm a little concerned that you have a whole new program but it's not actually going to come out till the 2016 and then you got to wait and see how people respond to it? Is that a question? Yeah.
Meredith thanks – yeah look your perspective on North America is right our initial guidance was full year revenue to decline in the low 20% range now it's up to 20% so some marginal improvement there but it's just marginal improvement because really as we look across our markets our overall demand profile is what we thought it would be when we talked to you all at the end of February.
That doesn't mean to say we're not – we're doing some very good things starting with the promotion activity that Jim mentioned and running into a spring campaign to drive every recruit we can but a view of the top line is essentially pretty much how we're performing currently.
Our guidance doesn't really bake in much improvement as we go through the year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Meredith with respect to the end of the year as you know we do take advantage of the natural consumer tailwind when we can get it but to stress that our combination for this upcoming season includes a meaningful program innovation as well as clarity around the positioning that we will market against and that has been a historical success formula for Weight Watchers and it represents a considerable amount of work and that's what we are focused on making that a success for January.
Inc.</span></strong> That's fair.
And then I have another question.
In part of your marketing efforts are you doing anything uniquely for different kinds of customers? I think Jim you once talked about flavors and I'm wondering whether that's something that would be helpful if you were talking more particularly to the individual groups of people? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I think our flavors program was central to most of the international markets as they launched this past January.
And while I think it did build equity for exactly the reasons you're referencing it is a more customized approach allowing people to eat particular ways according to their preference more easily on our program.
It wasn't enough on its own to offset the recruiting challenges.
Further I think as we go forward and with respect to what we're going to do for the next winter season as well you will see us increasingly presenting customized and customizable options for consumers as we broaden the program and understand that they see things differently particularly as we look towards fitness where the range of activities that consumers would classify as fitness range from closer in to our consumers in terms of more activity and motion and then all the way out through significant intensive athletic activity which is the other end of the spectrum.
So by its nature that brings us down a bit of a more personalized or customized route.
So that continues to be a dimension of the strategy.
It did resonate in our European markets when we launched it this year in the form of flavors which was food personalization.
Inc.</span></strong> I do have one other question.
I'm assuming that some of the people you partner with and who pay you licensing revenues are aware of the fact that your membership has been declining.
Has there been any discussion about wanting to renegotiate or pull out of some of those licensing agreements? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think we would share details of specific negotiations and relationships with our partners.
I think we consider these to be strategic relationships and we consider them to be invested in our turnaround plans as well and work with them accordingly.
Yes and look a lot of our licensee partners who have been with us for many years so they've seen the business go through cycles and they know that we're very focused on renewing the brand and returning to growth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's fair.
Thank you very much for answering my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Meredith.
Our next question comes from R.J.
Hottovy from Morningstar.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yes.
Thanks and good afternoon.
I had a two-parter question about some of the new offering and pricing tiers that you put in place earlier in the year.
Jim with some of the discussion about increased promotional activity have you had any thought about where pricing currently stands with the different tiers and any potential changes or are you pretty comfortable with the pricing where that's at? Second question is if we could get an update on the level of engagement with the Personal Coaching.
I believe you said it was 3% on the last call as well as how consumers have adopted the 24/7 Chat and just what kind of levels of engagement you're seeing on that end.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
With respect to pricing I think in the framing of your question we are experimenting with a number of things.
I would see them all as contributing to our work around our value proposition pricing and promotion the ability to add value to our products and then finally how we experience the product some would consider it a freemium model.
There's a line between what might be sampled and what might be paid.
And we have significantly more testing and experimentation going on in this arena than we have had in the past but too early to tell exactly what the implications of that might be.
With respect to Personal Coaching the penetration of that remains low and we are focused on increasing that.
The satisfaction with Personal Coaching remains high.
We see it as a significant strategic opportunity for us as we did when we announced its launch to bring the power of our leaders to members in a digital environment and we will continue to experiment and continue to push the penetration of this product as we go forward.
Yes.
If I could just add to what Jim said on pricing.
Absolutely right kind of the focus on focused promotions and offers is a deliberate strategy and you can see in the 10 Lbs On Us example.
We're pleased with that innovation.
We'd like to stress though when you look at our pricing approach holistically while we are promoting more this year of course it's in the context of it being a very high-margin business where the value of an incremental recruit is substantial to us.
And also recall that at the start of the year we increased our pricing headroom with price increases.
So net-net we're actually experiencing better price realization in the first quarter versus same period last year when you look at those two impacts together.
Thanks.
I did have one quick follow-up question.
With remarks about the consumers taking a more holistic approach to weight management and overall wellness I wanted to see if we could get an update on the entire API launch the partnerships that you have out there.
What kind of adoption rates you've seen from your customers on that end and how that may play into the winter 2016 plan? I mean it's probably pretty early to tell but just any indications or any sense of how that's going would be helpful? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
As you set it up I think it's a good indication of the potential of the more holistic strategy.
We have on the order of 0.5 million connected members at this point with fitness devices and the penetration has been good and the affinity is natural.
And I think we see more opportunity there in the future as we go forward to not just to connect on a tools basis but further integrate fitness into our program thinking.
Our next question comes from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Thank you.
I know you guys talked a little bit about the pricing but can you talk a little bit about the whole 10 Lbs campaign and you said it had some impact but wasn't sustained.
Is this something where you need to keep the promotional levels higher as you go through the year? Is that something you can run more consistently I guess? And then one housekeeping item can you just give me a repeat of the gross margin guidance? I just want to make sure I nailed that? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll take the first one.
Yes.
I think we have more headroom in this business around intelligent promotion.
Versus other businesses I've been in our promotions are very profitable.
And I think when we look back to 10 Lbs On Us I think as we're continuing to do the analysis here I think we will see that there were value effects to that and that there were also behavioral encouragement effects to that that reduced the barriers for people to consider starting the program.
And I think that's why we'll see it as being successful and we are pushing it into other markets as we speak.
We won't talk about specific plans beyond that from a commercial perspective but I think it represents a foundation for us to expand throughout the year.
Yes.
And John on the gross margin in the first quarter gross margin declined on a constant currency basis 500 basis points.
And we expect Q2's decline to be similar to Q1 primarily lower volume driven and for the full year gross margin rate decline of approximately 450 basis points.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen we've reached the end of today's allotted time for the question-and-answer session and today's conference has now concluded.
We do thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your telephone lines.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers International Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Corey Kinger Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Brainerd Communicators Inc.</strong> Thank you Laura and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's second quarter 2015 conference call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:00 o'clock p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2015 second quarter results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as a part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law.
The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for today's call.
Our second quarter results came in ahead of our expectations.
And while we still have work to do we're making solid progress on our transformation.
To begin across all major geographies recruitment trends improved substantially in Q2 versus what we saw in Q1.
Globally total year-over-year recruitments while still negative were the best we have seen since the fourth quarter of 2012.
And notably we had positive year-over-year online recruitments in North America also a first since Q4 2012.
Second we're on track against our previously communicated objective to improve our cost structure by over $100 million on an annualized basis in 2015.
Third we are getting ready to launch one of the most significant and comprehensive program innovations in the history of this company; something that we are increasingly confident will change the trajectory of our business.
To quickly recap our second quarter performance revenue was $310 million adjusted operating income came in at $71 million and adjusted earnings per share was $0.42.
End of period global actives declined 17% year-over-year to $2.8 million with $1.6 million online and $1.2 million in meetings.
Stronger advertising and promotion contributed to the improvement in the Q2 recruitment trend.
Our U.S.
spring season marketing campaign which reflected a strong call to action and was paired with engaging creative resonated with consumers.
Our promotion plan continues to generate profitable member recruitments.
Our promotion tactics reflected a mix of traditional economic incentives as well as newer events such as our Lose 10 Lbs On Us promotion which drove engagement in richer ways.
We will continue to build on Q2's successful advertising and promotional approach into the fall season and beyond.
Late this year we will be launching perhaps the biggest innovation to our proven program in our history.
We are not going to share specifics ahead of the commercial rollout.
But as we stated before the underlying desire for weight loss is still a very important part of the equation.
However the consumer wants to get there through a more holistic mindset of healthier eating fitness and emotional strength with weight loss being a critical element of this bigger picture.
In support of this launch we are developing a new market campaign that will capitalize on the innovation and leverage the media and creative principles that historically had been successful in driving recruitments in our business.
Turning to our tech transformation.
You will recall that at the start of this turnaround our tech platform was a legacy challenge and one we committed to making an enabling asset.
We are on track to operate with far more speed and greater capabilities but at significantly lower costs.
Our tech and product teams are doing a tremendous job in building the capabilities to strengthen our offerings and enabling a pipeline of innovation.
For example in the second quarter we upgraded our visitor site supported by a new content management system delivered enhancements to search and navigation on our mobile products and introduced our Weight Watchers app for the Apple watch.
Our tech transformation is fully in sync with our broader efforts for our winter season 2016 innovation.
We feel good about our progress and our confidence and our timelines.
The majority of our consumer-facing capabilities will be operating on our new modern platform ahead of the program launch.
As we have built out our base of internal tech talent we have ratcheted down our use of external resources and thereby reduced our expenses.
With our new labor development and infrastructure models in place we are getting a lot more from tech at a significantly lower cost.
To give you some perspective technology-related cash spending this year is expected to be around $85 million in total down from $115 million at our peak last year.
And we expect to end the year at a roughly $60 million annual run rate.
Turning to our healthcare business.
Following the smooth operational launch of our partnership with Humana earlier this year we are proving our internal capabilities to deliver against healthcare market needs including HIPAA compliance billing and data reporting.
We are fully committed to the partnership and demonstrating its potential.
We are learning a lot together about how to best engage with Humana's covered population.
As we have previously communicated we do not expect the Humana partnership to deliver meaningful revenue this year.
However we continue to believe in the opportunity in the healthcare channel and remain convinced that Weight Watchers can play an important role in the healthcare system's fight against obesity.
And now I will turn it over to Nick.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
As Jim discussed our Q2 results demonstrated a marked improvement in the recruitment trajectory as compared to our first quarter especially in online.
While total recruits remained negative the overall trend improved substantially versus Q1 especially in North America where online recruitments comped positively for the quarter year over year.
In Q2 total company revenue declined 16.5% on a constant currency basis to $310 million.
And we delivered adjusted operating income of $71 million.
GAAP EPS was $0.49.
Excluding modest restructuring costs and a $0.07 gain as a result of our debt tender offer adjusted EPS was $0.42 per share.
Turning now to our results by geographic segment.
In the second quarter total North America revenues declined 18.4% with meeting fees down 17.8% and online revenue down 17.5% all on a constant currency basis.
Meetings paid weeks declined 18.3% and online paid weeks declined 22%.
On a constant currency basis in the UK second quarter total revenue was down 17.4% with meeting fees down 16.5% and online revenues down 15.5%.
Meetings paid weeks declined 15.4% and online paid weeks declined 17.7%.
In Continental Europe total revenues declined 9.1% with online revenue down 8.3% and meeting fees down 11.7% all on constant currency.
Online paid weeks decreased 8.5% and meetings paid weeks declined 9.8%.
Now to the P&amp;L detail on an adjusted basis.
In the second quarter gross margin was 51.3% representing a decline from the prior year of 590 basis points on a constant currency basis.
Our marketing spend was $40.3 million declining $2.5 million on constant currency.
G&amp;A expenses were $47.9 million a decline of $11.4 million on constant currency as we continued to exercise stringent cost discipline across the organization.
Our GAAP Q2 tax rate was 40.2%.
And now I'd like to provide our outlook for 2015.
We expect the improved recruitment trend versus Q1 to continue in the back half of the year with North America outperforming our previous expectations.
However we still anticipate that total Q3 and Q4 recruitments will remain down year-over-year.
We are encouraged that good marketing and promotions have helped stabilize the business but we do not expect to see a return to positive recruitment until next year after the launch of our new program innovation across all major markets.
So for the full year 2015 we continue to expect a revenue of approximately $1.15 billion with foreign exchange accounting for an approximately $75 million decline versus prior year.
Now for some detail on our volume metrics.
Total paid weeks are expected to be down in the mid to high-teens for Q3 and for the full year.
In North America we anticipate that third quarter and full year revenues will decline by up to 20% on constant currency and Q3 total paid weeks will decline in the high-teens.
In the UK we expect revenue for Q3 and the full year to decline in the mid-teens on constant currency.
UK Q3 total paid weeks are expected to decline in the mid-teens.
And for Continental Europe we expect revenues to be down in the mid-to-high single-digit range on constant currency for Q3 and the full year.
CE Q3 paid weeks are expected to be down in the mid-to-high single-digits.
Turning to our P&amp;L let me give you some color on our promotions strategy.
We continue to view the strategic use of promotions as an effective way to drive recruits in our category.
Recall that we implemented price increases late last year in North America.
Even with the use of promotions our price realization has been marginally higher in 2015 than it was in 2014.
And importantly we have seen no meaningful change in our member retention patterns.
We expect a gross margin percentage decline year-over-year of about 500 basis points in Q3 which reflects our lower volumes as well as our strategy to have our leaders engage with members online as well as the P&amp;L impact of our tech investments.
We expect a full year gross margin rate decline of approximately 525 basis points versus 2014 which is primarily driven by our lower volumes and also reflects higher winter season preparation costs this year.
This also includes around 30 basis points of unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Q3 marketing expense is expected to be down slightly versus last year and for the full year marketing expense is expected to be approximately $200 million down about $60 million from 2014 as we focus our spend on key media that drives recruits and lower non-working media costs.
Approximately $15 million of the year-over-year decrease is driven by foreign exchange.
We expect G&amp;A in the $190 million range for the full year split relatively evenly across the quarters.
This compares to $234 million in G&amp;A last year and approximately $10 million of the year-over-year decrease in G&amp;A is driven by foreign exchange.
Our cost savings initiatives are progressing on plan and this guidance reflects our $100 million gross cost savings target for 2015 on a constant currency basis.
After our significant head count restructuring early in the year year-to-date restructuring charges totaled about $6 million and for the full-year 2015 we anticipate restructuring charges of approximately $10 million with the balance primarily related to planned office space consolidation.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $122 million and that tax rate to be approximately 40%.
We continue to expect CapEx of less than $35 million in 2015 reflecting more focus on tech cost savings.
D&amp;A is expected to be in the $55 million range.
We are adjusting and updating our full-year adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $0.57 to $0.72.
This EPS guidance includes an approximately $0.19 negative impact from FX but excludes the restructuring costs and the gains associated with our debt tenders.
Now I'd like to update you on our balance sheet and capital structure.
At quarter-end our cash balance was $150 million which reflects the cash prepayments from our June debt tender.
Like our tender in Q1 we were able to prepay a portion of our B-1 2016 maturity at a 9% discount versus par.
Combined in these two transactions we spent $134 million in cash resulting in savings of $14 million on our principal payment.
At Q2 end we had $140 million in debt due in April 2016.
And we continue to be comfortable with our cash and liquidity position in respect to both meeting this obligation and funding our transformation.
During Q3 we decided to augment our already strong cash position.
And we fully drew down our available $48 million revolver.
Based on our expectations that we will generate cash in the back half of the year and including the addition from the revolver drawdown we expect to end the year with a cash balance of approximately $250 million.
Now I will turn it back to Jim for a few closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Nick.
Let me finish by thanking the entire Weight Watchers team around the globe for the solid progress we are making.
Our focus as we move forward is on building on the positive momentum from Q2 through the rest of the year and setting the stage for a return to recruitment growth in 2016.
If you look at the history of Weight Watchers you will see that we have a successful track record of overcoming downturns in our business.
A key catalyst for revitalizing growth has consistently been major program innovation supported by strong commercial execution.
We are confident we will be delivering a winning combination this winter.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'll now turn the call to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session And our first question will come from Meredith Adler of Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hello.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
I guess I wanted to understand a little bit better how you think about this new program and maybe how you think customers or consumers are going to respond to it? What does your focus group say? And how long do you think it will take for people to really understand the changes you've made? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Meredith I think I can answer some of that.
But as I said there's certain details around the commercial plan that we won't touch on.
I think that consumers are going to understand this and align with this quickly.
What we've done is a deep understanding of where they are.
So we're not creating something new for them.
We're meeting the key needs that they have described in how they want food to represent healthy eating to them and not simply calories.
And how they want to integrate fitness into their lives and how they want to find the strength to sign up and to continue in these kinds of holistic improvement efforts.
So I think it's going to be a pretty smooth uptake from that perspective.
In our testing which is happening in a slightly different model this year than last year.
This year we're developing in a much more iterative way.
So we have more testing and we have earlier testing of things.
We've had very positive responses to the elements that we have changed at a program level.
So we're feeling quite confident about that as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then maybe I'm just curious to know what kind of feedback you've gotten from customers about the changes you've already made in how they can connect with Weight Watchers? And is everything working the way you wanted it to? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So the – are you referring to the capabilities we put in place at the beginning of this year around...
Inc.</span></strong> Yes yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> ...bringing the leaders in contact with the member population? Inc.</span></strong> That's right.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So in – I'll take that in two pieces I guess.
The first has to do with our Click to Chat functionality that we've put into the product and the second has to do with Coaching which we launched as a product.
So from a Click to Chat perspective I think it's one of the things that represents the improvement in our digital product suite in addition to some of the other things I mentioned on the call like search and navigation.
But I think it's the access to leaders in the digital product is one of the things that has improved its performance.
And while we have a lot to learn and a lot to improve like any launch and product evolution I think that has strengthened those products.
With respect to Coaching we see pretty much the same thing that I referenced on the last call that the continuance of people being highly satisfied with the interaction with Weight Watchers Coaches in that one-on-one model but still low penetration of Coaching as a product.
And while we work on testing ways to improve that penetration we're really excited about the fundamental – the building block dimension of this which is that the core strategy of getting the coaches to interact in the digital realm with Weight Watchers' members is creating resonance and is improving things.
So a lot to do to drive the penetration of that product over time but also suggest ways that we can use Coaching as an activity in different ways to strengthen our offerings overall.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
And the next question comes from R.J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Yes thanks.
Had another question about the program innovation that you're planning.
And Jim I appreciate you not wanting to give too many details about the platform.
But given that you've said that it ties into the idea that consumers want a more holistic approach to wellness and fitness and that Weight Watchers being a key component of that just trying to get a sense of what – how this – what shape this program takes and how you fully address the other parts of the holistic approach that you don't actively have a competency in such as the fitness and wellness whether this means exploring other options or other partnerships or just other ways how you offer a more complete solution any details that you could give us that would be helpful? And then additionally is there any other additional cost required with this – with this platform? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think unfortunately your question's right down the middle of the fairway of details around the program that I don't really want to address too deeply.
We do – of course had development costs associated with the program and testing costs associated with the program.
I've referenced the technology approach to how we are building it.
And I'll say we will continue to as I mentioned to Meredith we will continue to leverage the strategy of increasing the presence of our service providers into the digital realm but I can't give too much more detail than that.
Yeah R.J.
I'll just talk to the cost of a program a little bit.
Obviously last year we introduced the strategic capabilities that Jim mentioned.
And within our 525 basis points of gross margin deterioration probably around 100 basis point of that is added delivery cost associated with bringing our service provider to the online space obviously that's in the past.
In the forecast for 2015 that we've shared today the move from a 450 prior gross margin deterioration guidance to 525 now that's primarily driven by the one-time costs linked to the introduction of our winter season innovation including training of service providers and supporting materials and supporting technologies so the costs to launch are certainly all baked into our guidance.
Thanks.
Second question I had just is regarding the healthcare initiatives and just whether or not – what kind of ideas you have and what the pipeline looks beyond Humana and any other ideas and in terms of how you go about finding your healthcare partners and what they're saying on that end.
And then also if you have – now that you're beyond six months with the platform with Humana any kind of statistics on the members that you've been able to enroll through Humana.
Any retention rates or anything like that any details that you could share with us on that end that that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
So our work with Humana as you mentioned started about six months ago when we kicked off.
And our primary focus has been around improving our operational capabilities to meet what the healthcare channel requires in terms of privacy and data management and reporting and things of that nature.
It's important to note that we have only recently dug into turning on the marketing effort.
So we're switching the focus from proving out the operations to engaging their populations and we're working with them on how best to do that.
Overall I would say from 18 months ago maybe even a little more when we started talking about the healthcare initiative the one thing that has proven to be a bit different is how the interpretation of the regulations have unfolded.
So as the – as we believe that we meet the requirements for the USPSTF's recommendation around intensive behavioral counseling and therefore should be covered the interpretation of plans in the health channel their interpretations have been much slower to evolve and frankly there has been quite a bit of confusion around what this means and who meets these requirements.
So overall I think this has made it a little more difficult for us to develop a pipeline quickly but hasn't lowered our expectation for what this can do for us over time and how important a role we can play in that healthcare system.
In 2016 I would say that it's probably another learning year for us with smaller number of partners as we continue to influence folks and prove to them that we meet the requirements and continuing to push our strength as a broad scale-based cost-effective and highly from a weight loss perspective efficacious provider.
And we'll just keep those strengths in mind as we continue to develop the channel.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question will come from Alex Christensen of Craig-Hallum.
Hey guys.
Looks like you guys had a good quarter especially the way that the market is responding this afternoon.
I just had a couple questions for you guys.
The first one the thing that struck me was – it looks like sequentially even despite not being the peak of diet season your active subscribers in North America grew.
And so I was wondering what kind of – what you're taking from that what specifically with your promos was strong and how you're going to integrate that into next diet season? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So that's – I'll take this from the point of reference around what specifically drove the improved performance and particularly in North America.
I think I had mentioned before that our digital products fundamentally are getting better.
They're getting stronger.
But to add to this our advertising and promotion efforts in the North American markets were stronger.
We combined the "Lose 10 lbs on us" promotion with a return to I'll call it the tactics from a media perspective that have been proven in the category which are based more on call to action advertising and higher levels of GRP.
So we've changed up our media mix.
We've changed up the creative.
We integrated a promotion that has a lot of leverage at the consumer level.
And I think that is what has improved the trend fundamentally.
With respect to the promotion I mentioned "Lose 10 lbs on us." It has been a good performer for us and it works at a couple of levels.
It works like the rest of our promotions have.
It works at a fundamental economic level that encourages participation.
But it also had some pretty good kind of behavioral influences on the consumer.
It created a buzz and a more sharable construct that this was new from Weight Watchers.
And it has created a different kind of invitation to Weight Watchers.
I think consumers have seen us always given us the due credit for being an effective weight loss program but seen us maybe a bit more about transformation.
And this was an invitation as I mentioned.
It was "Lose 10 lbs".
It seemed doable.
It seemed inviting.
It was something that wasn't as off-putting.
And so we found it had a very strong effect.
So we ran that promotion on the signup dimensions of web and mobile obviously but we also integrated into the television advertising and digital.
And it had a much better than the trend we had been seeing.
It had a pretty strong impact.
So I think that is the biggest driver.
Okay.
Great.
I mean that's very helpful.
Another question looking at – I know you guys have talked in the past about as volumes decrease a little bit in your weight loss centers.
You're consolidating two meetings into one so that you can save on expenses there.
How is that going? Have you seen success in keeping a critical mass in those meetings? Yeah.
No.
As part of our $100 million cost saving strategy and you see the impact of that demonstrated in the year-over-year decreases in marketing and G&amp;A.
But operating efficiencies and meeting consolidations are an important part of that strategy also and the teams executing that strategy well.
Now obviously despite all those great efforts still see gross margin deteriorating 525 basis points this year.
That's primarily driven by the volume impact and the fact that as I mentioned we added some cost to this system for Click to Chat.
But we're comfortable that as we return to recruitment growth in 2016 we've got a optimized meeting network to take advantage of that growth.
Great.
Thanks James.
Thanks Nick.
The next question will come from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Just want to follow up on sort of the effectiveness of the promotion with a couple of questions here which is you guys have been talking to your consumers a lot lately.
And I guess is this something – taking the price points down what have you is it not something that had come up in all the research that you guys have been doing with your consumers? And then I guess as you look at sort of the consumers you've brought in when is it the right time to know whether they are going to stay.
Right? So you brought them in for what is a shorter-term promotion.
What – how long before you know whether they will stick with you over the longer term? And then I guess the third question here would be – and I apologize for asking three questions at one time.
If this is working why not amp up the marketing behind this promotion instead of taking the marketing spending down over the balance of the year? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So let me see if I can try the first couple in a general sense.
So having been around and worked in a number of categories one of the things that has really been impactful about this category is when we promote we have very profitable returns on that promotion.
I've been in businesses where that's not the case.
And so the range of things we do is within a context of number one they're all – they're all pretty profitable events.
With respect to price in talking to our consumers I think price in this category has an economic effect like it does in other categories.
But it's not a very rational category and therefore price has an emotional effect too it's a stimulant to do something.
It's a removal of a barrier.
The comment I was making about what was unique about or not unique but impactful about the "Lose 10 lbs on us" was that beyond that the dimensions that the consumer is engaging with were sort of new forms of attractiveness that were associated with the structure of the promotion itself.
So not to get too deep into this but "Lose 10 lbs on us" as I mentioned "10 lbs" seemed manageable.
"On us" seemed to be we're doing this together and you have confidence in your program so you're behind it.
And so the dialogue with consumers around this was less about the price dimension and more about the other things that this promotion was saying and how it was creating momentum for them to join.
With respect to the marketing question as executed we did tie it with marketing the promotion is present in the marketing spots.
With respect to how much marketing we might do in the future and whether it's effective that's a dynamic proposition and we have consistently said that where we see tactics that work we'll spend more money on those tactics.
In the aggregate I think we have the right kind of marketing budget for us and we'll spend it behind the things that generate the most results.
Yeah let me just add to that John.
On pricing a declining gross margin this year it's all about volume and it's all about investments in the business.
So the overwhelming driving factor is meetings deleverage.
So frankly within that 525 basis points of gross margin deterioration just want to stress that the total impact of pricing and promotion for the year is positive 20 basis points.
So our price realization in the business is higher than it was in 2014 partly because of the price increases we took in North America but that's being followed up with the strategic use of promotions as we've discussed.
And then importantly we track the behavior of people on the program very closely.
And whether or not somebody joins our program for a one-month or three-months sign-up initially whether or not they're joining they're going to "Lose 10 lbs on us" promotion or Free Starter Kit offer or a "Bring a Friend" promotion on the meetings business we're pleased with our retention trends in all aspects of the business that we see and haven't seen any meaningful impact in our retention trends.
Got it.
Thank you.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Corey Kinger Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Brainerd Communicators Inc.</strong> Thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's third quarter 2015 conference call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:15 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2015 third quarter results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are also available as a part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
My remarks today will cover three topics.
First as Nick will discuss with cost performance ahead of our expectations we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.39 for the quarter.
Second the December launch of our comprehensive program innovation is fast-approaching.
We have been working on key aspects of this launch for over a year and we are confident it will be a major driver of our company's return to recruitment growth.
And third after the close of the quarter on October 19 we announced a groundbreaking partnership with Oprah Winfrey.
We could not be more excited about the opportunities presented by this wide-ranging and long-term relationship and what this will do to accelerate our company transformation.
So let me start by addressing the market-facing impact of our partnership with Oprah.
In a few minutes Nick will provide some color on the financial terms of the relationship.
Oprah Winfrey is not only a highly respected and influential public figure but also an extraordinary human being.
Our entire company is proud to have this opportunity to partner with her and our common view of the future is compelling.
I've been personally touched by her candor about her own weight loss journey and her strong belief in our mission and believe that both current and prospective members will be equally inspired to join her in a journey to living healthier happier lives.
Oprah has a remarkable ability to connect with people and inspire them to realize their full potential which is uniquely complementary to our powerful community extraordinary coaches and proven program.
Oprah's role with Weight Watchers will be multi-faceted.
As a member over this coming year and beyond she will candidly share her experiences through a variety of means including an action plan where she will invite prospective members to come join her.
As a board member and adviser she will bring insight and strategy to program development and execution that reflects not only her own experiences as a member but also her unique ability to inspire and connect people to live their best lives.
As an owner she is invested in our growth and success.
As she recently commented "This was a personal decision that allowed me to make a smart business decision.
I always lead with my heart because the truth is my heart is my brand." This is a long-term strategic relationship.
We are excited about the opportunities it presents on many levels and while we are not discussing our detailed execution plans today Oprah will be part of the upcoming winter season marketing effort inviting prospective members to join her on her journey.
The response to this partnership announcement has been terrific.
The general press has taken a great interest in the news and we have seen significant improvement in visitors to our website which has translated into a strong response in the business albeit during a seasonally low period.
Turning now to our third quarter performance.
Revenue was $273 million adjusted operating income came in at $64 million and adjusted earnings per share was $0.39.
End of period global active subscribers declined 13% year-over-year to 2.6 million active subscribers with 1.5 million active subscribers online and 1.1 million active subscribers in meetings.
Q3 member recruitment trends while still negative overall were in line with our expectations and continued to reflect improvement versus what we experienced early in the year.
In addition to repeating our successful Lose 10 Lbs On Us! promotional campaign in the U.S.
we introduced local versions in certain international markets with positive results.
As you've heard me say before our technology transformation is a vital part of our overall company transformation and we continue to make solid progress on this front.
As we maintain our laser focus to be well-prepared for winter season I am pleased to report the majority of our consumer-facing functionality will be operating on our new platform by launch.
The innovation that we will be launching both in meetings and online in all our major markets has been built on strong consumer insights.
Today's consumers want more than diet and restriction.
They want a more holistic and personalized solution integrating healthier eating fitness and emotional wellbeing.
Based on the feedback from the thousands of test participants who have been on the new program we believe we have developed a program that consumers will love a program that meets them where they are and one that will make a difference in their lives.
And now I will turn it over to Nick.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
First to recap some details of our recently announced long-term partnership with Oprah Winfrey; as Jim mentioned Ms.
Winfrey invested $43.2 million to purchase 6.4 million shares of Weight Watchers common stock in a private placement offering.
In addition in conjunction with this strategic collaboration agreement she received 3.5 million vested stock options.
Consistent with our shared commitment to a long-term partnership her liquidity rights will phase-in over the next five years.
Following the transaction Artal owns 46.3% of Weight Watchers total shares outstanding or 41.9% on a fully diluted basis assuming all outstanding stock awards vest and are exercised.
Artal and Winfrey have entered into a voting agreement where together they control 56% on a fully diluted basis assuming all stock-based awards vest and are exercised.
Turning to our Q3 results.
In Q3 total company revenue declined 15.6% on a constant currency basis to $273.3 million and we delivered adjusted operating income of $64.2 million.
GAAP EPS was $0.38 and excluding restructuring costs of $0.01 per share adjusted EPS was $0.39.
This was prior; Q3 included a $0.07 per share unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
And while still negative Q3 recruitment trends continued to show stability and were in line with our expectations and our EPS was better than expected due to continued good cost management by the entire team.
The stabilization in our recruitment performance and continued solid member retention are reflected in our year-to-date global paid weeks' trends.
In Q3 year-over-year global paid weeks declined 15.7% an improvement from declines of 17.6% in Q2 and 18.9% in Q1.
In Q3 we saw a sequential improvement from Q2 in our paid weeks' trends in our major geographies.
In the third quarter total North America revenues declined 17.9% with meeting fees down 18.1% and online revenue down 16.4% all on a constant currency basis.
Meetings paid weeks declined 17.6% and online paid weeks declined 19.5%.
On a constant currency basis in the U.K.
third quarter total revenue was down 14.8% with meeting fees down 13.4% and online revenues down 14.5%.
Meetings paid weeks declined 12.4% and online paid weeks declined 15.3%.
In Continental Europe total revenues declined 8% with meeting fees down 10.4% and online revenues down 6.8% all on constant currency.
Meetings paid weeks declined 9.1% and online paid weeks decreased 7.4%.
Now to the P&amp;L detail on an adjusted basis.
In the third quarter gross margin was 50% representing a decline from the prior year of nearly 400 basis points on a constant currency basis.
Our marketing spend was $27.2 million declining $7.7 million on constant currency as we continued to focus our spend on key media that drives recruits and to lower our non-working media costs.
G&amp;A expenses were $45.2 million a decline of $10.9 million on constant currency as we continued to exercise stringent cost discipline across the organization.
Our GAAP Q3 tax rate was 33.1%.
And now I'd like to provide our updated outlook for 2015 all on a constant currency basis.
In North America we anticipate that full year revenues and total paid weeks will decline in the 20% range.
In the U.K.
we expect revenue and total paid weeks for the full year to decline in the mid-teens and for CE we expect revenues and total paid weeks to be down in the mid to high single-digit range for the year.
Total global paid weeks are expected to be down in the mid to high teens for the full year.
We now expect full year 2015 revenue of roughly $1.16 billion with foreign exchange accounting for an approximately $75 million decline versus prior year.
We expect a full year gross margin rate decline of up to 525 basis points versus 2014 which is primarily driven by our lower volumes.
This includes around 30 basis points of unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
Full year marketing expense is anticipated to be approximately $200 million down by about $60 million from 2014 and approximately $15 million of the year-over-year decrease is driven by foreign exchange.
We expect G&amp;A to be approximately $185 million for the full year down from $234 million last year and approximately $10 million of the year-over-year decrease is driven by foreign exchange.
Our cost-savings initiatives are progressing well and this guidance reflects us modestly exceeding the $100 million gross cost savings target for 2015 on a constant currency basis that we announced in February.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $122 million and our tax rate to be approximately 38.5%.
We continue to expect CapEx of less than $35 million in 2015 reflecting our focus on tech cost savings.
And D&amp;A is expected to be in the $55 million range.
With the positive response to our partnership with Ms.
Winfrey that we have seen to date combined with our upcoming program launch in December it is now likely that global recruitments will be positive in the fourth quarter.
Recall that Q4 is our seasonally lowest volume quarter but includes costs associated with our program launch.
And in anticipation of an even stronger response to our December program roll-out we are selectively adding expenses to further support key launch and delivery areas such as call center and training.
We are also increasing marketing weights in the last week of December.
These added costs will more than offset the impact of the positive fourth quarter recruitments as most of the revenue benefits from Q4 recruits will fall into 2016.
And these assumptions and added expenses are reflected in our guidance provided today.
And as a result we are increasing our full year 2015 adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $0.64 to $0.74.
Note that we have previously assumed a share count of 57.2 million for the purposes of calculating full year EPS but following the private placement we now anticipate a weighted share count of 59 million.
This higher share count results in a $0.02 EPS negative impact for the year which is included in our guidance.
Our 2015 EPS guidance also includes an approximately $0.19 negative impact from foreign exchange versus prior year.
Note that the 2015 full year adjusted EPS guidance excludes one-time transaction expenses associated with the entering of the partnership with Oprah Winfrey the impact will be approximately $12.8 million or $0.14 per share stock option expense for the 3.5 million share option grant $0.11 per share in restructuring costs and the $0.12 per share in gains associated with our debt tenders.
Now I'd like to update you on our balance sheet and capital structure.
Our company has strong liquidity and demonstrates good cash generation even at these lower revenue levels.
At quarter-end our cash balance was $212 million and did not include the $43 million received from Oprah Winfrey's investment in Weight Watchers.
We expect to end the year with a cash balance in the range of $275 million.
Moving to our debt.
Recall that we started the year with $300 million due on our B-1 tranche in April 2016.
Following the completion of two debt tender offers earlier this year we now have a remaining balance of $144 million which we plan to repay in cash upon maturity.
In addition we have a $2 billion B-2 tranche which is not due until 2020.
Given our high margins and improved cost structure recruitment growth translates into substantial incremental cash generation and reducing leverage remains our capital structure priority.
You will recall that we have no financial leverage covenants on any of our debt minimal amortization and we also have the right to prepay before maturity.
Now while we are not giving any 2016 volume or EPS guidance today I'd like to take a minute to walk you through some of our current thinking for next year to assist you with your modeling.
Despite the improved trends overall recruitment in 2015 is negative.
Therefore we will begin 2016 with a lower starting actives base.
We estimate this will drive a negative impact of approximately $35 million in revenue and $0.25 of EPS versus prior year which disproportionately impacts our first quarter.
Note that this impact is independent of any 2016 recruitment assumptions.
It's just a quantification of the starting point to assist you with your modeling.
In addition note that we also have a higher share count for 2016 versus 2015 due to the partnership with Ms.
Winfrey.
We will continue to manage our marketing spend dynamically as we move through the year and at this time we expect that our Q1 2016 marketing spend will be comparable to 2015 levels.
As we return to recruitment growth we will continue to keep a tight lid on our overall cost structure so that we benefit from the operating leverage inherent in our business model.
We do not expect 2016 CapEx to be materially higher than 2015.
In summary we are very confident that our program innovation and strong marketing will drive recruitment growth throughout 2016 and as usual we plan to provide you with our full financial guidance for 2016 on our fourth quarter earnings call.
Now I will turn it back to Jim.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Nick.
The third quarter results reported today reflect a backward look at where we have been in recent years but not where I believe we are going.
We are all aware of the fact that obesity is a major problem in the U.S.
and growing globally.
We also know that consumers want to do something about it.
They want to lose weight and are actively trying to do so.
However in the face of this significant consumer demand Weight Watchers and commercial plans in general still have low market penetration.
Weight Watchers is the leading commercial weight loss plan.
Weight Watchers is a plan that works.
It is science-based proven in a multitude of clinical studies and enjoys a strong brand position in consumers' minds rooted in efficacy and trust.
This has never changed.
Yet despite this large unmet need and our leading brand position we have struggled to attract members in recent years.
Why? What has changed? Over the last few years as the world appified and activity monitors experienced significant increases in penetration our competitive frame shifted dramatically and we were competing for consumer attention with new competitors in a new ways.
In 2013 we embarked on a multiyear transformation plan confident that we could address these challenges and turn the company around.
Our transformation plan focused on reshaping our company to be consumer-driven enhancing our insights capabilities and improving how they translate into better marketing and winning product offerings including targeting ways to leverage our field service provider team a competitive advantage of tens of thousands of dedicated successful role models who have lost weight on Weight Watchers and kept it off.
And we committed ourselves to turn our technology environment from what was a legacy challenge into an enabling asset.
As we engaged with our new external realities we realized three critical things.
First while activity monitors did initially crowd out consumer trial over time they are in the consumers' eyes and behavior patterns in fact complementary to their weight loss efforts not a stand along solution.
Belatedly we opened up our technology environment and added the capability for our members to easily integrate any leading device to their Weight Watchers experience.
In fact penetration of activity monitors amongst the Weight Watchers member base is significantly higher than that of the population at large.
Second free apps on the other hand are directly competitive but are they effective? The weight loss category has a history of free alternatives generating massive waves of trial only to be judged in retrospect by whether or not they solved the consumer's problem.
Here while undoubtedly more work will be done in the future a recent independent study assessing the efficacy of the leading free weight loss app published in the Annals of Internal Medicine found no significant change in body weight over six months.
Third and most importantly while consumers are deeply interested in weight loss their mindset has changed.
They want to get there in new ways.
Less attractive is the approach of dieting and restriction.
Rather they are seeking solutions that reflect a more holistic integration of healthy food choices relevant fitness activity and the right degree of personalization.
We have responded to this consumer reality developing what is perhaps the most significant program innovation in our company's history.
Our new product strategy reflects this more holistic mindset as we expand our purpose from weight loss alone to more broadly helping people lead healthier happier lives.
With our launch next month we will be unveiling a whole new Weight Watchers.
Historically in addition to attracting new members major program innovations have reignited our former member base.
We believe our new innovation will resonate strongly with them.
With 20 million former members in North America alone many of whom have a high regard and affinity for our services and our brand it only takes a small percentage to return to make a meaningful impact on our current active base of 1.6 million.
And now we have a partnership with Oprah Winfrey.
Oprah will bring new magic to this great company.
She will inspire consumers and improve our ability to create strong brand experiences for their individual journeys.
I have every confidence that this will accelerate our company transformation and will have a significant positive impact on millions and millions of lives over the coming years.
Let me finish by thanking the entire Weight Watchers team around the globe for their continued efforts on our transformation plan and in particular their efforts in preparation for this winter season.
Thanks for joining us today and I'll now turn the call to the operator for Q&amp;A.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from Alex Fuhrman of Craig-Hallum Group.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions and congratulations a lot of exciting developments here.
One thing I really wanted to touch in here is your plan for marketing expense.
Obviously with Oprah joining into a strategic partnership here it seems like there is an incredible opportunity to market with her.
How much of the – as you think about your marketing expense being more or less flat in Q1 how much should we think about that marketing expense being geared towards communicating changes around the new program launch you have? I'm curious to what kind of a marketing trend you would typically see in a year when you launch a program change versus perhaps you're maybe willing to put more marketing dollars into your campaign for this diet season knowing that maybe you're going to get a better bang for your buck having Oprah on board? Just trying to understand kind of where that's coming from from those two buckets.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Alex.
It's Jim.
Thanks for the question.
Yeah we're – to start where you started we're super excited obviously and Oprah will play a role in our upcoming marketing efforts.
Without giving away too much commercially sensitive information I would say that we do have a couple of strong messages to put to the market this year.
One is around the program and what is new about it and what it brings and the promise for consumers.
And the other is Oprah and her invitation for folks to join her.
The only other thing I'll add is I think we have plenty of ammunition in Q1 and I think our marketing is going to be very effective strengthened by the fact that we have both of those messages and two strong ways to talk to them.
The only thing I'd add to that is as we've seen in addition to our own marketing efforts buzz and word of mouth can be such a powerful tool for this brand and we're very confident with having such wonderful news.
That can certainly play a major role in our 2016 efforts also.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
And then it sounds like there is a lot of optimism about your ability to perhaps get back to positive recruitment growth in Q4 or next year.
It doesn't seem like that's reflected certainly in the price of your debt.
What is the thinking? I mean you mentioned that with the growth in recruitment you could have a really strong generation of free cash flow here.
I mean is there thought towards maybe being proactive and pre-paying some of the B2s while they still remain cheap? Or are you going to kind of allow some cash to accumulate on the balance sheet after you get through the B1 repayment and then kind of reassess things this time next year? Well thanks for that.
Look it's a great question and we are thrilled to guide that we'll be returning to more than likely returning to positive recruitment growth in Q4.
And we expect to have positive recruitment throughout 2016.
We've got the same high margin business model we've always had and we've taken a lot of costs out of this company.
So as we return to recruitment growth we throw off a lot of cash.
And we look forward to using it.
Great.
That's really helpful.
I look forward to seeing the new changes in a few months.
Our next question comes from R.J.
Hottovy of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
First question I had was with respect to investment and particularly the healthcare and the tech investments you guys have been making.
Nick I appreciate you probably don't want to give away your 2016 CapEx guidance for the year or even just the investment spending but just kind of maybe give us a little bit of color where you stand on the technology and the healthcare investments as we look into the 2016 and potentially beyond that? Yeah.
No thanks R.J.
Look I mean throughout this transformation we've had stringent cost controls but we've invested where we've needed to to build for our future.
So when you look at what's been driving our historically high CapEx the tech transformation and our retail reinvention our footprint reinvention are behind this.
So in 2016 we'll continue to invest in the business for growth but we don't expect 2016 CapEx to be materially higher than the $35 million or so we're guiding to for 2015.
Thanks.
Also had a product-related question; as I was playing around with the Weight Watchers sales website earlier this weekend I noticed that there was a – at least for a few days ago there was a test for at-home pre-portioned meals in a partnership that looks like with Chef'd and I just kind of wanted to get your sense on what that might be going forward? And kind of your plans for at-home pre-portioned meals and the opportunity that that partnership might open up? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi R.J.
It's Jim.
I think this is first and foremost a reflection of the amount of innovation and the work we are doing to understand how best to serve our consumers and our members across a broad range of activities.
It is real early days for the partnership that you referenced but the idea here is to provide convenience oriented healthy food choices again consistent with the direction we're heading in in ways for consumers that they know this is going to fit their point budget for the day.
So that's the idea.
Again early days.
And it's way too early to kind of predict how far and in what way we'll take that forward.
Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session and also concludes our call for today.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Weight Watchers Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Corey Kinger Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Brainerd Communicators Inc.</strong> Thank you Amy and thank you to everyone for joining us today for Weight Watchers International's fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
With us on the call are Jim Chambers our President and Chief Executive Officer and Nick Hotchkin our Chief Financial Officer.
At about 4:15 p.m.
Eastern Time today the company issued a press release reporting the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter and full year results.
The purpose of this call is to provide investors with some further details regarding the company's financial results as well as to provide a general update on the company's progress.
The press release is available on the company's corporate website located at www.weightwatchersinternational.com.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures are disclosed on this conference call to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures of which are also part of the press release.
Before we begin let me remind everyone that this call will contain forward-looking statements.
Investors should be aware that any forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed here today.
These risk factors are explained in detail in the company's filings with the Securities Exchange Commission.
Please refer to these filings for a more detailed discussion of forward-looking statements and the risks and uncertainties of such statements.
All forward-looking statements are made as of today and except as required by law the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information of future events or otherwise.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Chambers President and Chief Executive Officer of Weight Watchers International.
Jim? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Corey.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
I'm very pleased to say that our transformation is building momentum and delivering on our core objective of driving recruitment growth.
We have introduced a new Weight Watchers through our Beyond the Scale program and it is resonating with consumers.
Furthermore our partnership with Oprah Winfrey is off to a strong start and her involvement has already contributed to renewed interest in our brand.
While we have more work to do we are highly confident in our direction and pleased by our improving performance.
My remarks today will focus on three areas.
First our business performance where in the fourth quarter our business fundamentals strengthened.
Second we'll assess our winter season which started with the launch of our holistic Beyond the Scale program including the rollout of our new SmartPoints food plan and introduced Oprah Winfrey as a partner in our marketing and member engagement activities.
And third following Nick's discussion of our financial performance I will outline our path forward including our focus areas for 2016.
Starting with our 2015 performance for the full year revenue was $1.16 billion adjusted operating income came in at $190 million and adjusted earnings per share was $0.67.
We ended the year with 2.4 million global active members with 1.4 million online and 1.0 million in meetings.
Since the very slow start we experienced in January of 2015 we have seen positive improvements in our recruitment trends.
In fact in Q4 for the first time since 2011 we had positive year-over-year global recruitments on a like-for-like week's basis led by particular strength in North America.
Through 2015 we reduced our gross annualized expenses by $250 million versus our 2012 cost base.
We have fundamentally changed the cost culture of the company so now as we return to growth we have enhanced operating leverage.
Entering winter season we were confident that our partnership with Oprah Winfrey would accelerate our transformation by amplifying the impact of our new Beyond the Scale program launch.
Since the launch both meetings and online recruitments have been growing with strong contributions from both rejoining as well as new members.
Particularly gratifying is the strong double-digit recruitment growth in our North America meetings business.
Since our new program launch our best performing markets are the U.S.
Canada the UK and Australia.
The performance of Continental Europe is not quite as strong but our teams are quickly adjusting our advertising and promotional strategies to improve further the results there.
Now let's take a closer look at our new Beyond the Scale program.
In early December we launched Beyond the Scale globally.
Beyond the Scale represents a new core program for Weight Watchers and takes a more holistic approach in line with consumers' mindsets.
Key themes of Beyond the Scale include first losing weight while at the same time making healthier eating simple.
Our new SmartPoints food plan delivers weight loss while using the latest nutritional science to go beyond counting calories.
While everything is still on the menu SmartPoints takes our strongest stance ever on eating healthier foods by nudging members toward a pattern of eating that includes more lean protein fruits and vegetables and less sugar and saturated fat.
Members tell us they are having great weight loss success on the program and satisfaction levels are high.
We believe following the SmartPoints food plan is highly differentiated from generic calorie counting.
The second theme is moving more with fitness that fits your life.
Our new fitness approach offers a personalized FitPoints activity goal whether members want to get active and don't know where to start or are ready to take it to the next level.
In addition to help guide members on a variety of simple ways to turn everyday down-time into up-time we introduced a new free standalone app FitBreak which offers a series of easy routines to stay active.
And third personalizing Weight Watchers for you.
We're encouraging members to define their own success create their own goals take the time to appreciate themselves and celebrate their weight loss as well as non-scale victories along their individual journeys.
Based on a personal assessment members receive customized daily and weekly SmartPoints targets and can set their own activity goals.
With content designed to help find and fuel inner strength we are focused on giving members the motivation to stay inspired and the positive energy to keep going.
In addition this winter season as part of our improved digital experience we launched Connect a new social platform embedded in our mobile app that brings the support and magic of the Weight Watchers community to members anytime any place.
Connect is a safe trusted place where members share their stories inspire and encourage each other and share tips and hacks for getting the most out of the Weight Watchers experience.
It is simple and engaging and has experienced high penetration among our mobile member community since its launch and has generated nearly 1 million posts in less than 2.5 months.
In support of our new program launch our winter season advertising campaign kicked off with Oprah telling the world in her words why she joined Weight Watchers and inviting others to join her on her journey.
This direct and emotional appeal resonated strongly with members and non-members alike and grabbed significant media attention.
We augmented Oprah's message with separate ads focused on the new Beyond the Scale program and SmartPoints to begin to build awareness of our new program.
And to drive urgency during the peak winter season we paired this creative with compelling offers including our popular Lose 10 Lbs On Us! promotion.
In addition to having appeared in commercials Oprah has posted updates and anecdotes about her journey on social media including on the Connect feature of the Weight Watchers mobile app.
And she recently hosted a conference call with Weight Watchers members about shared member experiences.
More than 40 000 members participated live and nearly double that listened in via replay.
The response to Oprah's participation in the member community has been overwhelmingly positive.
During 2015 we made significant progress on our technology transformation enabling us to launch our new program globally and laying a foundation for an increasingly tailored experience.
We rebuilt our consumer facing website and mobile platforms on new technologies largely replacing our legacy.com infrastructure with open-source cloud-based technology.
In addition we implemented a new agile approach to product development which will allow us to shorten our innovation cycle.
These changes are enabling us to reduce our cash spend rate on technology ending 2015 at a run rate of around $70 million after having spent approximately $85 million and $115 million in 2015 and 2014 respectively.
While we did have a few technical difficulties with our website and apps around the time of the launch related to the upgrading of our tech infrastructure these issues were resolved by mid-December.
And now I will turn it over to Nick for a review of our financial performance.
Thanks Jim and good afternoon everyone.
As a reminder our 2014 results included an extra week that impacts year-over-year comparability.
While this impact is not carved out of our reported results when I speak to recruitment trends in the fourth quarter of 2015 I am referring to trends on a comparable like-for-like weeks basis.
Let me start by highlighting a few key items in our Q4 financial performance.
Global member recruitment was positive in the fourth quarter driven by the great response to our partnership with Ms.
Winfrey and the December launch of Beyond the Scale.
This dramatically improved the year-over-year End of Period Active Base with Q4 ending down 4.8% versus prior as compared to the 12.7% decline we reported in Q3 2015.
Q4 is our smallest quarter so while the revenue benefits from the recruitment's improvements are not meaningful in terms of our 2015 results they do improve our 2016 starting point.
Specifically where we previously thought we would have a $35 million revenue headwind going into 2016 our Q4 performance reduced this to $20 million.
In addition in Q4 we incurred added expenses in preparation for the Q4 program launch and marketing campaigns.
These items as well as higher than anticipated tax reserves resulted in an adjusted EPS of negative $0.03 in the fourth quarter.
Absent the one-time tax adjustment impact of $0.04 per share and the negative FX impact of $0.02 per share we would've generated a profit in Q4.
For the full year total company revenue declined 16.3% on a constant currency basis to $1.16 billion driven by lower Meetings and Online paid weeks compared to the prior year.
Given the upgrading deleverage pressures indicated by gross margin decline of 480 basis points on an adjusted constant currency basis for the year we focused hard on cost and we achieved our $100 million gross annual cost savings target with expenses coming out across cost of sales marketing and G&amp;A.
G&amp;A spend decreased to $185 million a level not seen since 2010.
On an adjusted basis EPS was $0.67 for the full year.
This excludes the $0.14 per share total impact related to the share option grant to Ms.
Winfrey as well as related transaction cost $0.09 per share in restructuring costs and $0.12 per share in gains associated with our 2015 debt tenders where we prepaid a portion of our B1 term loan at a 9% discount.
Our adjusted EPS includes an approximately $0.19 negative impact from FX versus the prior year.
We ended 2015 with a cash position of $242 million.
This was about $30 million lower than anticipated with approximately half of the shortfall related to a delay in the receipt of an international withholding tax and the bulk of the remainder due to temporary changes in the working capital timing which unwound in the first quarter.
Turning to our capital structure using cash on hand we will repay the $144 million B1 term loan due in April.
As a reminder we also have a $2 billion B2 term loan which is not due until 2020.
Given our high margins and improved cost structure recruitment growth translates into substantial incremental cash generation and reducing leverage remains our capital structure priority.
You will recall that we have no financial leverage covenant on any of our debt.
And now I'd like to provide our outlook for 2016.
We are having a strong start to 2016.
Due to positive recruitment and stable retention we expect full year 2016 revenue to be up in the low single digits.
This revenue guidance incorporates the drag from two headwinds to the business.
First we entered this year with a lower starting active base which will have a negative impact of approximately $20 million in revenue and $0.14 of EPS versus 2015 and which disproportionately affects our first quarter.
Second based on current foreign exchange rates and the strong U.S.
dollar we expect to have a further negative FX revenue impact of about $16 million for 2016 versus 2015.
For 2016 we expect full year adjusted EPS to be in the range of $0.70 to $1.
This EPS guidance includes an approximately $0.02 negative impact from unfavorable year-over-year foreign exchange and as a reminder the investment by Oprah Winfrey and related option grant increased our fully diluted share count for 2016.
This higher share count creates an approximately $0.12 drag on full year EPS.
While our trends in Q1 to date are strong we anticipate reporting an EPS loss in the first quarter in the range of negative $0.20.
Recall that the negative EPS impact of $0.14 from the lower starting active base is primarily in Q1 and in addition Q1 absorbs the brunt of marketing and other winter season expenses.
In the remainder of my comments I will speak to the midpoint of our full-year guidance range and on a constant currency basis.
We ended the year at 2.4 million active members.
Based on strong recruitment growth and steady retention our guidance assumes we grow our active base in 2016 allowing us to enter 2017 with a revenue tailwind for the first time since 2012.
To illustrate if we were to end 2016 with mid single-digits growth in our active base that would translate into a $30 million revenue tailwind and a $0.19 EPS benefit in 2017.
Total global paid weeks are expected to be up in the low single-digits in Q1 and be up in the mid single-digits for the full year 2016.
In North America we anticipate that Q1 revenues will be flat and for the full year revenue is expected to be up in the high single-digits.
In the UK we expect revenue for Q1 2016 to be down in the low double-digits.
We expect recruitment trends to improve over the year and as a result we anticipate revenue for the full year to be down in the low single-digits.
And for Continental Europe we expect Q1 revenue to be down in the low double-digits and down in the low single digits-for the full year 2016.
Now some detail on expenses.
We expect our gross margin to be down approximately 150 basis points in Q1 due to changes in mix and shifts in the promotional calendar.
For the full year we expect gross margin to be up about 100 basis points versus 2015.
We expect Q1 marketing spend will be approximately $90 million and the full year marketing expense will be roughly flat year-over-year as a percent of revenue.
We will continue to keep a tight lid on our overall cost structure so that we benefit from the operating leverage inherent in our business model.
We expect G&amp;A for the year to be flat versus prior on a percent of sales basis.
Below the line for the year we expect interest expense to be approximately $115 million and our tax rate to be about 39%.
We expect CapEx primarily driven by tax spend and capitalized software to be in line with prior-year levels in the $35 million range and G&amp;A in the $55 million range.
Generating cash to reduce leverage is our clear capital structure priority.
In addition uses of cash could also include select tuck-in acquisitions.
In summary the work we have done is now bearing fruits in our business performance.
We will continue to build on our revenue growth trajectory while maintaining cost discipline.
Now I'll turn it back to Jim.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Nick.
We're excited about the progress we have made in transforming Weight Watchers.
We have more to do and many more opportunities ahead of us.
But we believe in 2016 we will deliver on our primary objective of reversing four years of annual decline and returning the company to full year recruitment and revenue growth.
We have leveraged our insight's capabilities to launch the Beyond The Scale program and an associated improved service experience for both our digital and meeting room products.
We have the opportunity to increase the awareness of Beyond the Scale and SmartPoints as currently in the U.S.
three out of five lapsed members and four out of five never members have yet to be made aware that Weight Watchers has a new program.
In addition we have the opportunity to increase the penetration and consistency of our meetings experience enhancements.
Our technology environment is running at lower cost with higher capability and improvements to our agile innovation model reflect our strategy to deliver continuous innovation validated through consumer exposure.
We are continuing our strong partnership with Humana and while not a near-term revenue growth driver at a company level we continue to see longer-term potential in the Health Solutions business.
We are excited about a study published last week by Indiana University which showed that adults with prediabetes who followed Weight Watchers lost significantly more weight and experienced better blood glucose control than those following a self-initiated program using supplemental counseling materials.
As a science-based evidence-proven approach we believe we are well-positioned to serve the corporate and healthcare markets as they continue to develop.
And we're just scratching the surface of the potential engagement opportunities between members and Oprah.
Behind the scenes Oprah is equally as involved as a board member and advisor contributing insights and ideas that are informing our view of future opportunities.
In closing I'd like to thank the entire team at Weight Watchers and especially our leaders coaches and other members of our extraordinary field service provider organization for the progress you have made and the confidence and resolve with which you have made it.
Thanks again for joining us today.
I'll now turn the call to the operator for questions and answers.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Meredith Adler at Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking my question.
I guess I'd like to ask you Nick you're very good at guiding and making sure that we don't' get over optimistic.
If we think about the various drivers for 2016 what area do you think has the most upside to get you to the high end of your guidance? Well let me tell you about the thing I'm most pleased about and thanks for the question Meredith.
It's terrific to see recruitments growing on both meetings and online and frankly now that we're through tech transformation we have an opportunity to continue to innovate and add value through our tech product online throughout the year.
So it's great to see recruitments growing.
But as you know our model has a timing lag inherent in our business model.
So as we return to growth recruitment is a leading indicator but you know what we should think about revenue as a lagging indicator.
Frankly with the impact of the lower starting actives headwind as we entered 2016 it's probably right to think about recruitment growth that we're experiencing somewhere in the range of double the revenue growth that we'll experience this year.
So that's what I'm most pleased about and that's what really sets us up not only to have a strong 2016 as I believe we're guiding to but also to propel us into 2017 with more people in the brand at the end of this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then I have a question for Jim.
When you look at the response you've gotten from consumers first I don't know if you've been sort out there surveying them and what kind of feedback you get from them.
And then I sort of have a question about whether you feel that you've got the response you expected to get from the new program and from Oprah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Meredith hi.
Look I couldn't be happier with the new program but I also would like to talk to the opportunities we have to sustain momentum through the year.
We do have a lot of feedback from consumers both from development which we've shared with you in the past but now importantly when they're experiencing the program in the real world and the satisfaction is very high.
It's high on both the meetings product and the online product.
They're telling us that they're having very strong weight loss.
They are telling us that upon coming into the program they had confidence that their participation in the program is going to get them the results that they want.
They are experiencing a better integration and better digital tool supporting that and as we have said many times in the past just the general positioning of Weight Watchers is not a diet but more of a holistic program with integrated fitness.
They're responding very very well to that.
An opportunity for us at the same time is the awareness of the program has a lot of upside.
We know from our research that when consumers are aware that Weight Watchers has a new program there's approximately two times the likelihood that they will take an action step which might be going to the website or the likelihood of attending a meeting or signing up.
So we know the awareness of the fact that Weight Watchers has a new program is very motivating.
We also know that once they're in the program as I described the satisfaction is high.
And so when we think about and using some U.S.
numbers as I talk to in the script when we think about the fact that we have 60 points of upside and awareness for lapsed members which we know are generally speaking very brand favorable as well as 80% upside and awareness from "never" members that gives us a lot of confidence that we can sustain the momentum.
Last point I'll throw out there and Nick touched on this a teeny bit we have improved the digital tools that are the online product and that support the meeting room product.
And we are innovating in a different way there and so we will be bringing feature enhancements and changes much more periodically to that product than we have in the past.
And that's all a function of having a new technology environment and a new development model.
So I think the response has been very strong.
I would say that our relevance is there.
It's been across both meetings and online and we have more to go.
I'd just add Jim that every operating indicator that I track is moving in the right direction.
So satisfaction retention on the program is strong Jim said folks like SmartPoints the response to the Connect feature as Jim mentioned in his comments and through not only through response to our advertising been good but we're seeing word of mouth being strong among our membership base for the first time in a few years.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
Your next question is from Alex Fuhrman Craig-Hallum.
Great.
Thank you for taking my question and congratulations on really some transformational change here for the better.
Would love to get a sense of the marketing opportunity throughout the balance of the year.
Obviously having Oprah Winfrey on board as a marketing partner I would think creates a lot of opportunities that you might not have had during the 10 months or 11 months non-diet period in prior years.
What are some things that you're looking at for the balance of the year? And what sort of recruitment trends as the year progresses are baked into the guidance for the full year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'd like to take the first part of that Alex.
And as you know I'll steer clear of very specific things that relate to commercial plans.
But I would say in general as we entered this year as we launched the program we had a two-pronged strategy where Oprah was inspiring and inviting and other ads and consumer activation were communicating the strength and the power of the new program.
As I just mentioned one of the critical dimensions of opportunity for us going forward one of the ways to put metrics around that are the awareness levels.
And when people are aware of the fact that we have a program that sparks a lot of activity and so strategically I think you'll see us focus on that this year.
The other thing that's been incredibly powerful and responsive is Oprah's engagement in the community.
If you happen to go on the Connect tool and follow her you'll see a little taste of what I'm describing.
But her natural ability her authenticity as a member sharing the journey has been a very very positive thing.
The response has been strong to that and I think it's a big part as Nick was referring to a minute ago why we think we're going to have a stronger word of mouth.
So without getting into the tactics I think that touches on what the core strategic for us will be from a marketing perspective.
Great.
Thanks Jim.
That's really helpful.
And then looking at the balance sheet I know you mentioned you have the B2 term loan coming up in four years after the B1 redemption coming up in the next few months.
I mean if your debt were to continue trading around $0.70 on the dollar the B2s that is for the foreseeable future what would your options be looking into the balance of the year? Would it be reasonable to think that at some point with all the cash you're going to generate you would consider doing a tender to buy back some of the B2s similar to what you did last year with the B1s? Fundamentally Alex the benefit of returning to a strong recruitment growth and generating revenue and increased profitability is that with the leverage in our operating model now that we have a much better cost structure we're going to generate substantially more cash flow than we did last year.
So that's the basis on which we're comfortable we can use that cash to delever over time here.
That's great.
Thanks Nick.
And then lastly just thinking about your guidance for the year.
It sounds like the business is trending a lot better at least on a revenue basis in the United States than in Europe.
And some of that is surely currency related.
But was there a discernible difference in the immediate lift that you saw from Oprah's partnership in the United States versus elsewhere? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Are you asking about the markets Oprah participated in from a marketing perspective versus the others? Yes that would certainly be part of it or just trying to get a sense of if there were maybe some markets where there was a much bigger initial response maybe because of just a bigger reach on her part in some markets versus others? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the program and the synergy with Oprah participating in the consumer activation was a strong factor in all of the markets that we cited as having improved performance: U.S.; Canada; UK; Australia.
I think it's been particularly effective in the U.S.
and Canada and Australia too.
So I think it's been a factor everywhere but parsing that from the strong consumer response to the program is pretty difficult.
Yes the only thing I'd add is I'd say while we're particularly pleased with the North America performance and obviously given our cost base is fantastic to see meetings growing so well and especially as you know Alex we get $44.95 a month from everybody who shows up for meetings versus $19.95 for online so great economics of a strong meetings business.
So particularly pleased with North America but I'd say while performance isn't as strong in our continental Europe markets they are still seeing a substantial trend change.
So the trajectory is improving nicely there too.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Thank you and good luck this year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Alex.
Our next question is from R.J.
Hottovy at Morningstar.
Inc.
(Research)</span></strong> Thanks guys.
And thanks for taking my question.
First question I had was just on recruitment trends in general and with that obviously headed in the right direction maybe what's the next step to bringing people up to some of the higher-priced offerings or some of the more value-added offerings that are out there? I'm assuming most of the recruitment that's coming in is kind of at that opening price point on both the in-person and online meetings.
And what's the next trigger point for you to kind of maybe make more aggressive marketing towards some of those higher price points? Just kind of how you think about that over the next couple years? Yes I think R.J.
thanks for the question.
Obviously we have a premier Personal Coaching product and a Total Access product.
I think it's really been terrific to see how we brought the meeting coaches into the online space and so bringing that human touch into everything we do at Weight Watchers is helping us.
And of course going forward strategically we'll continue to look at more value-added opportunities.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes if I could just add.
I know you mentioned in the question and Nick has mentioned that we have had a strengthening meetings business and he did indicate that that is also a strong point for us financially.
We've been confident in the changes that we've made to the meeting experience making it a better experience in confidence putting our recommendation flag more aggressively towards that for consumers encouraging them to try the flagship product which is a higher price point but is an experience that we think is right for a lot of people and generates great success.
And so the second part of it just as Nick said we've been experimenting for a year now with strategies that allow us to bring the expertise that is associated with the meeting room to other moments and other dimensions of our product.
So Coaching was a way to bring that expertise Click to Chat was a way to bring that expertise.
We continue to experiment with things that go down the same path whether it results in an improved experience for an existing product at an existing price point or presents the opportunity for us to enhance revenues by providing a more value-added product.
But we're still experimenting with those platforms but that strategy is still very core to us.
Inc.
(Research)</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Second question I had and this is I guess for you Jim.
You mentioned at the end of your prepared remarks about the Humana deal and potentially it being a springboard with the pre-diabetes study that was just released.
At the Analyst Day at the end of the 2013 you talked about the Health Solutions business potentially being a $300 million to $500 million-type opportunity.
And I just wanted to see if perhaps the timetable has changed and been pushed back a bit.
But what is the longer opportunity in that business now as you've had a chance to kind of refine the offering and make it more accommodating to the insurance partners and other players in the space.
Just kind of what the longer-term opportunity that you see in that business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll let Nick make any comments on the timetable that he might like.
But you know from prior calls you probably remember that we had along with many other players in the health care ecosystem anticipated the regulatory environment shifting very quickly.
We knew that our product with the kind of economic advantage and the scalability and reach that our product could play a very significant role in helping with obesity and obviously now with pre-diabetes as well.
You know that read was a tough read.
And things didn't move anywhere near as quickly as we had thought.
And we had made some investments in that arena that we are now leveraging in our B2B business.
But we remain focused on the fact that when the conditions become more favorable we are a cost effective scalable very efficacious way to address these challenges that are of incredible proportion and significance to not just the U.S.
healthcare environment but globally.
That having been said and reflecting on the strength of the recent study with respect to how encouraging our service can be in diabetes prevention.
We would need some things to go well in the marketplace that we don't fully control before these opportunities would become something that would really affect our near-term revenue projections.
So we continue to progress.
We are optimizing how we work in the vertical with our great Humana partnership.
We're not projecting anything very near term to be significant from a revenue perspective in this regard.
But strategically I still believe this is going to be happen.
But we don't control all the inputs.
And we will be ready.
Yes.
I think that's absolutely right.
I feel the same way about the business strategically.
Great long-term potential.
The business as a whole is still north of $60 million today.
But importantly as the consumer businesses returning to growth both the at-work or regional side of our business and the more larger corporate accounts our strategic business both are growing right now.
So we certainly see the long run potential.
Inc.
(Research)</span></strong> Thanks.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
And so the conference is also now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.