Your next question comes from the line of Alex Heidbreder Millennium.
Can you give us the debt level at the April 28 update at TGGT? TGGT debt level.
Three and change.
Paul is looking it up right now.
They don't have it yet.
Do you have another question? If they don't have it by the second question it's over with.
The April acreage deal were there any reserves in production associated with that? Very little.
We had drilled some wells.
It's right in the middle of our area.
It's a royalty interest with some surface and we had plans to drill it over the next 5 years and maybe 10 million a day total so about half of that is ours.
And the 3 200 is net to you? No no.
It was actually 3 490 or something gross acres it was a 38% mineral interest and we're going to be splitting that with BG.
So net to you is just 1 750.
Yes.
Actually net to us it's 1 750 times 30%.
And then the purchase price on that was the 112.5? The what? The purchase price on that.
Oh yes.
All I have is a 112.5 225 gross which we've closed and BG probably will buy their half next week or the week after.
It seems like an awfully high price.
Well I guess that's debatable isn't it? We've been working on it for 2 years.
Let's put it this way we'd buy more.
Do you have any for sale? No I don't unfortunately.
I wish I did.
Sounds like you wouldn't sell it.
Can you walk through the lower end of the guidance again? That would be Paul.
Sure.
Well first of all the TGGT debt balance is $337 million.
The lowering of the guidance as we've mentioned it's a couple of factors going on.
It's scheduling sections at a time versus 2 well pads.
We've got to wait for every single well in that section to be completed and drilled.
So it's added a handful of days to our first quarter completions.
We see as Hal mentioned the slightly lower IP in the DeSoto area with the shallow decline.
And we actually think ultimately we're going to be better than where we were with the higher IPs as we're restricting the chokes.
The other thing is that we're shifting some of our capital down to that area where we have the 30 million a day type of results.
Those are deeper wells and take a little bit longer to drill.
Kind of cleaning up our scheduling.
That's what we're doing.
And it may vary.
As we find changes we'll just give everybody the data.
Okay.
And then last question is you talked -- how much more sensitive are all those wells to drill? And then what's the -- I know you cited the 2 really awesome wells what's the average for the area? Those wells cost about $2 million more $2.5 million more than what we're spending in our Holly area.
So somewhere in the $11 million to $12 million range.
The average in the area is 30 million a day.
Yes.
That is the average? Yes because it's 2 wells.
Do you guys have -- I mean what are you guys hoping for on EURs? It's still too early to tell.
We're hoping for more.
And just last question where are you -- has the EUR on the core DeSoto changed at all? Or is that still -- I guess what's your midpoint on the EURs for DeSoto? We haven't updated our proved reserves at this point.
I mean we'll be doing that through the year as we get more data.
So...
I think we're comfortable with what we had at year end.
I think what we're going to find by the end of this year is we're going to have 4 or 5 different curves in DeSoto actually depending on what area.
The northwest with some faults is going to be lower than the core.
And with the manufacturing we're getting a lot more data points so we're going to have a lot more comfort.
But I don't think there's any major change there.
It might be slightly higher.
And then as we go south we don't have much down there but we think the EURs could be down slightly for a month core area there too.
Doug your revolver is $817 million drawn pro forma.
What's your comfort level there? And then I guess part 2 is is TGGT a long-term asset or would you look at monetizing that to help reduce some of that revolver? Good question.
We've looked again.
It's such a valuable asset right now because it's allowing us to put this production on in a very timely manner which helps our IRRs.
I think to answer the TGGT question with our forecast ramp up in production that value should go up over the next 3 or 4 years.
We look at what we can do.
We've had every investment banker is coming in and showing us what we could do with MLP.
We're aware of that.
So there's a lot of optionality there but I think right now keeping it and BG loves it and we also have -- we'd like to do it a little like up in the Marcellus.
And so a lot of those people -- we want to keep control so we don't want to sell it to somebody that we -- when there's a storm the gas doesn't get hooked up in 24 hours.
I mean right now I think controlling it is key.
We look at all things as you know.
Now to how much what is our comfort zone on the debt? How much is it? Pro forma I mean it's 8-something there.
$800 million.
The thing -- keep in mind that the debt availability here I can expect by year end with the way we're proving up reserves.
Most of these wells that we're drilling are contingent reserves especially down in Shelby.
So I have a feeling that that revolver unless gas goes way down could approach $2 billion by the end of the year.
So I'm comfortable at $800 million.
I'm comfortable at $1 billion.
And depending on what we bought if it had cash flow I'd be comfortable going north of that.
But we will always because of guys like you we will always protect the box.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think a lot of good questions and we had a great quarter.
People are working hard.
I think best thing I can say is "No comment and stay tuned." Thank you for joining us.
Thank you very much.
This is Doug Miller Chairman of EXCO and welcome everybody to our first quarter earnings release and operational update.
With me today that are going to be speaking are Steve Smith Hal Hickey and Paul Rudnicki.
But I also have all the operational people the engineers the accountants and most importantly our lawyer's in here.
So they'll be supervising me at all expense.
Before we get started I'm going to have Ramsey read our disclaimer.
So Doug? Thanks Doug.
I would like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentation point in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding our future financial operating performance structure and results business strategies market prices and future commodity price risk management activities plans and forecasts and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Please refer to Pages 20 and 21 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements.
In addition please refer to our website for the earnings release which contains additional information regarding forward-looking statements and the preparation of our financial disclosures including reconciliations and other statements regarding non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Thank you.
I think we announced our earnings in our operational update last night.
We are going to be going over the slides here this morning and then we'll open it up to questions.
Before we get started I want everybody to know that I have had a lot of meetings and spankings this last week but the most important one was that the lawyers have told me that I can have no comment on anything to do with the go-private.
The best they would let me say is "No comment.
Stay tuned." So that's what I'm sticking with for the whole meeting.
A couple of cleanups one of my other spankings this week was we found out that we scheduled our meeting accidentally at the same time as Pioneer did.
And so we had a discussion with them.
It was pure accidental.
They were the first one to put it in.
Our financial guys were told to do it as soon as we can.
We accidentally did it.
So I told them that I would announce that we did it and it was our fault and that if anybody would like to hear about an oil deal they can shut us down and listen to Scott over there at Pioneer.
We apologize to them.
Slide 3 we did what we said we were going to do.
The only unfortunate thing is natural gas.
Like Steve said it's hard to put lipstick on this pig but everybody -- everybody in here is doing what they signed up to do.
I think 6 to 8 months ago I told everybody with our plans we were targeting exiting last year at 400 million a day.
Mike and Harold did that.
And each quarter we had been targeting increasing that by 50 million a day our exit rates.
He promised me 450 million by the end of the first quarter.
He did it.
And now his target for the end of the second quarter is 500 million third quarter 550 million and exit the year at 600 million.
Now they're doing a great job.
Now one of our challenges is forecasting our quarterly production.
And of course that's Paul's problem.
We have as we do this drilling we'll get into it in a minute.
We have shut-ins while we're doing offset fracs.
That's been a challenge to schedule and we had a few tornadoes over in DeSoto Parish last week.
Thank God nobody got hurt but we had some electricity problems.
I think we woke up one morning last week Hal will get into it we had 450 million gross shut-in because of electricity.
All 22 rigs that were operating were abandoned because we had a tornado within a mile.
Again nobody was hurt.
Some damage it's been mostly repaired almost all gas is back on.
So it's hard to schedule a quarter-to-quarter with weather.
But we do the best we can and basically Paul's group has done a pretty good job with that.
Now get into -- we have these spectacular assets and the people to go along with them.
And we are a gas company.
We're 95% gas.
We're going to maintain that.
We think we have some expertise and some assets that are second to none.
So what we've done is within a year and a half our production levels with $3 billion of debt now exceed what they were before we started our disposition.
We chose back in '08 to sell conventional assets to retire debt which we did put us down to 250 million a day.
We started at 400 million.
We were successful in the asset sales.
We are now -- all of our thrust is in 2 shale plays.
The main grower right now is the Haynesville where we have 22 rigs running and we'll get into that in a minute.
We've had some unbelievable success there.
Again I'll tell you that the Marcellus is something where we've had some mixed results some real good results and it's going to be slower.
But we're starting to ramp up there and Hal will get into that in a minute also.
Midstream which is also part of the scheduling issue has done a spectacular job keeping up.
But with the weather they have delays too.
And so again we might miss by a week or so but they have been right on time right on target as we completed these wells.
So we have tested in to our own pipeline system 95% of the time.
Right now it's 5 feet high and rising over there the water so moving equipment around and getting pipelines laid is a challenge but they're meeting the challenge.
The results in our 2 core areas have been spectacular.
DeSoto is our top area.
We understand it the best.
Results continue to be spectacular.
I think we're now into manufacturing.
We'll get into that.
We're actually drilling some of these sections.
We're drilling 8 wells per section and having very good results and that's been part of the timing challenge.
We had initially scheduled that we were going to do it on 2-well pads.
But now we're doing it on 8-well pads.
And that first well we tried to do them all at once frac them all at once and turn them on all at once.
And so the first couple of wells as you can imagine are now slightly behind what our initial schedule was and Paul will get into that in a minute.
Shelby area it's a new area.
As we announced last year we made an acquisition in there jointly with BG.
We have 6 rigs running down there.
We've had some recent very good results.
Some of the acreage we think has spectacular value.
Some of the acreage we don't think has much value.
We're proving that to ourselves.
But we have had recently a couple of 30 million a day.
Haynesville wells deeper more expensive.
But hanging in there with ultrahigh pressures highest we've ever seen.
And we built our first Bossier well in there that came in over 25 million a day.
So I would say early results we have we're very happy with them.
We've acquired some additional Marcellus acreage with a cheap deal.
We did have a well in there that has made 10 million so we're focused in 2 areas.
Right now again the problem and issues are going to be -- we're delineating where we're going to be.
And one of the main things that we're doing out there is trying to schedule the pipeline and gathering system.
Again I've been saying this for 2 years that's going to be the hold-up for us.
But we're going to do it we're going to take our time and do it right.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Steve and go over some of our results and corporate highlights.
Steve? Thanks Doug.
Look on the Slide 5.
It's just a simple chart of sort of our key metrics.
All are in the plus category except cash settlements of derivatives so we had really a strong quarter in every respect.
As Doug said our production is 490 million a day up 55% from last year end -- I mean first quarter last year and 17% from the fourth quarter.
I just made a comparison here of the fourth quarter and the first quarter to sort of give you an idea of sort of the growth that we're experiencing.
As far as cash settlements are concerned that's fairly simple.
Some of the richer swaps had rolled over and had been replaced by more -- $5-plus kind of swaps at this point.
I'll show you in just a second on the next chart where we are on that.
Operating costs we will get into in a second also had been continuing to go down.
And we're down 16% from last quarter and 35% year-over-year.
So good strong quarter where I think we're guiding toward EBITDA of around $655 million for '11 so -- and Paul will get into that.
On Slide 6 this is just a chart that will show sort of the per Mcfe metrics.
And you can see we're making headway in operating costs.
Production taxes we're doing well there primarily because Louisiana has given us a tax break there.
Gathering and transportation is hanging in.
G&amp;A is going down per Mcf.
So we're very pleased with where we are.
As far as the cash settlements you can see the difference between Q4 and Q1.
But we are at -- in the first quarter we had an overall swap price of $5.90 compared to like $7-something for the fourth quarter of '10.
So that'll show you a little bit of the roll off.
But we're hedged for the remainder of '11 and all of '12 at more than $5 per Mcfe.
So we're pleased with where we are on our hedging.
Over on Slide 7 this is the chart that Doug was alluding to showing where we were in the first quarter of '09 showing the impact of the sales the divestitures joint ventures et cetera.
And we're right back way above even where -- I mean somewhat above where we started in '09 and we'll be way above by the end of the year.
The dark line running through all this is our total net debt including our $750 million of bonds.
We were at $1.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.
That'll go slightly over the balance of the year but our debt-to-production ratio will improve during that period of time.
So hopefully we're going to end up with a very strong growth in production this year and it's well on our way to doing that.
Now I'm going to turn it over to Paul and let him get into a few more of the details.
Paul? Thanks Steve.
I'll pick up on Slide 9 to discuss our liquidity and financial position.
Steve mentioned at the end of the quarter we ended up with $159 million of cash $589 million drawn on our bank facility and $750 million of the senior notes for a total debt balance of $1.3 billion and net debt of just under $1.2 billion.
At the end of the quarter April 1 we re-determined our borrowing base to $1.5 billion as highlighted here.
We also reduced the interest rate under the credit facility by 50 basis points and now our spread to LIBOR is 1.5% to 2.5% based on our borrowing usage.
We also extended the maturity of the facility by 2 years and again that's reflected on the 3/31 column.
Looking at where we are on March -- on April 28 the main reason for the increase in debt is the acquisition that we made that was referenced in the press release.
We made a $225 million acquisition of mineral interest right in the middle of our development area in the Haynesville in the core DeSoto position we have.
And we're showing you the pro forma column as we expect BG to participate for their half $112 million $113 million here at the end of -- in the next couple of weeks.
Net-net the end of -- on a pro forma basis we end up with $1.3 billion of net debt and just under $1 billion of liquidity.
TGGT our midstream affiliate with BG in East Texas closed on a $500 million credit facility during the quarter and we received $125 million distribution to repay us for the majority of the capital contributions we've made since that entity was formed.
That facility with the cash flow that TGGT is expected to have will more than finance its growth going forward.
Going on to Slide 10 as Steve mentioned our derivatives position.
You can see we're about 50% hedged for the rest of this year at prices of $5.62 to $5.70 per Mcfe on average.
Looking into 2012 we're a little bit over 30% hedged at $5.56 and we have a tiny little position out into 2013.
We continue to monitor the markets and add positions.
If you notice this schedule is different than what we had at the end of the quarter.
We've added hedges since the quarter for the rest of 2011.
And going into 2012 prices of $4.70 to $4.85 for the rest of 2011 and $5.10 to $5.15 for 2012.
Going to Slide 11.
Looking at our capital forecast for the year we spent $246 million in the first quarter $198 million of it was related to the drilling.
We spent $25 million in leasing and $4 million -- $5 million doing seismic and our water pipelines.
Our corporate capital predominantly capitalizes interest as we capitalize a portion of our unproved balance.
We continue to expect the full year to be at $976 million in line with our original budget.
In the first quarter we finished up the final bit of the East Texas/North Louisiana carry from BG and we have about $111 million remaining on the Marcellus carry.
We expect to fully utilize that either late this year probably more likely first quarter of 2012.
Looking at Slide 12 for a comparison of our first quarter guidance to our actuals as we kind of highlight in the bullets there's really no major line items to discuss.
Production obviously exceeded the high end of our guidance.
Virtually all the other operating expenses were either at the low end or below the low end of our guidance.
TGGT as I mentioned TGGT growth coincides with the production growth in East Texas.
It was above our expectations and therefore we had a little bit higher equity income and TGGT's EBITDA our share of their EBITDA was again higher than our high end.
Looking at Slide 13 our guidance for the rest of this year we continue to project total production growth in excess of 60% for this year.
And as Doug mentioned this new guidance reflects our current completion schedule and takes into account the issues we experienced here at the end of the first quarter beginning of the second quarter.
But we're well on track and as we highlighted in our press release we're over 480 million a day today and expect to continue that growth through the quarter.
And the only change that we really made to the guidance was on the production.
The rest of the operating expenses were held flat from where they were before.
And as Steve mentioned we continue to see about $656 million of EBITDA based on a $4.50 price for Q3 and $4.75 price for Q4.
With that I'll hand it over to Hal to discuss the operations.
Thanks Paul.
Slide 15 it's where our focused operations are.
We've had a great quarter operationally.
We had a strong environmental health and safety performance and excellent production growth.
As Steve noted we ended fourth quarter of 2010 with just less than 400 million a day of production and we averaged 350 million.
In the first quarter of '11 we averaged 408 million.
But currently we're at 483 million a day.
We remain pretty focused on natural gas as Doug said we're about 97% natural gas of our current production.
This growth is very much on target to meet our forecast of 60% or greater year-on-year growth.
We're making great strides with the joint venture in our Marcellus area our Pennsylvania and West Virginia that joint venture is coming up on the year of activity now.
I'm going to talk a little bit about what their focus is.
The Permian is a small area for us but there have been very consistent results.
It's liquids-rich and our oil is up year-on-year about 40%.
So seeing good growth there on the oil side and we're seeing some excellent rates of return on our projects.
We'll probably drill some 72 wells this year and expect to get 60%-plus rates of return for that drilling program.
Now East Texas/North Louisiana remains our biggest area and our most active area in terms of production drilling and development activity and capital.
A big milestone for our operations guys is they actually surpassed 1 billion cubic feet a day of operated production most recently.
That's a huge event for these guys and for our company and going from literally...
Zero in December of '08.
Yes.
And growing into the way it's grown it's really a phenomenal story.
So yes you'll see in East Texas/North Louisiana in the first quarter net production of about 355 million and current production of about 430 million.
Doug referenced earlier that because of a combination of factors weather happens some obviously weather is always going on but we've had some weather impacts like we had last week.
But by and large we have some ongoing shutdowns because of our fracture stimulation activity.
We'll go in and we'll shut in all step wells and we averaged about 25 million a day of net shut-in to our portfolio during the first quarter because of that offset activity primarily.
Now on Slide 16 it starts to get into a little bit of detail on well activity.
The first column on this page shows our operated rig count.
We have 26 rigs operating at the end of the first quarter and that's where we happen to be today as well.
22 in the Haynesville/Bossier.
I'll talk about how that's broken down in a minute.
In addition to the 22 operated rigs that we have drilling there currently we have 4 rigs that are drilling that are operated by others.
Marcellus we have 2 rigs in play now and Permian 2.
Like I said earlier we spud 71 wells in the first quarter completed 65.
We continue to have some outstanding performance relative to industry in that we keep a very low inventory of wells awaiting completion.
I think last time I looked it was 18 or 20 wells that were waiting on completion.
So our guys do a good job with our frac leads and our pipeline and lining up everything so that we get our wells completed timely and get them to sale.
We continue to forecast that we'll spud nearly 300 operated wells this year and you can see the breakdown with most of that activity being in the Haynesville/Bossier area.
And currently in Haynesville/Bossier we have 182 operated horizontal wells pull into sale.
We've spud about 230.
We have 107 non-operated Haynesville/Bossier wells pull into sale.
We're going to maintain this 22-rig program throughout the year.
And in both the Haynesville/Bossier area and the Marcellus area we have under long-term contract the fracture stimulation crews and frankly all the other services that we need to maintain our projected program under either long-term commitments or in a position where we won't have any issues waiting on service companies to get our work done.
We're ramping up our Marcellus activity.
We have 2 rigs running there today like I said but by year end we'll be up to 11.
And I'll go over to Slide 17 and get down into some of the more details on the Haynesville/Bossier acreage and activity.
Net to EXCO we have about 76 000 net Haynesville acres.
Of course through the JV you can double that.
We've got a significant held by production position particularly in Holly and Waskom.
And in the Shelby area as far as HBP goes with our current drilling program all of the acreage that's under term will be held by production by year end '11.
We're optimizing our drilling and completion methods to reduce costs in the Holly area.
Our current AFEs are around $9.3 million in the Shelby area which is our second focus area down in Nacogdoches San Augustine and Shelby Counties.
Our average costs are more in the $11.3 million range and both of those areas we're targeting taking out another $0.5 million or so of AFE cost over this year.
Doug talked about how we've initiated our manufacturing program where we're drilling typically 8 wells per section.
Our average IP remains strong 18-plus million a day in the first quarter and we're seeing that same sort of IP rate in the second quarter.
Now this is under a managed drawdown program with a restricted choke.
And some of our initial data analysis is telling us that even though some of these IPs are a couple of million a day or so below our former averages we're seeing the curves tend to flatten out.
So we think our EURs may be just as strong as they have been on the past performance and the current performance.
Shelby Doug talked about how we've had some outstanding results there as we continue to delineate and understand that acreage and Hal made a reference a minute ago.
The 2 Haynesville wells with strong strong IPs over 30 million a day pressure's in the 9 300 to 10 000-plus range.
And more exciting than just the IPs are the fact that the 30-day average of these things are holding up very very well.
One of them that started about 31 has averaged about 25 million a day over the 30-day period.
That is strong strong performance and we're really excited about that.
And then also up in one of our central Shelby area locations we drilled our first Bossier well and it came in at over 25 million a day significantly higher than what we forecast in our initial tight plan so we're excited about the opportunity there as well.
In Holly which is our core area in DeSoto we've got about 23 000 acres there and we'll drill down 115 wells and we'll operate with 16 rigs.
In Shelby we've got about 24 000 net acres to EXCO.
We'll drill about 48-or-so wells there in 2011 we'll operate with 6 rigs.
And it's turning out to be just everything we hoped for and more.
This is a great program.
Marcellus is on Page 18.
We're starting to zero in on a couple of key focus areas.
The Central Development Area over in west central Pennsylvania we have about 55 000 net acres.
We'll drill about 18 wells there in 2011.
The Northeast Development Area which we acquired at the end of last year and BG elected to participate with us on that program in February we have about 35 000 net acres.
We'll drill about 38 wells there and that's where we've seen some of our outstanding results where we had the 10-plus-million a day well.
In the quarter we completed 5 wells.
The IPs range from 2.1 to 10.6 million a day from varying lateral lengths between 2 250 and 4 500 feet.
Now one of those on the lower end was an appraisal well.
We're continuing to drill some appraisal wells outside of these development areas.
And we'll probably drill 7 or 8 appraisal wells this year and most of those will actually be in central Pennsylvania.
Today I'll talk about our rig counts go over to Slide 19.
Midstream remains a very key part of our strategy in that it allows us to get timely well hookups and market access.
Our Midstream throughput continues to set records of over 1.4 billion a day and roughly 80% of that gas is equity gas gas that we operate and control.
Our marketing guys are doing an excellent job.
All of our gas has moved to market very promptly.
We've used all of our firm transportation and we're using some interruptible markets very effectively as well.
TGGT as you know is our East Texas/North Louisiana midstream JV with BG Group.
Holly we've built a core of that program or that system or that infrastructure out and now we're focusing on well hookups and some minor expansions.
The bulk of our capital issue will be focused there on our Shelby area where we're laying out headers and facilities and continuing to formulate our takeaway plans.
We'll probably spend to the JV $200 million to $225 million in TGGT this year.
Over in Appalachia the Northeast Development Area where we're going to drill the 48 wells or so is supported through a third-party infrastructure.
The company that we acquired these assets from actually held onto its midstream system it had built out there and we're working very well with them and continue to deploy our gas facility very promptly.
In the Central Development Area we actually have a few projects and we'll spend some $40 million to $50 million in our Appalachian midstream this year.
With that I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Miller.
Okay thanks.
One of the things I wanted to mention because I think all operators are battling this we talked about cost and how we're focused on getting it down.
But one other thing I think everybody does have is fuel costs.
Most of our service providers they have pass-through rights on diesel fuel.
And diesel fuel costs have gone up so we're getting quite a few those.
So Mike and Harold are battling that.
It isn't a huge number but it seems like it has gone up quite a bit and we're seeing the effect of that.
So tightened costs in the face of diesel fuel is still a challenge.
Talk a little bit about natural gas.
I think the world especially the world of New York and analysts still believe gas is going down.
We have mixed on that.
We have a plan if the gas does go down.
And we're ready we're hedged and we have plenty of liquidity to take advantage of that.
We have recently -- I've recently some -- the short position continues to be higher than even the storage position.
And so obviously there's a lot of people rooting for it to go down.
I've noticed that -- one of the things I've looked at over the last 20 years is storage especially storage over the previous year.
But I noticed about 6 months ago because storage was actually starting to come down versus we started comparing it to the 5-year average.
And here in the last week I've seen some of these genius analysts up there they start comparing it to the 10-year average.
So we're significantly above the 10-year average and I'm confident by the third quarter when we get into the shoulder months we'll start comparing it to the 25-year average and I bet we're above that too.
But again our rates of return on the gas side are way lower than the oil guys.
I think on our oil properties which is very small we're seeing 60% to 100% rates of return and I'm positive if you'll turn over to Scott you're going to hear 60% to 100% rates of return in the Sprayberry.
Ours are 20% to 30%.
We're very happy with it.
And like my good friend Lenard Tessler told me a lot of the little is still a lot.
With that I'm going to open it up to questions.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Thinking about your Shelby County and Shelby Trough development you made a comment Doug that some areas have no value and you're testing those.
What do you mean by that? Kind of have you prescribed some of the acreage that you wouldn't drill? Yes.
When we bought Common we had data points.
There was quite a bit of acreage going from north to south and we had some minimal data points.
And so we thought some of it was going to be scarce as far as thickness and faulting.
And we are looking at other operators drilling in that area and because of the results we just think at today's price they're uneconomic.
They're still making wells but they're maybe 10 12 million a day wells.
The economics don't warn us developing that.
So we're staying out of that area mostly way up to the north.
And again that has more to do with faulting and thickness is that not right Marcia? So we placed little or no value on it when we did it.
We continue to believe that's right.
Now if gas were to go up we might change our tune a little bit.
With $4 gas there's not enough there to even call it a little rate of return.
Down in Central Park which we call jumble [ph] we're having a lot of success.
That's where we thought there was some thickness in the Bossier.
We are working on that and so we're going to really try to make sure all that is held.
We may even release some leases up if they're expiring up in the northern part.
And one of the areas that kind of surprised us which was way deeper was down in the southern part at the highlander.
We have drilled some wells down there.
And even though we knew it was going to be more expensive that's where we found those 30-million-a-day wells.
So that was something that is a pleasant surprise.
But I think the step that we thought was marginal from the data points we had we still believe is.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then staying in East Texas Cotton Valley horizontal.
Taylor's [ph] saying potential if you had potential had some higher yields kind of get 30 or 40 barrels per million.
Are you testing anything on the Cotton Valley or no? We're not right now.
We actually had that on our budget for last year.
And it's all held by production so we just had chosen not to.
We still have that opportunity out there but I'd say right now we're 98% focused on the Haynesville area and making sure we're doing that right making sure we know what we're doing.
I mean it is changing.
But it's still there and we have seen some results.
El Paso's done some BP's done some.
We're monitoring them.
We have some potential there but we think this has higher potential.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then there are companies out there trying to buy or farm-in kind of providing overrides with thresholds on the private equity side.
Would you monetize any of the Cotton Valley? Have you even considered that? You don't necessarily need capital but I'm just curious.
We haven't considered it yet.
We're in 50/50.
We look at all possibilities and opportunities.
Right now I think a lot of the operations guys that work with Cotton Valley are also helping on the Haynesville.
So it's pretty easy for us to operate.
Margin is not as good because of operating cost.
We look at any and all opportunities and we have been approached.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on your G&amp;A guidance a kind of steady uptick to the year.
I'm hoping that it's not just the lawyers in the room.
Are you adding people on the cash G&amp;A side and continuing to grow your headcount? We are -- Hal didn't tell you but I mean keep in mind we probably hired 150 people last year.
We're growing.
I notice we could hire in 5 a week.
We're down to one or 2.
But most of that is now coming out of Pennsylvania as we're getting ready to ramp up.
But while Mike and Harold were going from 10 rigs -- 2 rigs to 10 rigs to 22 the ramp-up was in their group and I think they're basically full right now aren't you? Now if we decide to go to 27 rigs next year which is on the table with BG we'd be hiring some more people.
But we're not -- it's mostly a lawyer problem.
You're exactly right.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And then on Pennsylvania just saw Chevron buy the other piece of Chief.
Can you talk about the differences between what you all decided to buy where you've had some pretty good rates and what was left and why you wouldn't just buy the other piece as well? Well it was a huge deal that had 7 different areas.
And we did it jointly with BG and there was clearly 2 areas that we liked the best that we thought would fit with what we were doing that were early stage.
And the whole thing -- we did not look at the whole thing because we weren't interested in the whole thing.
I think that part that you just heard about today fits with our Atlas deal like a glove.
And I think Chief still has a little bit more but the area where we are we're very happy with.
So I just wanted to get an update on where the special committee stands as far as the view of the offer and the strategic alternatives? That was my first question.
Second question is is there kind of an update on where the net asset value for the company is in the quarter? Well the first question I guess you weren't on when the conference call started and -- but I did say that any questions to do with the deal I could not comment on.
But the best I could do is "No comment.
Stay tuned." And I'm sticking with that one.
We have not put out a net asset value.
It's changing and moving and I'd say it's around $20.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Sarah and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources Inc.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Doug Miller.
Mr.
Miller you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah.
I'm Doug Miller and I'll be the leader of the conference call today.
With me today I have Steve Smith; and Hal Hickey; and Mike Chambers; Marcia Simpson; Doug Ramsey; Paul Rudnicki; Mark Wilson; and last and least our lawyer Lanny Boeing who will keep the necklace around me.
But I kind of expect this is going to be kind of a boring conference call because we -- on July 13 we kind of went over almost all this stuff for everybody which was kind of a good real good CliffsNotes version of what was going on in our data room over the last 6 or 8 months.
So all we're going to be doing is bringing everybody up to date.
And before I get started I'm going to have Ramsey do our disclosure statement.
All right.
Thanks Doug.
I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding our future financial operating performance structure and results business strategies market prices and future commodity price risk management activities plans and forecasts and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Please refer to Pages 23 to 24 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements.
In addition please refer to our website for the earnings release which contains additional information regarding our forward-looking statements and the preparation of our financial disclosures including reconciliations and other statements regarding non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Okay.
Thanks.
With this I hope everybody has the slides because we're going to quickly go over the slides then we'll open it up for questions.
We've had expected accurate results mostly in our Haynesville area.
Our operating people have done a great job.
Our partnership with BG continues to be running smooth.
We have 22 rigs running out there.
Hal and Mike will get into that in a little while.
But our volumes were really in development mode up in DeSoto.
And we're really working hard down in Texas slightly deeper but I think we've had some pretty good results down there.
I think they'll get into that.
But volumes up.
Production significant.
Midstream volumes up significantly.
We continue to add on to our Midstream assets in East Texas and North Louisiana.
It is growing again.
It's a joint venture with BG growing with leaps and bounds.
We're starting to put in some infrastructure up early in the Marcellus and Hal will get into that a little later.
I think in the middle of the page there we recently had a couple of delineation wells down in the Shelby area a couple of them over 30 million a day and Hal might talk about a couple of them that are -- I got some news this morning that looked pretty good also.
We're still buying in both the Haynesville and the Marcellus area.
John's in here.
I think he's probably got 20 deals none of them big but a lot of little deals in the Haynesville and the Marcellus that we're looking at.
We have had one recent what we call a real good well that IP-ed at 10 million but Hal will get into -- we're seeing some stuff that's a little unique for shale plays.
Hal will get into that here in a minute.
And I think the key to this whole thing has been the people.
And I told you I've had the best people I've ever had here the last 2 to 3 years and it's really showing down in the Haynesville.
And we're marching up in the Marcellus.
And I know our people are cooperating with the mistakes that we made early on in the Haynesville they're sharing them with the guys up in the Marcellus.
And so we're starting to ramp that up.
Again we'll be a little bit slower there for several reasons.
Number one is the bulk of our acreage is held by production.
Number two we have 4 or 5 different areas that we're focusing on.
And most importantly again is service companies moving around the areas in infrastructure.
So that'll be a slower ramp up like I've been saying for the last 2 years.
But it continues and it looks like we're starting to get some encouraging results there.
With that I'm going to turn over to Steve.
Steve? Okay.
Quickly Slide #5 is what I'll be focusing on to start with.
It was a good quarter really an excellent quarter for us.
Every -- all metrics are up pretty significantly over the first quarter and dramatically over the second quarter of 2010.
Our production continues to increase.
We were up 23% quarter over the first quarter and 71% versus last year.
So it's -- everything is going as we had planned.
I think that we expect to continue that kind of growth.
We're guiding towards an overall average of 529 million I believe it is for the year and probably an exit rate in excess of 600 million a day.
So guiding to $668 million of EBITDA.
So we're on our way.
We're -- our cost structure we're seeing some really good improvements in the cost per Mcf of operating costs and that's very encouraging.
On Slide 6 is I think a real good presentation of our cash operating margins of our quarter from all the way from the second quarter last year till now and also the projection for the year.
We're over -- when you compare the second quarter '10 to the second quarter of '11 we're up 25% on our cash operating margin and we're 8% up between quarters.
So we're rocking along just exactly like we want to be.
We've still got some derivatives out there.
We'll talk about those a little more in detail in a minute but they are certainly still contributing to the overall cash operating margin.
Page 7 is a slide that we show each quarter.
Just to show you where we were at the end of '08 that was in production-wise what has happened in terms of divestitures over the period and then where we are now which we've replaced all of the production that we sold and then some.
We're at about $1.5 billion of debt now and we're projecting I think somewhere around $1.6 billion net of cash.
And you can see what the projection is on our production.
So this is just a good snapshot of where we are and where we're headed toward the end of the year and for the year.
I'm going to turn it over to Paul and get in a little bit more detail on some of these financial metrics.
Thanks Steve.
I'll pick up on Slide 9 with our liquidity and financial position.
At the end of the quarter we had $214 million of cash.
We had $851 million drawn under our line of credit which again has a $1.5 billion borrowing base.
The rate on that debt is LIBOR plus one and a -- 1.5% to 2.5% senior notes that we issued last September $750 million a 7.5%.
Net debt of the $214 million of cash was $1.4 billion -- just under $1.4 billion which led us with -- which we left the quarter with $853 million of liquidity.
You can see one month later we're still virtually flat.
Cash is down a little bit as we cycle through.
And as Steve said we should -- we'll be expecting to borrow a little bit more money during the rest of this year to fund our capital program.
Slide 10 no new changes to our derivative position since we reported this at the end -- in July as Doug mentioned.
We continue to be about 55% to 60% hedged for the remainder of this year and 25% to 36% hedged for next year.
We'll continue to monitor the markets and if we have some strength we will continue to look to layering some hedges on.
You can see what our targets are on the bottom of the slide there as well.
Slide 11 the capital forecast.
We did increase the forecast by about $20 million from our prior guidance.
The main result there is from the increased pace that we're working with in the Haynesville.
Our cycle times are coming in much faster and we're going to be able to get some more well spud by the end of this year.
It's not going to contribute to production for the year as these wells will all be coming online in 2012.
On Slide 12 looking at our actual performance against our guidance.
And again this is our updated guidance that we presented back on July 13 so there's not a lot of variance from there.
We had a pretty good look at the quarter and had some pretty good confidence around what the numbers we're going to come in on.
Again we came in at 500 million a day and -- which included the impact of having approximately 23 million a day curtailed as a result of our pipeline incident.
So without that we would have exceeded even our prior guidance.
And the other thing to point out is just again to highlight on the equity income which is primarily from our 50% interest in the pipeline company.
There was an impairment noncash impairment charge of $6 million net to EXCO which affected our equity income.
Slide 13 looking at our guidance for the rest of this year.
Again no major changes from before.
We have tightened up our range for the rest of this year made some minor adjustments to LOE and operating costs and obviously updated our CapEx to reflect the current spending level and made some other adjustments to the G&amp;A and noncash interest expense.
With that I will hand it over to Hal to go over the operations.
Thanks Paul.
Go over to Slide 15 if you will.
We got some great things happening operationally across our portfolio.
We've moved into manufacturing mode in certain areas in the DeSoto area of our Haynesville operation.
The appraisal program is going really well up in Appalachia.
Some outstanding works being done in reducing some of our capital costs on our drill wells and our unit cost as Steve said are down dramatically.
So we're really happy at what we've been able to do on the operational front.
We completed 71 gross 40.6 net wells during the quarter.
We're continuing to drill with 27 operated rigs today.
We're seeing 99%-type drilling success rates.
We've got about 5 operated by other rigs all in the Haynesville that are also drilling in our portfolio.
Down in the Shelby area of East Texas in our Highlander region there we're just seeing some really strong strong results.
We note on here that we've had average rates of greater than 28 million a day on IP basis.
We've got a couple of wells that are coming on now that Doug referenced earlier.
They're over 10 000 psi.
We're seeing 29 million a day flow rates.
And this is an area we're going to continue to concentrate some of our delineation in moving toward development there because it's just really an outstanding portion of the play.
Up in the Marcellus area in northeast PA our appraisal results have been particularly encouraging of late.
We're going to get into a little bit of detail on that in a couple of slides back.
We're currently completing 6 wells on development acreage in northeast Pennsylvania and those are going just as we would have anticipated.
This is mostly on the chief acreage that we acquired late last year.
Slide 16 getting in to some of the details in North Louisiana.
You can see that our current operated shale production is actually now over 1.2 Bcf a day and last week we were at 391 million a day net production.
We're actually about 410 million today so we're marching along.
We have some 350 to 360 wells that are flowing to sales now.
The bulk of those are of course operated.
We're seeing some continuous improvement in not just the cost of our drilling activity but also the time from spud to rig release is marching right down.
So we're really happy on that front.
And then another thing that's a very significant statistic for us.
We only have 6 wells that are waiting on completion.
So between our efforts of our people the management of our logistics the responsiveness and capabilities of our frac crews we've brought that really down.
So we're in good shape there and we're continuing to have appropriate water management across this portfolio.
17 gets into some of the details on the capital cost reduction in North Louisiana on our drilling wells and you can see we're targeting $8.8 million to $8.9 million a day in the second half.
We're doing similar reductions in East Texas.
But I will say in East Texas you're starting at $11 million to $12 million depending on where you are in that portion of the play.
So they'll come down probably another $500 000 or $600 000 there as well.
We're looking at things on the drilling and completion front.
We were talking about our cost reductions.
Our guys have done some really good job working with our contractors on our bits.
We're very much efficient when it comes to our pad and road locations.
Development and construction that's getting better.
We're focused on reducing our nonproductive time.
And the completions front like I said we're working very well on that.
Slide 18 starts to go -- move over into the Appalachia portion and really the focus up there of course is in our Marcellus shale.
We've got 3 rigs operating up there today 2 are in the development area 1's doing appraisal.
And a fourth rig is literally moving in as we speak and it's going to be working on development as well on our northeast area predominantly in Lycoming County.
We're likely to have one more rig either late this year or early next year.
But that's the plan as that stands.
We won't have anything between now and then.
Drilling days are continuing to improve up there.
The 6 wells in the Northeast Development Area that we have completed we've seen some in excess of 10 million a day.
On average it's probably more in the 6 million a day realm.
One thing though that I'd point out it's on the bottom of this page that we're really trying to get our hands around and we're understanding it better and better is that in certain areas our production rates improved dramatically from the initial IP that we see in the first 7 days or so of production.
About 60 days in we're seeing 15% and more improvement in our production rates.
So we're working on that.
We're working on spacing.
We're working on our completion methodologies and we're very excited about the potential that we're identifying up there.
So the focus for '11 is noted on Slide 19: implement development in the northeast area where we'll have like I said 3 rigs drilling there shortly.
We've got the 2 today; very big focus on improving our technical understanding of the Marcellus shale play.
We're making great progress there.
There's a lot of technical sharing across our asset boundaries and I'm really proud that our people are engaged in; big focus is on identifying the best rock in areas outside of the development area as well.
So we're looking for acquisition opportunities wherever we find that best rock; and then we're going to continue to optimize the portfolio and hopefully move into gas manufacturing very very soon.
Infrastructure development in the Marcellus is something that we've got a team of probably 20 guys working on every day.
We've got some pipe being laid in the ground.
We're looking at third party opportunities.
In our development area we're actually working with a third party who has an established midstream there when we bought the assets.
Slide 20 starts to get into some TGGT discussions.
[indiscernible] TGGT is our East Texas/North Louisiana equity JV that we have with BG Group.
In Q2 we set a record exceeding 1.4 Bcf a day.
The other day we were almost at 1.6 Bcf.
We're marching one of the biggest growth areas we're seeing in Shelby which I talked about where we're seeing the good well results.
We're actually pushing 250 million a day down there today.
So that's growing rapidly.
We've talked about the incident that occurred and that -- back in May where we had a problem at one of our treating facilities over in Red River Parish.
That thing remained shut down but we're quickly moving in some lease at least amine treating facility.
So we're going to be back having full treating capabilities here shortly in the third quarter.
21 gets into some detail on the timing of what we're going to do about bringing the treating facilities back online.
We're going to start the undamaged units later this quarter.
We're actually leasing temporary units.
They'll be on later this quarter.
So like I said we're going to have full treating capacity late in the third quarter.
Some of those leased units that we're bringing on will be released by late in the fourth quarter early next year and we'll be back with our normal treating capability by late December early January.
The bottom part of this slide shows the impacts to our operating results.
TGGT entity itself is going to have about $13 million of EBITDA impact.
And then in addition to that $13 million of EBITDA impact from revenue and operating expense there's going to be $12 million noncash impairment charge.
So net to EXCO we're going to have an equity income hit of about $12.5 million in the quarter.
The last slide I'm going to talk about is on Page 22.
Paul noted that our E&amp;P budget forecast now is $997 million.
That's slightly up as we're drilling wells faster with our contracted rigs.
The performance remained stellar in the Haynesville.
We've got existing infrastructure market access so that's allowing us to get our gas to market.
Marcellus like we said is very much progressing.
The results and technical understanding in the play are rapidly improving.
We've got to work on the infrastructure.
And I will note that down in the Permian we were making some 1 600 or so barrels of oil a day.
We're still drilling with the 2 rigs and we're getting some very good results.
Last thing I'll point out on this page and you heard me say this before that in Appalachia our drilling and completion dollars are artificially low as there's still some -- oh as of June 30 roughly $90 million to $100 million of BG carry remaining.
So in the JV entity in Appalachia we're actually spending about $280 million on drilling and completion EXCO is net of that this year is only about $35 million.
With that I'll turn the presentation back over to Mr.
Miller Okay.
I had a couple of calls last night after our earnings and a couple of questions coming up is what do we think about gas price.
And gas price is soft.
What are we going to do about our capital program? We begin our capital budgeting program here next week.
We go to our board sometime in November.
So we remain flexible.
And our original forecast was $4.50 for this year and $5 for next year it's down below that.
We do have hedges in place.
I think we'll look at all.
I think initially for next year we were talking about roughly $1 billion capital program.
That is something that we will have debate with including our partner BG and including our board and we remain flexible on that.
We continue to look up in Appalachia.
But gas price it still surprises me slightly that gas is down here.
By the way any of you guys in New York if you want to come to a steam room come to Dallas it's going to be 110 [degrees] today.
So I think we're starting to see a lot of utilities approach a lot of the producers including us as far as tying up long-term supply on some of these plants that they're finishing up construction and in construction on shutting down coal plants and natural gas.
So I kind of expect some demand to be picking up over the next 12 to 18 months from the utilities.
And if gas prices stay cheap it looks like there's 3 or 4 export facilities coming in.
I'd say over the next 2 or 3 years if gas stays where it is we're going to be a significant exporter.
And we're looking at -- into opportunities there.
And I think our partner BG will be one of the significant players in that if it happens.
But I expect it will with the price -- with the difference.
When you can sell it at $10 in China and Japan and you can buy it of $4 in the U.S.
it don't cost that much to move it over there there's a lot of potential profit in the middle.
And I think there's also -- I've seen Aubrey chat.
This natural gas to liquids is something that is working.
Shell I think is doing that and so it wouldn't surprise me to see some fairly significant projects pop up where there's a lot of gas whether it be in Louisiana or whether it be in Pennsylvania converting natural gas to liquids because the economics work.
Other than that I think the most positive thing that's happened in the last 2 weeks watching the turmoil that we've been going through here unwinding our go private and the turmoil in Washington is that we have a full Congress going on vacation for a month.
So I kind of expect the next month to be a good month.
With that I'm going to turn it over to questions and we'll stick with you as long as you need us.
Sarah? [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of David Heikkinen from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> First question can you walk through how you'd model the -- a Marcellus-type curve.
I'm not exactly sure how to model increasing well production over the first 60 days.
And kind of what you're thinking of how that will actually result in if you are...
Hey David.
I mean here's the problem.
We just started seeing the results on some of those wells.
It's way early.
I think initially as you know we were using the same type curve across the play and we adjusted it depending on the lateral length and the IP.
But I would say right now with some of the recent results Marcia would spank me if I start talking about decline curves on this.
I think our people are actually going up tomorrow and that's going to be a topic.
All I can tell you is that it's going to change.
When you have increasing production for the first 60 days it for sure doesn't fitting in of our existing type curves.
So the answer is I can't tell you because we don't know.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Doug on the Shelby-type curves then.
Can you walk through kind of how you're thinking about those wells versus your core wells where you have more production history? Yes.
And I think the best thing I can say there is DeSoto Parish where we have a couple of hundred wells in 2 to 3 years of history our type curves there have evolved.
And we're in really -- I mean they really have evolved to where we now have a 4-type type curve a 4-piece type curve and we're very confident when we drill a well up there.
And I would say with the limited data we have there in Shelby I'd say we have estimates.
But for us to start putting out type curves there we need more data points.
And I think -- we're starting very conservative down there.
But I would say Marcia would again spank me if I start talking too much about -- because it's going to evolve.
And I'd say about a year from now we're going to have a real good idea and I'm sure it's going to be a 3 or 4-part type curve.
You just don't have enough production data.
When these wells come in at 26 million to 29 million with 10 000 pounds casing pressure versus 18 million and 7 000 pounds they're going to be different and they talk to you.
And in 6 months a year and 2 years out before you start seeing those decline curves change much and I just don't want to sit here and tell you what I think it's going to be until we know.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> So as I look at your TGGT system yes it's obviously big growth in Shelby from second quarter to today.
How many wells did you tie into the system? Probably 15-ish in Shelby.
And the TGGT that's the part of our challenge down there because it's slightly better than we thought it was going to be down there.
And so we're aggressively building pipe and we're tying into third parties.
And we have a debate right now with BG should we build over to the Holly system from there should we go up to Carthage.
And each one of those is a couple hundred million dollar program.
So we don't have a meeting on that until this afternoon.
But we're working on that.
And by the way that TGGT pipeline it's about 1.5 billion today but I kind of expect that thing to be pushing 2 Bcf a day by the end of the year.
Hope I'm not supposed to say that but Marcia don't mind me saying that one.
All right.
Remember Doug to -- down in Shelby we laid a 36-inch trunk line.
Right and we're tying in to everything else.
But we do have some pretty good production coming on there.
We do have some restricted.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
So following up on the question on inclining production in the Marcellus and you may have mentioned this I apologize.
But which counties are those specific to? Is it just the appraisal areas that you're seeing? And can you maybe put into context anything you're doing on West Virginia? We're seeing it across the play.
We're seeing some increases and -- but I will say we're only drilling in a very few counties at this point.
We're not active in West Virginia at this time.
All of our acreage there is HBP and we won't be drilling there at all this year.
It's mostly central.
And we're not going to name counties because Jacobi is trying to buy stuff there.
Got it okay.
And then what are you doing if anything on lateral lengths in the Marcellus? What do you expect in -- to be your kind of going-forward lateral length there or do you expect that to vary across your areas? It'll vary across the areas but I will offer that we're not necessarily seeing linearity between lateral length and production rates.
So it's all a function of where the best rock is and getting your seismic down and understanding everything from your faulting to your land position.
So the lateral lengths will vary and we're seeing very good results from some short laterals and we're seeing some unexpected results from some long laterals as well so.
And I'd say when we model here 3 500 to 4 000 is kind of our modeled lateral length.
I mean we don't expect any 9 000 footers and we hope we don't have any 2 000 footers.
Got it okay.
And lastly when you're talking about this year's budget earlier in the year you talked about $4 in Mmbtu as that threshold price below which we should expect that you would more meaningfully drop rigs in the Haynesville.
Is that still the threshold price for next year relative to the budget that you put out a month ago? Yes yes.
i.e.
if gas prices are where they are today at $4.16 $4.25 and that holds through next year we should expect no different to budget than what the...
No no no I wouldn't say that.
I would say that we were kind of hoping for $5 next year.
We were $4.50 for this year but we thought we would really have a significant slowdown at current costs and current prices if they got down to $4.
And I would say that there's still cost tugs.
And I think it's only smart -- I don't want to -- we kind of have budgeted $1 billion for next year.
And -- but our EBITDA if gas is below $5 it's going to be below our forecast.
So we're going to take a hard look and if rates return aren't -- don't exceed 20% in the gas area or better we're not afraid to slow down and we will.
I mean I think it's going to be a good debate coming up with both BG and our Board.
Our board wanted to slow down last year but we already had a contract with BG.
So I think it's going to be a good debate and we know exactly -- it only takes 7 rigs in the Haynesville to maintain our production.
So anywhere from 7 to 22 should add growth and so we have plenty of locations.
We have plenty of flexibility and I don't think it'll go to $7.
But we're looking it all including an increase.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang from Bank of America.
Doug just to follow up on your last comment.
So the board had been considering slowing down in 2011 but the BG contract i.e.
the carry was sort of what gave you the incentive to get going this year? Well I think when we -- no it didn't give us any incentive.
Basically when we sold the deal to them we agreed to a program which was kind of a 3-year estimate and a 1-year firm.
And we agreed to that and our board agreed to it and that's the 22-rig program that we have underway.
And what our guys have been able to do is drill a little bit faster.
We're actually drilling a few more wells than we had in our forecast because drilling days I think we initially forecast 45 and we're down to 40 or something like that.
Is that right Mike? 42.
42? Yes.
From those PUDs' spud.
Yes.
So in 3 or 4 days per rig it adds more wells.
Excuse me.
I would say we do have a good partnership.
It's 50-50.
And we'll sit down with them.
And it's math.
Prices are down.
And we can slow down and look at acquisitions or we can slow down and just take the cash flow and pay down debt.
We're not afraid of doing that.
Were there any conversation coming from their side that maybe they were willing to forgo the 22-rig program for this year? No no no.
I mean one thing about BG is they like going faster.
They're great partners but they have their pedal down around the world and we're part of that.
So it will be a spirited debate.
And I will add that we're aligned in the sense that if it doesn't meet the hurdle rates and our hurdle rates are very similar nobody wants to keep drilling if we don't meet the hurdle rates.
We will build the program around that.
Okay.
In terms of the Haynesville you commented on some terrific results.
What is the -- if you were to draw circles around the Haynesville what is the comp in terms of IP rate that you think is the minimum in terms of where you want to drill? You mentioned I think Doug that you had some wells that were 10 million a day.
Could you elaborate on those areas or to kind of...
Well I'm looking at the map right now.
And as you may or may not remember that was a 6-million-acre play 3 years ago and you didn't know anybody that went into play.
And it has evolved.
We have maps by year.
And I'd say a little over a year ago it was the 600 000-acre economic play.
And it has -- I'm looking at our new map right now and it is DeSoto area.
And it goes a little bit to the southwest and a little bit to the northeast of us is what I call the A area.
And that is -- IP rates in that area range anywhere from 10 million to 20 million a day.
Ours have been averaging 18 million a day.
Most importantly is the rock and the pressures that we're looking at and gas in place.
And then down in the Shelby Trough between 2 big faults and they don't match up.
I mean it's deeper higher pressures cost more.
But there's a small area down there and I guarantee it's not 600 000 acres today.
And we have acreage in other areas where the IPs are 5 million to 10 million over in Harrison County and some of the other areas where we tested a year or 2 ago and we quit drilling just because the rate of return does not hit our hurdle rate.
But we're HBP over there.
If we're not HBP we're dropping the acreage.
So when you guys look at deals for a grant of small acreage packages are you seeing a lot of acreage for sale in these fringy areas of people just trying to recover some of the...
Oh yes.
I mean if you want acreage in the Harrison County we can line you up.
We get you 100 000 acreage over there for $500 an acre whenever you want you some.
Then -- and we'll sell ours.
Right right.
Okay.
And lastly can you just -- Hal I think you talked about the Permian results really quickly.
Can you just comment on what you're doing there and what kind of well results you're getting? Yes.
At this point we're still pursuing mostly Canyon Sand drilling.
We've got 2 rigs that are operating out there.
The costs are in the $700 000 to $800 000 range and we're getting 50% 60% rates return and our production today is about 50-50 oil and gas.
They're small oil wells and they're very economic.
We drilled up 72 wells out there this year.
How many wells at inventory do you have? Oh in inventory we only got 3 years of inventory or so left.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver from Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.</strong> On the acreage acquisitions are there-- would -- I mean could you give some sort of feel on the size of those packages? I mean are they significant compared to your...
No no no.
I'd say in the last 3 months we bought 900 acres one deal down in Shelby.
Most of the stuff that we're buying up in the DeSoto area is 50 acres 100 acres 200 acres.
It is detail right now.
We have land people in -- looking at minerals looking at surface looking at working interest looking at small private operators that would like to sell.
So no it's little tiny stuff.
But 80 acres is the location up there.
900 acres down by where Mike's filling these wells could be 6 8 locations.
So up in the Marcellus it's slightly different.
In our areas that -- where we're were doing this work because it started out so big and because there was a lot of leasing going on that tends to be larger in acreage size.
But we're having success adding 2 000 acres at a time 5 000.
I think John's looking at a 40 000-acre deal right now.
It's slightly larger up there just because the size is bigger.
It's down to detail now.
And your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up.
As you think about BG and their activity levels it's been one of the keys for them to making their production guidance and their 2015 plan is keeping their U.S.
business going at this level.
Can you really slow down given where their plans are? Because it's been the enabler for them to make guidance.
How did you know David? I would say that whenever one of their 27 countries go down then it seems like our accelerator gets pushed.
So if Australia and Egypt would come back on I think they'd be a little more flexible.
But we have had the ability to accelerate and help them and we will continue to look at doing that.
I mean they are a great partner and our models and their models are right aligned.
And I think right now our model for next year is right on top of each other.
I think it's just driven by gas price.
And again the bottom line is they're driven by a simple math just like we are.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
Your returns are acceptable so I wouldn't expect it to slow in this type of environment with the hedges particularly.
I would agree.
And I have a feeling they may be hedged also.
And with no further questions in queue I turn the call back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
I didn't cuss once.
This was pretty easy.
So Lanny I got a A or a B or at least I passed.
Again thanks everybody for being on.
I know this was a little repetitive from our July 13.
But everybody around here is working hard and we're continuing to try to grow this thing but it's a challenge with pricing where it is.
But there's a lot of deals out there available.
We will continue to look.
We may start looking at other areas.
There seems to be other areas shale plays that are interesting.
Our group has looked at 5 or 6 deals nothing that we're looking at.
But I sure appreciate everybody.
And with that I'll finish it up.
Thanks for coming.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Doug Miller you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate everybody signing in for the conference call.
And before we get started Ramsey is going to go over our disclosure statement.
All right.
Thanks Doug.
I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and related activities and other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change any of our future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to pages 22 and 23 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as the cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliation regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Thank you.
With me in here today I have 11 people plus myself and we'll be here to answer any and all questions.
Harold Jameson Marcia Simpson Steve Smith Paul Rudnicki Mark Wilson Hal Hicky who will be speaking Rudnicki and Steve will be speaking also.
Doug Ramsey of course Mike Chambers John Jacoby part of our A&amp;D group will guide into that and then last and least our 2 IRs Lenny [ph] and Justin Clarke.
Let me kind of give a little brief overview.
I feel like I owe everybody an apology because I heard last night as we missed we had probably our best quarter in the history of the company.
And operationally we did everything plus some that we thought and in here we'll talk about that a little bit.
What we did miss on is estimating bringing back on our amine plant.
And the reason for that is we have us and BG who's our partner working to safety and engineering and just making sure we have back up and double back up and we missed that.
We kind of forecast that will be coming out on October where we would pick up some of that production that we have shut in.
We have approximately 200 million a day gross which would all go through the pipeline and 44 million a day been shut in because of that plant.
We actually have more shut in both in Appalachia and in East Texas not Louisiana maybe up to 80 million a day total but that's just normal operational.
But if I were begging an apology on that it's our fault my fault for misjudging but we'll get into that.
The amine plant is every -- it's all hands on deck.
Looks like probably the beginning of the year we'll have it back on.
But I will note that we did have 400 million a day on the new Arcadia enterprise system that turned on yesterday.
And we're flowing 400 million a day down that line.
So that opens up a lot of extra capacity because our marketing guys were going crazy.
Couple of other things have been going on.
We had our bank meeting this quarter.
We did request increasing our line from actually the base amount from $1.5 billion to $2 billion and our bottom base from $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion that should be -- we're very confident of that happening.
That should be approved by the end of this week early next week we'll make an announcement if and when that gets -- when that happens.
Other than that let's kind of talk about what happened.
Your operating guys had a spectacular quarter.
Our volumes are up almost 70% our midstream volumes are up 30%.
We were moving 1.6 billion a day through our East Texas North Louisiana midstream.
Again we have another 200 million a day that will be coming on hopefully right at the end of the year.
Our guys have done a spectacular job in both the North Louisiana and the East Texas is coming in slightly better than we thought.
We have a little program going on a joint venture where we're doing a significant test on both the Bossier and the Haynesville it's under way.
We probably -- what do we have? 4 rigs on that 1 section? Excuse me 5 rigs on the 1 section.
So we're actually doing a spacing test on Bossier and Haynesville at the same time in a joint venture with another operator.
So that could be quite exciting that could come on early next year also.
We've had some pretty good success up in the Marcellus.
I think we hit 100 million a day yesterday.
So pipelines are being built right away.
It's being launched and we are actively looking at seeing if we can improve our position up in certain areas.
Both areas -- again and I think I've told everybody we're in discussions with BG and we have a board meeting coming up on our capital program.
And with gas prices where they are I kind of expect that we will be reducing our rig count.
I can't tell you exactly what it is because our board meeting is scheduled for November 17.
But under $4 our rigs return start going below 20%.
So we will -- we're scrubbing that right now.
Again we'll announce that sometime after the 17th if the board will approve that.
Again everything has -- we had a spectacular quarter from an operational standpoint and I'll take the hit for that misforecast on construction and engineering.
But we're all involved in it.
It is underway it's all hands on deck on the ground.
And we just want to make sure that we have backup and backup to the backup before we turn it on.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Steve.
If you would just flip over to Slide 5 and we will go through the numbers a little bit in detail and then we'll get into the operational areas.
As Doug said this was a strong quarter for us except for that one problem that we got on amine plant.
Our production averaged 540 million a day that's about -- well obviously it's 69% over last year at this time.
It's about 8% over Q2 -- I mean yes Q2.
And in spite of a decrease in gas price about 8% all of our numbers our EBITDA cash flow et cetera as compared to Q2 '11 were pretty either slightly more or flat to the Q2 '11 numbers.
So we're pleased with it.
We're very pleased operationally with what we're doing.
I'll show you on the next slide.
Direct operating costs continue to trend down pretty rapidly a 44% decrease between this year's op cost per Mcfe.
And last year's G&amp;A continues to trend down but also EBITDA is way up year-over-year obviously as is cash flow over 50% increase on cash flow.
So in general we're very pleased with where we are.
On Page 6 it's a kind of an interesting chart.
We tried to keep this updated at all times and it's really a cash operating margin chart.
The first shaded area is the operating margin before any hedging impact is considered.
And you can see there that in spite of the gas prices we're still hanging in at a decent margin of over $3 around $3.17 for the third quarter which is 76% of the realized gas price per Mcfe.
And then when you roll in the derivatives even though obviously we don't have as many on the books as we did we're still -- we're hanging in that as well.
Again G&amp;A you can see is kind of trending downward with a little kick in the third quarter due to some bonuses that were paid.
But overall margins are strong even in this environment and we're very pleased to where we are on our cost control both operating capital et cetera and that's a strong area of focus for us.
Page 7 is the chart that we have each quarter just to kind of show you were we've been from a debt and production standpoint and where we are now and where we're headed for the fourth quarter.
Our debt was back in Q1 '09 was about $2.8 billion it's now or will be we expect at the end of the year around $1.6 billion net production.
We've gained back everything that we sold in the '09 '10 time frame and should exit in the 5.75 range maybe more if we can get the plan on a little earlier than we're currently forecasting.
Our leverage metrics look great.
The balance sheet is in good shape.
So we're poised to continue the kind of activities that we've had in the past.
So I'm going to turn it over to Paul and let him get into a little more detail on our liquidity et cetera.
Thanks Steve.
I'll pick up on Slide 9.
Looking at our summary liquidity and our current derivative position.
As you can see our cash at the end of the quarter was $174 million of which $170 million was related to the escrow account that we hold for our joint venture.
And just to remind everybody we pre-fund a quarter's worth of capital in operating expenses related to our Haynesville shale development and that's why we carry that large cash balance.
Bank debt was $972.5 million drawn under $1.5 billion revolver.
The senior notes outstanding continued at $750 million.
So total debt was $1.7 billion.
Net of the cash it was $1.5 billion leaving us with total liquidity of $692 million.
As Doug already mentioned we're in the process of finalizing the borrowing base redetermination and we'll get that out as soon as we get that.
You can look at our derivatives for the rest of this year.
And going into next year we're about 56% hedged for the remainder of this year at an equivalent price of $5.52 in Mcf.
And looking into 2012 we're just under 40% at an equivalent price of $5.49.
Looking at the guidance on Slide 10 for the third quarter versus our actuals as we've discussed we initially anticipated the shut-ins or the curtailments related to the amine facility being down to account for 2/3 of the quarter.
And the actualities we've discussed it was the entire quarter which led to a higher shut-in volume of 44 million versus our initial estimates of 27 million.
All differentials and gas differentials remained strong.
Our gas differentials are a little weaker this quarter as we use some interruptible transportation to move our gas.
Operating expenses as we've discussed coming down dramatically on a per Mcf basis and on a low-end of our guidance for the quarter gathering expenses on the low end production taxes below the low end.
DD&amp;A was a little uptick from where we expected mainly resulting from the lower gas prices used for SEC purposes in determining the reserved base for calculating the depletion rate.
All other items basically in line as we discussed.
And then on our capital side we're a little bit over on the high end mainly just due to the timing of activities during the quarter.
EBITDA of $164 million and the primary driver for the difference again is the lower production from the 3 facilities.
On Slide 11 we're looking into the fourth quarter.
Basically all of our guidance remains unchanged from the prior quarter.
Other than the production we've lowered our guidance from 30 million to 60 million a day expecting on average of around 45 million a day shut in.
Our midpoint was 610 million a day.
As you can see we're at 565 million a day for the quarter.
And as I mentioned all other line items in the guidance remained unchanged from the prior guidance that we have put out.
Looking at our EBITDA forecast for the fourth quarter we're coming in at $167 million versus our prior forecast of $201 million.
$24 million of that is due to the decrease in price.
Our prior guidance is assumed for $4.75 an Mcf for the fourth quarter and we're now currently using $3.75 for the NYMEX.
That was $24 million of the decrease and the $10 million decrease is related to the lower production.
With that I'll turn it over to Hal.
Thank you Paul.
Slide 13 I'll give you some color on the excellent operational results we had during the third quarter of '11.
Haynesville in both of our areas continues to perform very well.
In DeSoto we've had very steady performance as we've continued to realize IP rates in the 19 million a day range.
In East Texas the performance is very exciting as we continue to see IP rates in the 28 million a day rates from the Haynesville wells and 26 million 27 million a day from the Bossier wells.
We have a record production volumes of 540 million a day we've exceeded 1.2 Bcf a day of gross operating production East Texas/North Louisiana when you add OBO in with that.
We're over 1.7 Bcf a day.
All the wells we drilled during the quarter and completed came in successfully as we forecast so 100% drilling success rate from our 27 operated rigs.
And you can see that of those 27 rigs 4 in Appalachia only 1 in the Permian 22 in East Texas/North Louisiana.
Of those 22 in East Texas/North Louisiana we have 15 in our Holly area and 7 down in Shelby.
And I'll note that we've also got about 8 outside the operating wells drilling in the East Texas/North Louisiana region for this week.
Hence working interest there is about 15%.
Marcellus program will really get some traction in the Northeast area particularly in Lycoming County.
We've had some really good results there.
We started our development program we're drilling multiple wells off of pads and completing them simultaneously and we'll get into some of the details on those results in a minute.
Paul referenced a minute ago that our activities have driven some of our capital up.
You'll note our completed wells 79 in the third quarter that's versus 71 in the second quarter in East Texas/North Louisiana because we've been drilling so efficiently and so quickly.
We're actually going to end up drilling some 8 or 10 more wells this year than we originally had in our budget.
So that will drive some of our CapEx up which is a good lead into Slide 14 where we're going to forecast slightly over $1 billion of spending this year.
We're up about $17 million from what we had originally forecasted that's a combination of drilling more wells.
I think we're going to drill about 3 more wells in the quarter than we forecast.
Then also we really increased our activity around $2.
So what we've done is we've taken advantage of some of the curtailments that's existed from the midstream activity and in turn done more on the operating upstream side to go ahead and just have a business there.
On the drilling and completion the one thing I'll note is Appalachia looks a little bit low because we continue to have a significant input there of BG Carry and we still have nearly $80 million of Carry remaining as of the end of Q3 for us to use in conjunction with BG as we implement our drilling and completion program in Appalachia.
Slide 15 is more detail on East Texas/North Louisiana.
I've talked about our volume there on a gross basis.
Net production totaled some for 419 million a day as of a couple of weeks ago.
We currently have 264 operated wells and 144 wells that are operated by others.
Haynesville horizontals are actually flowing to sales.
And we're seeing some good improvement in our drilling and optimization of our frac designs.
I'll remind you that we have 2 focus areas the DeSoto or Holly area up in the Northern DeSoto Parish and then our Shelby area down in East Texas in Nacogdoches San Augustine and Shelby counties.
I'll remind you that in Shelby the drilling is a little bit tougher.
It's high pressure high temperature a little deeper a little longer laterals so some of our costs are there and I'll talk about that in a minute.
But one thing that's happened in Shelby that really encouraged about is the fact that the wells have really really high pressures.
They're coming on in over 10 000 pounds so really good results there as we start to move toward the development program.
Slide 16 we can see how we've improved some of our cycle times and completions as we've driven down some of our cost.
Now we'll say this cost isnt quite as low as what we've forecast.
We've had some increased labor cost from some of our drilling contractors.
We had to pay a bit more for jail and diesel in some of our operating activities.
But we're still targeting on bringing that down a bit more as we improve our cycle time and when we manage our business there.
In Holly one of the big effort is continue to modify the profit mix and clusters spacing in order to optimize our completions.
And in Shelby Doug referenced it it's a very very important point that we have a very significant test ongoing in Shelby where we're drilling across 2 sections and it's us and another working interest partner that we're going to drill both Haynesville and Bossier well in a section for doing that simultaneously.
We're going to bring those wells on.
We'll complete them all together so we could have some 200-plus million a day and probably even more than that gross flow into sales in middle of the first quarter of next year.
So that will be a very very exciting activity for us to monitor and manage.
In Marcellus like I said we're having some really good results up there that's noted on Slide 17.
We have a strong acreage position.
We're currently producing about 104 million a day on a gross basis out of the Marcellus.
It's about 25 head-to-head [ph] build up from yesterday's numbers.
We have 54 operated and 4 outside-operated horizontal wells flowing to sales.
Now our Northeast areas where we're really focusing and that's where our development program is that's where 3 of our 4 drilling rigs are operating.
Across our central areas where we're continuing some appraisal and delineation work.
And across both of these areas we're seeing some very interesting results.
I noted this last quarter we're still continuing to evaluate this.
But in certain areas our production rates have improved between when we first bring the wells on and 3 4 5 6 months down the road.
And we're also seeing some very very interesting flattening of our production curves as these wells come on.
So very interesting in what's happening up there we're very excited about the opportunity and we're going to continue to drill in the Northeast area with at least 3 of the rigs.
The results you can see on Slide 18.
In Northeast area we dropped 6 wells on line.
They had average IPs of 6.4 million a day somewhere over 8 million somewhere around 5 million.
Average lateral link is about 3 400 feet.
These are all in Lycoming County.
And we're continuing to evaluate our tubing program there and evaluate what's the best way to bring these wells online.
In the central area our wells were completed in Armstrong and Clarion Clarion counties in the second quarter.
And you can see there there are some very interesting results as well averaged about 5 million a day and some of those were up over 6 million.
So we're seeing some areas there.
We're going to do some further investigation and we'll move into development.
Slide 19.
The peak in our non-shale assets.
This covers the Permian area where we've got about 22 million a day which is our oiliest area as well about 45% of that 22 Mcfe a day is oily.
Our Appalachia region where we have about 17 million a day net our interest of shallow production.
And in East Texas/North Louisiana primarily from the Cotton Valley we have about 82 million a day.
So you can see we have 120 million a day which is about like I said 22% of our net production coming from these more conventional assets.
Permian very good cash margin over $10 per Mcfe as a result of the oily content out there.
But across all of these regions we're very focused on cost management and flattening our declines recompletion and work over program seem to be very successful across these areas.
These assets also do a lot for us and give us an operational footprint in our shale areas.
And very importantly it allows us to hold a lot of our acreage and provide cash flow.
Last couple of slides I'm going to address talk about TGGT our equity midstream company that we own 50-50 with BG.
We're over 1.6 Bcf a day of input and set a record in Q3 when we averaged over 1.5 Bcf a day.
Our primary focus there is in the Holly area is on restoring and increasing treating capacity.
In the Shelby area it's on continuing to build out our infrastructure as we move towards development in that region and also bringing on some additional treating capacity.
And we're also looking at our tight-way ability down there for third parties.
Last slide on 21.
I will highlight that after the incident occurred in the second quarter we actually shut down all of our similar amine treating stock [ph] portfolio.
We did bring on the amine treating system at Holly 3.
Most recently it's working very fine.
It's in excellent operation at this point.
We're installing temporary amine at Holly 6 and those will be on like Doug said early in '12.
And we're going to restart the treating train in Holly 6 also early in '12.
And Holly 6 you recall is where we had our incident.
The restart was delayed for a couple of reasons.
First and foremost we wanted to bring in our experts and third-party experts to really assess what happened why it happened and what was damaged.
And in turn we've decided to make some improvements particularly to our control systems our release systems and ensure that our operators have the best training we can possibly give them.
And I'm confident that these things when we bring them back online are going to have minimal risks associated with them.
That's where the big driver is to drive down our risk and make sure that there's minimal minimal chance that we're going to have what we had experienced and may never occur again.
You can see the results on the bottom of Page 21 the impacts of this.
We'll probably have a total adjusted EBITDA impact at EXCO for the full year 2011 of just slightly over $10 million.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Miller.
Okay thanks.
Final comments just talking a little bit about gas prices.
Again we're reviewing that and going around the table.
I have 12 different forecasts as we would have talked to all over investors.
So I think the main thing we can do is look at the forward curve make decisions based on economics and that's what we'll be doing here over the next month for our capital budget.
It frustrates me and does a lot of people in the room here and in the business that we have a country with no energy plan.
And I think we are and will be forever an importer of crude oil 5 million barrels of which comes from an enemy that we're funding.
We have begun exporting coal and we are looking like we're going to be a major exporter of natural gas.
So here's a country the only one in the world I might add that has no energy policy.
We're going to be an importer of crude from our enemy and an exporter of coal and natural gas to China to build them up.
It does not make sense.
Now with that gas prices being as cheap as they are and without any energy policy you are going to see facilities built to export because gas is so cheap.
We're selling it today at $3.70-ish China is paying $17 to $20 Japan is paying $17 to $20 and they want a bunch more gas.
We do have power plants being built today.
Our forecast is over the next 3 to 4 years power demand to go out by 10 to 12 Bcf a day.
And it looks like if gas prices stay cheap and our branch stay is high that over the next 4 or 5 years you could get exports in the 15 to 20 Bcf a day.
So it's going to take a lot of capital or up in prices to do what we're doing.
It's a shame that -- Boone is on our onboard he's a good friend and he's been working and spending a lot of money on this natural gas vehicle because it does work we've proven it.
I think it will work on its own math.
But there's over 5 billion vehicles around the world working on natural gas.
And we have 100 000 of them.
It doesn't make sense that we can't create a policy.
With that I'll shut up and get off the soapbox and open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if I can get a little more color on -- in the Marcellus with the higher IPs you got there any indication yet as to sort of the EUR expectations associated with those? I have some but Marcia has given me the no.
I think it ranges -- but she won't let me give you a number.
I think it's a little early.
Four is easy 5 is probable and maybe higher.
I mean the biggest issue right now is the curve is not like we had initially forecast with the hyperbolic.
It's kind of flatter and I think we need some time.
Marcia jump in here.
Now I mean we're in the process of reevaluating everything for year-end reserves.
So we'll be publishing numbers on that fairly at the end of the year.
So you're going to keep me quiet till the end of the year? Probably.
Okay sorry.
Research Division</strong> That's okay.
And then also up there can you speak a little bit to pipeline capacity or if you are seeing any constraints.
Not right now.
Now we are in the throes and planning up there of building our own gathering and creating interest rate [ph].
But where we're developing right now in Lycoming.
It's sitting right on the Transco line.
And so it's pretty easy and there is capacity in there.
So we're not having any problem it's just going from the least to get to Transco.
Research Division</strong> And same back on the -- back to the West? Back to the West no it's a little different challenge.
But we've had guys working on it for 4 years.
One spot may have 20 million or 30 million a day another spot may have 40 million or 50 million a day.
There is some gathering and some build out.
If we were to get really big there there could be a challenge.
But that's why we're going slow.
If we really got cooking down there and our guys are doing what we think they're starting to do we'll have a capital program to do some significant build out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other question going back to that down spacing pilot in the Shelby Trough area how many wells how many Haynesville and how many Bossier wells per section are we talking again? In one of the sessions we'll have 5 Haynesvilles and Bossiers.
And in the section that's operated by our partner we'll have 4 Haynesvilles and 3 Bossiers.
Research Division</strong> What do you think -- assuming this works I mean is that sort of max or could we ultimately go to 6 and 6 do you think? We're tapping it to see.
So...
Well let me give you a tip.
Marcia is shaking her head yes so she thinks that...
[indiscernible] Yes.
But if Marcia says yes there's a good possibility.
That's where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> As I think about where you are in the fourth quarter do you have a thought around exit rates as you bring back pipeline and the plant back on? Well if we were going to bring it on the fourth quarter my target at the beginning of the year was to do 400 450 500 550 and try to close that at 600.
We clearly...
We're being [indiscernible] Yes I don't think we're going to get the plant back up.
I mean it would -- I think that's a January event.
I think we've drilled enough wells and have enough potential production to be over 600.
And it's just going to be if we get the plant on or not.
I would expect to be right at or around 600 by the end of the -- with production.
But I think the first and second quarter next year we have a lot of stuff coming on.
That's already been drilled.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so as you think about that inventory of drilled non-completed and things in backlog versus your spending I mean how much benefit do you get going into next year? I mean how many wells you think you have to drill on non-completed that kind of give you a lower boost and maintain production? Well we drilled back non-completed the bad one.
I think drill...
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> You took back or...
Yes we have drilled and choked back on some maybe 50 million a day to exit with.
But I think the one that's exciting which is kind of a delay also between us and our partner we're going to have 15 20 wells that are kind of being delayed just by the way we're doing it.
We're going to drill all those wells we have 5 rigs running on 1 section right now.
We're going to drill all of those wells case them and then move the rigs off then we're going to bring in how many frac crews? Probably 4 total.
4 total frac crews.
We're going to frac them all at once and then we'll pull the plugs up and put them all in.
So that's a slight delay but it's for a reason and it's scheduled.
Typically when you got 5 rigs running you got a well coming on every month and we're going to have 15 wells coming on 6 months from now.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so when I think about that you'll have a surge of production I guess in the first quarter and carry through the second quarter and then it will decline after that? Yes exactly.
That's kind of the way we're forecasting.
And it depends and will -- as soon as we figure out what our capital program is and how many rigs we have running we'll update all of production for all of '12 and get with you.
It's going to be volatile between now and the end of the first quarter but we just want to tell everybody where we're going to stand because we just have to -- we're going to be drilling inside our capital.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And kind of inside your cash or cash flow and kind of think about EBITDA that ranges between kind of $700 million and $800 million depending upon prices and hedges that seems fair? Yes I think that seems fair.
But one of the things -- we'll get with you on that.
It's a wide range.
Tell me what gas price is.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> It costs $4.
Is the $80 million carried for BG used up this year or is it incremental to spending next year? Is that kind of an added stuff there? It will get used next year.
We cannot forecast first half of next year in it boys? Yes? We're kind of on a $20 million a quarter $20 million to 30 million a quarter of use so that will get us through at least the first quarter if not probably in the second.
Yes we'll be done by midyear.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then your Appalachian results I think is something that you have highlighted and clearly doubling that production rate by mid-2012 at your current rig program how do you think about the kind of types of wells that you're drilling? Does that change next? Are you still in the science mode or is it really going into a true development? We're in -- how can I answer it better...
Yes in the Northeast where we have a true development mode noting that we're still testing for example some of our flowback methodologies and some of the cluster spacing.
But no we're moving towards development.
But as always just as we continue to do in the Haynesville we're always going to continue its improvement and trying and make sure we're doing the right thing but it will be development.
We have a lot of acreage -- yes we have a lot of acreage up there.
It's all 90% HBP.
So we don't have to rush the monkey as Boone would say.
There are deals all over the place up there for sale.
John's got a group.
We're probably looking at 20 of them right now.
So one of the things we're trying to do is identify the areas where want to focus.
We think Lycoming is what we call an A area.
We have 2 or 3 areas that look like they could be B and maybe A areas.
We wish we were where Cabot is where there is an A++ area.
That's all taken.
But he's a good friend and it looks like I'm going to lose a bet to him because first 6 months we bet on who had the most production we beat [ph] in.
I look bad early on this quarter -- I mean this half.
So I think of all the areas and we just did a study this quarter on all shale across North America and I think where we are in the Haynesville and where we are up in the Northeast part are the 2 top areas with the exception of where Cabot is.
I mean I don't think there's any question and we would love to find another area.
And we're looking -- we probably John help me out we probably have 40 deals in the house right now we're looking at.
We can't find anything that's any better.
We're looking though.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so as you think about your non-shale and conventional assets versus acreage that's held by production primarily in the Marcellus and Haynesville how do you think about the opportunity for guys that are trying to grow oil and they're selling gas assets.
It seems like for discount versus very long-term price could be does that present an opportunity for you? We believe so.
Are you reading our mail? We have that meeting yesterday.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the 20 deals or so going how much of that is in that kind of shallow or decline conventional on this -- probably in the side mix as we think about a little bit more versus trying to add more acreage? And it sounds like more production...
It's out there it's out there.
We're looking.
We think even though they have a low margin to them because of high operating cost you're talking about Cotton Valley our shallow Appalachia $1.30 versus $1.50 an Mcf versus $0.20 in these other 2 areas but you're saying it's a low margin.
Yes those 2.5 [ph] you're almost double your margin.
So right on were looking at it.
It's easily financed.
That's one of the things.
We're seeing some but we're not the only guy looking.
I would say there's 3 or 4 private equity guys that want to do that also.
Now we may team up with some of those guys.
But if you invite a PV 15 [ph] just send it in because will just buy it.
But I mean that is not available.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Doug what opportunities or impact if any does this BG participating in LNG exports out of few years here have for EXCO either in thinking about potential opportunities for TGGT or in making BG more interested in aggressively drilling and growing production from your JV? Yes I think BG is a major factor around the world in LNG.
As you know they made over $2 billion last year.
They are the main player.
I think initially they came into the U.S.
thinking we are the largest buyer of natural gas.
Now with the advent of all of these shales we're in a joint venture and I believe you'll see BG have more than one facility here because they have the relationships with China and India and Japan.
And I think they believe that there's going to be huge potential there.
If they can get gas around the world at the right price the margin is unbelievable.
Now I think you can debate.
I believe that we're within 2 years of physical gas trading at a premium.
I think utilities can't burn paper.
And I think that the LNG outtakes are going to have to get tied up physical gas.
With us being BG's partner now we don't have an investment in the plant and we don't have the access over there so sharing that would probably be a long shot.
But I wish you'd harp on them a little.
But I think maybe us getting a small premium for being able to sell gas into that plant is something that's probably -- we haven't discussed it yet but I can -- they're going to need a lot of gas.
And we're a partner and we get along great.
And I just -- we do not -- we're not big enough to put up $5 billion to participate in the plant.
I think there'll be opportunities and I'm sure we'll have the discussions.
But I don't see us making $10 an Mcf because we're their partner.
Research Division</strong> I guess does it -- do you think it will make BG more willing to kind of push you within the JV to aggressively ramp up production? Or do you feel kind of a line when you think about the capital allocation relative to gas price? I think we got -- we were getting that early in the year and we have had a lot of meetings.
And I think we're totally in alignment right now on capital budget.
It's pure math.
If and when I think overproducing today at 350 when there's going to be -- ready to be export and utilities coming.
I think what we need to do as a partnership is define where our areas are and what our potential is and be prepared.
Gas gets back to 6 when we have 100%-type rate of return year and they need gas.
I think we'll both want to push the pedal.
But I'd say we're totally aligned right now.
We've had a lot of discussions with them.
And we're working on the pipeline.
We're talking about a potential monetization of our pipeline asset either into an MLP or a partial sale.
So we're all -- everything that we're working on right now there's no disputes and we're totally in line.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I guess if we do -- maybe you've mentioned this of which guys apologies but at least it's kind of come up loosely.
If share prices hold today what would that imply for a Haynesville rig count for next year? Let say what? Research Division</strong> If the current strip holds today where it stands for 2012 what would your -- what would you think your Haynesville rig count...
I can't answer that.
We're running all kinds of different models.
We're 22 today.
Weve run 17.
Weve run 12.
We're going to our board with all different and I'm highly confident it will be a reduction.
And whether it ends up being 17 or 15 I just don't know.
It will be lower.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to Brian's question there.
In terms of the lower rig count how would you just rate the Shelby versus Holly versus the Marcellus in terms of incrementally where you would take rigs off? Well I think 2 things.
You get in an area and you hire people and you get a plan going.
It's a little tougher to move people out.
So that's part of the consideration.
I would say where we are in the Marcellus right now we're planning on going to 5 rigs.
I don't think we'll change that.
We just have -- there's opportunities up there.
We do have an area where we do have some lease expirations that we have to deal with up in the Northeast and were actually trying to add.
So I would say 3 to 4 rigs up there.
One rig doing delineation is probably where we plan on being.
I think BG agrees with that.
Hal what do you think? Yes sir.
Yes.
Now down on the Haynesville we have figured out the Holly area.
And we're really starting to figure out the Highlander area.
Now the rate of return isn't quite as good down there because we're spending $12 million instead of $9 million.
So we have to take that into consideration.
We have plenty of areas to drill but at $4 gas it's a math problem.
If our rate of return gets -- starts getting below 20% we'll move out of the area.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I mean Shelby is more delineation rather than development in terms of [indiscernible] Right.
I think that's where we are.
I'd say Holly is pure development and Harold can tell you what the IP rate and the pressure is going to be before we start drilling.
We're not quite there yet.
But I'd say next year sometime we'll get there.
I mean it is faulted deeper higher pressure a little more volatility.
But so far we've had some spectacular result.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes how would you compare the IRRs between Holly and Shelby.
I mean Shelby costs more deeper but that's again better rates.
They're very similar.
I think we're kind of thinking Holly at $4 in the 30% range maybe down there where it's a little bit deeper.
It depends -- I'd say 20 to 25.
It's a little bit lower.
It's around [ph] 25.
And again every area has subregions within that area.
And if you go down into what we call our Highlander area of Shelby where we're getting some of our most outstanding results you got very very profitable rates of return.
Obviously that's where we'd move toward development first.
If you get into some of the northern parts of the Shelby area where the results are quite as stellar then you probably back up some of the drilling there because some of your rates of return are going to be more...
Yes and the thing about is here we are making an excuse for 13 million to 15 million a day wells.
But a $4 gas because it's not 25 the IRR goes down.
And we've got those things held we'll just defer them.
Bottom line is we've got plenty of locations that are going to light up economically and we'll have a very stellar program going forward.
And if we don't get the 20% rates of return hurdle we'll reduce our drilling dramatically.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A different question just on the midstream side.
I mean you have a lot of value tied up TGGT.
But the question is strategically how are you thinking about timing or when you would want to try to unlock some of that value? You talked about potentially monetizing some [indiscernible] Yes I think we're looking at all options.
One of them is sale one of them is a joint venture with the infrastructure fund and one of them is on MLP.
We're going through that process right now.
We've had every investment banker in the world in here telling us that their #1 in MLPs.
So we've kind of got that.
We'd like to take a proposal to the board again on November 17 and maybe get an idea where that comes up.
But I think we'll -- we'll know which way we're heading by the end of the year but it won't happen until next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then just a final question on the -- you talked about a lot of deals.
Obviously the gas deal is being cheaper.
But are you comfortable just being mostly a gas company the way it is? Or would you rather look at deals on the other side even though you got to pay up for it? We're looking at both.
And believe it or not there's some pretty reasonably prized oil deals in the market.
We're looking at probably 4 deals in the Bakken 4 or 5 deals in the Eagle Ford 3 or 4 deals in West Texas.
We're not afraid of oil.
Everybody here has been in the business over 30 years so we had a company that was 95% oil last time.
So if the right deal comes along and we're looking at them and we'll bid on them and they're oily we'll do it.
It's just cost to poker is pretty high.
I mean what we're against is paying $500 million or $600 million for a bunch of acreage that's going to take us 10 years to drill up.
Actually we put acreage cost in when we drill the well.
We think that's probably your thoughts unlike some of our competitors.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes but you don't feel like you need some oil to give yourselves some more flexibility in terms of how you allocate your capital on a go-forward basis? Well I mean I wish we had 50% oil and 50% gas like that on that but we don't.
We have focused on these 2 areas.
We're now got them.
And we're going to try to expand in other areas.
Were looking at every single area where the economics are best.
But part of some of the oil deals we're looking at the other [ph] deals sell the oil.
It's now going truck and rail to get it moving and you got to take that into consideration including West Texas.
We had a meeting yesterday a potential railing of crude oil in what county area.
I mean that had never happened before.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to check in on your position there in the Haynesville.
Are you guys pretty much all HBP on DeSoto at this point? And where are you at in the process HBP in your Shelby Trough acreage? I'd say we're 100% HBP in DeSoto.
And I know we've been telling everybody we're going to be all HBP down in Texas by the end of the year.
How are we on target? We're north of 80% right now.
And everything we're drilling right now with the exception of the spacing project we'll finish out that drilling I mean completing the unit wells for the sections.
So we're virtually all HBP by the end of the year.
Okay so we're right on target.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess obviously you guys talked about currently being in I guess you said 15 or so rigs in Holly 7 or so in the Shelby area.
Would you imagine a proportional basis to see a similar breakdown on your rigs next year given that you're Holly IRRs are a little higher? Not necessarily I think that's all part of the planning.
That's going to be Harold and Mike.
We probably going to have about 8 scenarios that we're going to take to the board.
One of them is we would reduce more in Holly but probably we won't.
I mean we're leaving it up to them because they've got it figured out up there.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
How well do you think the Bossier is delineated in your Shelby area at this point? I mean I guess how many industry...
We have one in a row.
Two in a row.
Yes I'll cancel it.
Two in a row I'm sorry.
Three.
It's going well.
So I mean it's going well.
But saying it's delineated where Marcia will give us some reserves is the stretch.
I think we've got to have about 30 wells before she will give us anything.
LLC Research Division</strong> Has there been any industry wells that have tested the Bossier or kind of in the area there and Shelby that give you confidence at all? I think we've got producing better run [ph] only our rates are rather low.
We're establishing a better rate [indiscernible] There had been some and we kind of -- the geologists and geophysicists have kind of tried to pick the sweet spot down there.
If the Bossier is not as good across the play and there's a window in there where it looks like the Bossier and the Haynesville are both good and that's what we're testing right now.
It isn't going to be across the play both Bossier and Haynesville.
Did I lie on that one? No? Okay.
Leo Mike just spoke up we better listen.
I think we're very encouraged with the Bossier down there.
In fact in some areas the Bossier has been a little better than Haynesville.
The results are not [ph] I think we're very -- especially north the Bossier looks stronger down there.
So I think we're very happy with it.
Much better than DeSoto.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess what percentage your acreage down in that Shelby area is kind of in this Highland area which you guys have kind of quoted as the better? How many units...
Probably 1/3.
Yes 25% 30%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just to clarify on your midstream monetization you guys have talked about.
Is that pretty much just TGGT that you guys are looking at? Yes.
We're going to keep the burning separate for right now and we're also keeping all of Appalachia.
Appalachia is early on.
We'll do that jointly right now with BG maybe set up another animal base.
It's so small you wouldn't want to put all that in there.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> If you are to do -- you said you're sort of looking at both gas and oil acquisitions.
Would BG be interested in being a partner if it was an oil acquisition? And would they be interested in being a partner for those new gas acquisitions? I don't know.
I would say they're a good partner.
I would say we would invite them in.
We're not afraid.
I mean they're a good partner.
They bring a lot to the table.
We do not have to outside of those areas bring them in.
One of our challenges in growth around here is we have small working interest.
Like we said we have 1.2 Bcf a day in the Holly area and only 400 net of that is ours.
So we're not afraid to ask them in.
And if the math works I'm sure they'll be a partner.
Research Division</strong> Have they expressed an interest in opening the door wider than the existing joint ventures? Well the answer is not really.
But Betsy Spomer our contact.
She loves doing deals.
And if they make sense I'm sure that we would bring her in.
We've got other guys also if we need a partner.
We've been approached by 10 different people including private equity and industry.
And the deals that we're looking at right now Gil our most of them are in the $50 million to $100 million where we would probably not need or even look for a partner.
If we find a little oil deal that maybe could expand where we could drill have 1 rig or 2 running over there.
And if our guys like it and we think it has the right rates of return I think that's something we got to do ourselves.
Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
Can you talk about your sort of interest relative interest in buying producing properties versus unproved acreage? Yes my first choice is producing properties that have acreage within them that you don't have to pay for.
Research Division</strong> Anything for free right Doug? Well typically that's over the last 30 years that's what we've done.
When gas prices are down we bought production where the locations were worth 0.
I mean if we bought a Cotton Valley deal today none of the locations are economic.
Now gas goes back to 6 all of those locations light up and you start drilling them.
That's been our model for the last 30 years.
Buy production it's easily financed.
There's plenty of money available to finance.
And when prices are low you pay nothing for the locations and then if prices go up you drill them.
And so you got -- right now that's the challenge with oil.
Oil is kind of up and you have the pay for the locations.
That's just the way it works.
Research Division</strong> Right.
In the Marcellus you don't seem to be -- at least you highlight in your slide where the 2 focus areas are.
What is about Clearfield County that you're not focusing on the area right now? It's part of our appraisal area.
We'll drill some wells there overtime.
It's all HBP.
We've picked out some certain areas and you look at a lot of different factors when you decide what areas to appraise at that one time.
But we haven't eliminated Clearfield from our portfolio.
It's part of [indiscernible] No no.
Usually when we get a question like that Gil you don't own acreage in Clearfield County do you? It's an area where we have acreage where we have production shallow production.
It's on our list of things to do and we kind of expect that it's going to be a B-type area.
And in fact one of the appraisal wells we drilled in Centre County is right on the central Clearfield line.
I mean you can throw a rock from one of the other.
So it's a...
It's going to be on the radar this year.
But again it's all HBP.
We're leaving that to the guys when it's time to go over there go over there.
We're not in a hurry.
Research Division</strong> Okay so the large expense because there's no urgency so you're I mean...
Right exactly.
We don't think it's bad.
We just have plenty of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you look at the improvements in the -- to talk about cost.
When you look at the improvements in the drilling cost in the Haynesville is the improvements with cycle time -- or can you break out the amount of improvement from cycle time versus optimization and completions versus pad drilling versus the cost? I love the question because we're going to stump Harold.
Well let's start with days.
The biggest thing that I've seen and heard is they're proud of we've gone from x days to x days what are those days? Well our current well in the Holly area our wells are being -- the band the number of days to drill from spud to rig release is tightened.
We're coming in just under 40 days on average right now.
Where we were at....
The original wells had science.
When you got those down get the science removed you're in the 60s and the 50s and those were now in the upper 30s typically.
So that's kind of the -- that's how we transform [indiscernible] And it isn't -- and the cost per day is not just the $20 000 a day on the drilling rig.
We estimate while we're drilling a well it's about $60 000 a day.
So it's not just the drilling rig cost.
So bringing that down is significant.
Okay.
Next one is pad drilling.
That's just saving time right? Yes it saves time.
And we're essentially drilling 2 wells from 1 brick side 1 pad.
The rig we'll drill the first well drill cases then move to the next drill cases to stand and move the rig off...
But that kind of saves you 2 days.
That saves -- it shortens the time on that location between the wells.
And then the big challenge is just the coordination of the frac activity.
When you have 4 rigs typically in Holly drilling side by side they're each drilling 1 to 2 wells.
And move the rigs up and it's the coordination keeping all things lined up.
So that impacts your cycle time quite a bit.
But I mean we've really worked on our inventory.
We've dropped over inventory at completions.
We were typically running 20 plus or minus completions.
Now we're less than we're almost 1/2 that in terms of wells waiting on completion.
And it's just really just the coordination of all the frac activity happening simultaneously.
That's really the big challenge there just keeping everything lined up.
What was the other one he was asking about? Frac cost.
Research Division</strong> Yes cost.
We -- over time we changed our profit mixture.
Our initial wells were all intermediate-strength proppants.
We've experimented over time.
We've reduced that to about a 50-50 blend.
And then we're taking steps to reduce that even further like 3:1 blend with a smaller intermediate strength portion.
That has a pretty significant cost impact.
We're working towards that now.
And we've actually got some completions going on right now at blend.
A pound of intermediate-strength proppant process costs probably 5 to 6x more than a pound of sand.
It has been kind of a lot of little things.
I mean we've been very encouraged here lately.
We've switched a lot of rigs to buy fuel where we buy natural gas and diesel.
I mean that's like a $50 000 a well savings.
So a lot of it the big chunks are kind of gone and so we're working with small fine-tuning.
This year -- everybody around here if we can save $1 we're saving $1.
But I think we've gone through the big savings and the testing.
And now we're down to the little things.
If gas stays where it is I would expect you're going to see some rig cost start coming down and maybe even some frac fleets so they continue build them.
But if all stays up they'll all move over there.
Research Division</strong> And are you seeing any indications that those rig costs and frac costs are coming -- after the services are coming down? Or...
Well we've had -- I think we went out for bids on the frac fleets here about 4 or 5 months ago and it was pretty aggressive.
I don't want to say they're coming down because Halliburton and BJ Services are probably listening.
But I'd say it's more competitive.
When you get a couple of fleets in East Texas and the choice is either stay or move down to the Eagle Ford they have people that want to stay.
They're doing everything they can to keep those fleets busy in the area were they have expertise.
They found the rigs.
We have 22 rigs running out there and we're finally getting it to running smooth.
The people are trained right now.
We drill well after well.
And I feel bad about releasing some of those but it's a math problem we have to.
Every one of those rigs with the exception of maybe one is purring like a kitten right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question on the Marcellus.
So I think how you said you've drilled one well in the Centre County Clearfield County line so what are your plans in terms of developing that? Any thoughts about trading the acreage or selling the acreage? I'm really just trying to get a sense of the productivity or the prospectivity on your entire 140 000 net acres of perspective merciless acreage.
Our development focus is going to be in the Lycoming County area for the foreseeable future.
So we're going to continue to delineate and appraise areas outside of that over the next year.
So probably we'll say we're ready to move into a new development area.
Like Doug said earlier you're looking for the other As.
We think we got an A in Lycoming.
We think this looks encouraging in the Central Clearfield area in the Armstrong area and in the Jefferson area.
But we want to drill a few more wells there and really make our plans before we move forward.
And Joe I don't think were a seller of that acreage.
I think if anything if we saw a deal we'll be a buyer in those areas and John is trying to do that right now.
We have a little play with 5 000 or 10 000 acres down in West Virginia.
We're trying to buy -- we think we're going to be buying some acreage down there.
We're not a seller yet.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And of this 140 000 perspective Marcellus acres net how much of that do you think you've proven up at this point? 10 acres.
No I'm kidding.
A small percentage very small percentage.
Marcie you got any ideas on that? [indiscernible] is 50 000.
50 000 is proven up.
But I mean that's -- a big significant piece of that is up in Lycoming County.
That's probably -- I don't even know if we have any reserves book down on it yet but it sure proved.
Are you going to give us some...? Well at the end we're producing where we have some.
Okay good.
So I think it's way -- Joe it's way early.
And John's group is trying to buy more and we clearly have one area where we'd like to be focused.
But those other areas we haven't written them off yet.
Our guys are starting to finally get it up there and everybody's working together and they're making some good wells outside of Lycoming.
Research Division</strong> So I guess using the term proven is probably an incorrect term.
What I meant to ask was how much of the 140 000 do you think is going to work based on the data you have? That's another question.
I would say the majority of it is going to work.
It will range from good to great.
And by the time we figured that out we'll have another 140 000.
There's stuff for sale up there.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just one follow-up to the LNG question.
So Doug are you saying that you think that EXCO has no direct implications and no direct impact from BG's plan to export or to buy LNG? Let me tell you that is an expensive man's game.
We talk to them a lot.
We have not pushed to become a partner.
I don't know if they'd let us if they could.
They help us as far as worldwide demand and what the worldwide prices are.
And we talk to them a lot about what they think gas price is going to be because they have a little different view because they're looking at the whole world where we're looking at Louisiana.
I think we'll have some opportunities but it maybe they want to buy all the gas we have.
And all we do is market our gas based on Henry Hub.
And we're probably going to start -- we're in discussions and we can mark at our 50% to whoever want to.
We're in discussion with several utilities.
We have not made a deal on any of our gas physically long-term yet.
But before we do we will have a chat with BG.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Leight with RBC Capital Markets.
I think most of my questions have been exhausted.
One quick follow-up on drilling and completion cost.
Just to clarify is there any friction in terms of crews that are going to stay or rigs that may stay in Haynesville? Do you have contracts rolling over that can benefit from some lower costs there? Yes well that's something these guys have done a great job on.
I'd say if we just let our contracts run off better in effect we could go down to 11 rigs by the end of the year and that's the way it works.
No I think it's even lower.
Oh it's even lower.
By the end of '12.
Yes by the end of '12.
So I mean the answer is we have contracts rolling off.
Typically we would expect to renew those.
Our guys are right now evaluating which rigs and which companies that are preferred contractors.
And do we want to have 4 different contractors or 1 or 2.
That's in Mike's and Harold's hands right now.
They're going to come back with recommendations.
They clearly are crews and rigs that do a better job in every play.
And then quickly on differentials.
It looks like your forecasting some improvements.
Is that because you have more Marcellus gas coming on.
Is that marketing? Is that pipeline take away? Mainly Adam it's all -- its' mainly just the Arcadian system coming on where we'll be able to access our own firm and get to the better markets than we've had to in the third quarter using interruptible.
We had to go pay for interruptible or pay a little additional cost while this plant's down.
And so it's going to get better just by moving that gas off some of the place where we had to pay an extra few cents on to some where we've already paid for.
And then finally your -- a question on larger bank facility you've got a $1 billion drawn.
What's your comfort level ratio for bank in your capital structure? We're targeting 2:1 debt-to-EBITDA.
I understand.
I'd say the sweet spot on our bank draw is 70%.
We've gone higher.
If we do you'll see significant hedging going on and pay it down quicker.
But if you talk to the banks or us kind of the sweet spot and high is around 70% of capacity.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Robertson with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The only question I have left was did you talk at all in the discussion about TGGT about what you thought the EBITDA profile would be over the next couple of years? And can you talk about that? We can't talk about it right now because the rig count is very critical there because we have very little third-party because of our operating guys.
We've gone out to get third party twice and brought them back in because they keep making better wells than we forecast.
So as soon as we get our rig count confirmed at the board level we'll readjust that and we'll do an upgrade on that maybe on the 18 or 19 also.
It moves around just based on the rig count.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's this month right? That's not December? No it's November right.
[Operator Instructions]  Your next our question comes from the line of William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Sorry quick follow-up.
On the Shelby completed well cost of $13 million plus that you all experienced in the first half and just under that now the IRRs that you discussed a few minutes ago was that assuming $12 million or the $13 million that you're experiencing now? And how soon can we actually see a get to the $12 million target? We've been running our economics on $12.5 million well cost.
And we expect over the next 3 to 6 months that we'll bring that down to about $12 million.
Research Division</strong> You said 6 months? 3 to 6.
But we're using $12.5 million on our modeling right now yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that 20% to 25% at a $4 gas? At $4 gas and $12.5 million cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
Just thinking about capital allocation Doug.
How many with you've got the share buyback program of $200 million you've talked about producing property acquisitions it sounds like that's pretty competitive with -- if you're thinking about production and thinking about the private equity firms out there.
And Ill throw out the thing is corporate M&amp;A.
I mean how do you prioritize the three uses of capital there? Well our stocks are trading at $10 and we can liquidate it at $20 it's pretty ideal buy.
That's a debate at the board level.
I mean I promise you if we weren't restricted we would have been buying stock.
Board has been pushing us.
We just been restricted and we will be restricted until Friday I think.
Is that right Lanny? But I'd say this if we can buy a $50 million or $100 million deal in the Cotton Valley or the Haynesville with 3 locations and finance it right I think we can make 25% 30% rates of return by the stock.
It's all things around the table we have 4 5 partners that want to invest with us.
And so we're not going to stretch our balance sheet by doing a big deal.
If there's a big deal out there where the market -- where it works will bring in a partner.
And we're not issuing any stock right here.
I don't think I answered that right but that's the answer.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Okay thanks everybody.
Good questions you guys.
Again sorry we can't forecast when a plant is coming back on.
But I think it's in everybody's best interest we did what we did and delayed it.
And we'll have that back on and report back to everybody.
But operationally our guys did a spectacular job and they're going to keep it up.
And we'll have some -- probably by the end of the week early next week we'll report to you on the bank deal.
And then shortly after the 17th will get back to you on our rig counts capital budget and there will be an update on TGGT.
Again thanks for calling.
Bye.
This conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Tracy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you and I will now introduce and turn the call over to Mr.
Doug Miller Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
You may go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Welcome everybody to our fourth quarter and year end conference call.
Before I get started well with me today I've got 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 people and we'll be here as late as you need us to answer any and all questions.
But before we get started Ramsey will be reading our disclosure statement.
Thanks Doug.
I would like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
Statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to Pages 23 and 24 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as the cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Is that longer than normal? It seems like it.
Okay we'll get started.
With me here Steve Smith Paul Rudnicki Ramsey of course Hal Hickey Marcia Simpson Mike Chambers Mark Wilson and our 2 lawyers to keep me quiet Lanny Boeing and Justin Clarke.
So with that we'll get kicked off.
It has been a wild year to say the least.
A year ago at this time we were going private and here we are public with $2.02 gas or whatever it's trading at.
So it's been a challenging year even though we had quite a few accomplishments.
Our operating guys set all kinds of records.
They hit their targets.
We averaged 552 million a day in the fourth quarter with quite a bit shut in because of the plants still not being on averaged over 500 million for the year which is up significantly over the year before.
They've -- we have kind of unpicked the lock on the manufacturing in DeSoto Parish so we have continued to upgrade and change and we'll get into that as we go.
We delineated Shelby but what -- because gas fell below $4 we have ceased drilling down there.
It takes $4 to make our 20% rate of return down there.
And so all rigs have been released from there.
Hal will get into that.
We do have 14 to 16 wells coming on here over the next month or so.
Marcellus the guys are doing a good job up there especially in the Northeast.
We'll get into some of the results there.
We're over 100 million a day of production up there.
And it looks like -- we were thinking at year end because we worked our first budget back in the fall it looks like we could get a 20% rate of return down to $3.
But since it's gone under $3 we're going to slow that drilling down also.
I'd say that part of the reason for going private last year we wanted we had a group that wanted to be a buyer and consolidator of gas.
We didn't think it was appropriate to be a public company at the time so we were going to take the fair and full price.
We -- I thought gas would be a $3 to $4 commodity for a couple of years until e-vehicles or power started using it.
I think what's happened is gas has gone down a lot farther than we thought.
Clearly if we had gone private we'd be down 25% right now.
But with gas going down farther I think what it's done is accelerated what I expected to be some demand increase the power which we expected to really be a gas user by the end of '12 and really getting into '13 you're starting to see it already.
There's a lot of people that are really benefiting from low natural gas price chemical companies fertilizer companies and I kind of expect those guys to start beginning hedging at these prices right here because many operators are shutting in.
Hal will get into that.
We're not going to be shutting in our Haynesville gas but we are looking at the rest of our portfolio and we do have uneconomic conventional gas wells and Hal we are going to be shutting those in.
And I think across the industry if everybody'll look at their portfolio on conventional gas especially the ones that make water I'll bet we have 10% to 15% of the production that's out there that should be shut in just because they're losing money at these prices.
The other thing that we've done since the beginning of the year is it's all hands on deck on looking at costs across every venue especially on the operating side and we're starting to find some.
Well I expect during '12 we'll have some fairly significant cost cutting going on.
We're already seeing that.
For this year we're working on our balance sheet.
As we explained we have an unrestricted subsidiary TGGT pipeline a joint venture with BG.
We have signed an exclusive agreement to sell 1/3 of that.
We're marching on that and that is an unrestricted subsidiary cash that comes in here.
We will just go to reduce debt and again what I'm trying to do is get as much cash available as we can because there's a lot of opportunities out there.
I mentioned to the banks a week ago that I thought there was at least $20 billion of deals in the marketplace today.
I think that's expanded by about $10 billion since I made that statement.
So there's a lot of deals in both oil and gas.
We have been approached by a couple of large institutions to do joint ventures in acquiring conventional gas.
We're working on that as we speak.
We think there are some opportunities out there to buy conventional gas and obviously all you would be doing is buying it.
You wouldn't be drilling any of it.
We've also been approached recently to do a joint venture on buying shale gas with somebody that will be putting up some drilling dollars.
We're evaluating that.
So we have a lot of things cooking that we'll be getting done.
Four or 5 oil deals are on the market.
We've had people in the field this week reviewing those.
I expect we'll be making bids on that in the next not-too-distant future.
Again we're going to be focusing on liquidity and we're going to be focusing on some M&amp;A that was out there.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Steve.
All right let's go to Page 7 in the slide book and talk a little bit just about the year of '11 and the fourth quarter.
As Doug has already mentioned we had a good an excellent year really in terms of production.
We averaged 501 million a day.
That was a huge increase over last year 63%.
We also increased revenues.
We increased EBITDA.
So it -- year-over-year was a very good performance and our operating people have done an outstanding job.
Our operating costs are really down between years like 39% and we expect that trend to not that kind of decrease but we expect to maintain those operating costs at a very low level.
Our operating costs in the Haynesville right now are about $0.08.
And so that tells you that -- why we have no interest in shutting in that production.
And the Marcellus operating costs are also low.
So we're looking forward to continuing that trend.
The quarter of '11 versus '10 is also about that those same kind of growth numbers in terms of revenues and all the rest of it.
As far as Q4 versus Q3 there was a tremendous decrease in gas price by 17% between Q3 of '11 and Q4 of '11.
So obviously the fourth quarter wasn't exactly what we anticipated it would be but on the other hand it was still a good quarter.
We made $0.64 of cash flow from operations which was strong and so in spite of as Doug mentioned already the curtailments that we have at the TGGT facility we should be back online by the end of March.
Cash G&amp;A costs are down a lot 36%.
And so all in all it was a pretty good year and a pretty good quarter.
Over on Slide 8 is a slide that I like to put in here just to show what we're doing from a standpoint of a per Mcfe costs and revenues.
You'll see that in spite of the very -- the low gas prices in Q4 we still had a $2.40 cash operating margin and a $3.40 when you take into -- the cash settlements into consideration.
Obviously a big part of our success in operations has been in reducing costs at all levels and we'll continue to focus on that thing.
Now in '12 obviously the gas price just we're and Paul will get into it but we're looking at an overall average for '12 of $3.21 counting the oil that we have out in the Permian.
So we've got a good hedge book going into '12.
So '12 should be in pretty good shape.
So we're moving ahead on a lot of our capital reductions that we'll be discussing.
We're cutting capital substantially and should be flat on our capital expenditures with our EBITDA.
Page 9 is the chart showing where our debt was back in '09 what it's done at this point.
As you can see from this chart the production levels obviously are going to drop some during 2012 because we are cutting back our drilling rigs dramatically from 22 rigs to 9 on average.
So obviously production is going to tail off some.
But Paul will get into a little more on that when he talks about our guidance going forward.
Debt is at $1.7 billion right now net of cash.
And if we get a deal done on TGGT that would be $1.5 billion.
We're well within all of our covenants on our revolver and don't anticipate any problem with that during this year.
On 10 as a summary of our cash and debt the bank revolver is the same as it was at the end of the year $1.147 billion and our bonds of course are the same.
The net debt is $1.747 billion.
Our bond base is $1.6 billion.
Because of the decline in pricing we're expecting that to be in the $1.4 billion neighborhood something like that.
So should be ample we're not anticipating any debt increases in the bank debt this year in terms of operations.
So we're moving in the right direction there.
The hedging we've got about 45% of our production hedged.
The gas at $5.27 the oil at $97.84.
Very little hedging in '13 but we're looking to add to those hedges as we go through the year here.
So all in all obviously '12 is going to be somewhat challenging but I think we've got the plan in place and the one thing that we still have and will continue to have are world-class assets in the 2 best shale areas in the country.
So Paul with that I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Steve.
I'm going to pick up on Slide 12 and go through a little detail on our fourth quarter numbers compared to our guidance.
As you can see from the slide our actual production of 552 million came in below the low end of our guidance by 3 million a day.
A couple of things were going on there.
We continued to have the curtailments from the treating facility which obviously took us to the low end of guidance.
With the curtailments that we were seeing in the field in some ways we took advantage of that and we curtailed wells that -- and accelerated some work on them.
One of those things is accelerating a tubing program as we tube up the wells after completion.
We also deferred some completions in the quarter.
As you know we announced that we ended the year with 18 rigs.
We were able to start dropping rigs during the quarter.
We also slowed down the pace of completion in the quarter and that affected us by nearly 5 million a day of volumes there just on the completion deferral.
We also instituted a more restricted choke program especially down in our deeper Shelby assets which Hal will get into later.
And that was instituted in the fourth quarter.
We're expecting to see a much flatter decline.
But on the front end it will take some of the initial volume out and that affected us in the quarter as well.
On the differentials the gas differential obviously came in on a percentage basis much lower than we had forecasted.
On a dollar basis the gas differential was in line with our expectations.
As some of you are aware most of your differential has a fixed and a variable component in it and as you get to lower and lower commodity prices the fixed component is a larger contributor to the differential than a percentage component.
So when commodity prices came down in applying a percentage differential it implied a stronger differential than we actually realized.
Lease operating expenses as noted in the slide were a little bit above the high end of guidance.
Again as we were curtailed in the field the operating guys looked at wells that we could increase the maintenance on.
So if we're going to have some wells shut in go ahead and shut in wells that you can accelerate some maintenance on that affected us on the operating expense.
Gathering expenses came in towards the high end of guidance.
The main contributor there was our last leg of firm transportation came on during the quarter with our Enterprise Acadian firm transportation contracts as well as the impact of lower volumes on a per unit basis would raise your per-unit gathering charge.
There was no change to any of our TGGT gathering rates as those are fixed market-based rates.
DD&amp;A came in higher than expected as a result of the year end gas prices used to calculate our year-end reserves and the removal of the conventional PUDs.
It resulted in a lower base to deplete from.
So it increased your DD&amp;A rate and effectively was also a true up for the year to get us to that annual rate.
The capital side of the equation came in well below guidance 2 things going on there.
Again the reduction in activity led to a good chunk of the difference in terms of again we were letting rigs go and deferring completions faster than we initially anticipated as well as just coming in below our run rate that we had used as a component of coming up with the guidance.
We expect that to continue to come down obviously as the capital spending program comes down.
Going on to Slide 13 looking at our guidance on a quarterly basis for 2012.
As Steve has pointed out based on the plan we laid out we anticipate having relatively flat volumes in the first half of the year and a little bit of a decrease towards the second half of the year.
One of the things we are [indiscernible] is although we are going to run an average of 9 rigs in the Haynesville we're going to manage our completions.
So to flatten out the production profile as we pointed out in the press release if you look at what our plans are for the end of the year for 2012 compared to what we ended 2011 with we had about 52 wells that were either waiting on completion drilling or in the completion phase at the end of 2011 using the 22 to 18 rig count for the fourth quarter.
By the -- with the reduction in the rig count by the end of the year we still anticipate pushing out about 41 completions into next year.
And again that's a reflection of reducing the completion activity faster than we will reduce the drilling activity.
Differentials you can see that we are forecasting our differentials to get a little bit better during the year and that's mainly a result of some increase in price but also just a different mix in the volumes as the Haynesville comes down a little bit as a percentage of the volumes.
Lease operating expenses you can see in the back half of the year we're forecasting some pretty good decreases.
We are anticipating that those will come in sooner in the year but at this point we're going to keep the guidance to reflect the back half as where they would start showing up.
DD&amp;A rate is raised to the kind of current level that we're seeing and everything else is pretty much in line with our fourth quarter results.
Would like to point out on the capital expense again you can see the reduction in our capital.
We're expecting Q1 to average between $180 million to $200 million.
Again a reflection of the activity we're carrying in from 2011.
But as you look into Q4 our capital expenditures should be in the $60 million to $70 million range.
So for a full year based on the Nymex prices noted below $2.80 for Q1 $3 for Q2 and Q3 and $3.50 for Q4 $100 oil flat we're anticipating EBITDA at the midpoint of around $465 million with our $470 million of capital expenditures.
One other thing to note that as you all may remember we carry a restricted cash balance as part of our joint venture agreements.
It's there to prefund a quarter's worth of activity in our Haynesville.
And as our activity levels are coming down in the Haynesville our restricted cash balance will come down as well.
So with a flat to EBITDA spend and a reduction in our cash balance our debt balance will be flat to down by the end of the year.
The other thing to highlight is while we're forecasting to end Q4 between 445 million to 465 million a day depending on a lot of things that happened this year especially commodity prices and what our plans will be into 2013 we expect to maintain to grow those volumes and -- going into 2013 and start growing again from there.
Bottom line what's going on in the year is the production profile is going to adjust to the capital spending and we expect that to happen by year end and we'll be growing from a revised decline base and capital program going forward.
With that I will hand it over to Hal to kind of go over some of the detailed operations.
Okay let's look at Slide 15.
Here's a map of our portfolio and of course we remain focused in the 3 basins: East Texas/North Louisiana where we have about 88% of our production; Appalachia where we still have tremendous upside from our Marcellus shale; and the Permian area where we have our most liquid production.
In fact in the Permian area we're making more than 1 700 barrels of oil a day and some 1 300 barrels per day of NGLs that previously we've always reported in our gas numbers.
So we do have a significant NGL component in the Permian that we manage.
Across our whole portfolio more than 8 400 wells.
We operate 94% of them so we can control our spending patterns.
I want to talk about reserves for a minute.
You might recall in 2010 we reported a 576% reserve production replacement.
This year we're reporting 110% production replacement.
And if you step back for a minute and think about what's more meaningful when you're booking reserves the way the industry is now and the development the way we're doing our development now it makes more sense to look at these things on a 3-year basis.
So overall 3 years reserve replacement of 319%.
Step back again and think about a year ago we were able to book virtually all of our core Holly DeSoto Parish area into proved and we think that we'll have enough wells drilled in a contiguous or nearly contiguous area up in the Marcellus in Lycoming County during 2012 that we'll be able to do some similar booking there and book across that whole area and book in the PUDs.
So it's meaningful to look at this thing over a period of time because you're going to have some ups and downs as you get critical mass drilled.
Three-year all in F&amp;D $1.99 when you adjust for the benefit of the carry from BG Group.
Proved developed reserves in 2011 grew 22% from 2010.
PD represents 74% of our total proved reserves and we had a 221 per Mcfe F&amp;D in our PD category.
Now if you look at the FEC strip pricing we had 1.3 Tcf of reserves.
Of course that's what we'll report.
If you look at it on management strip pricing we have 1.5 Tcf of proved reserves.
Moving onto Slide 16 I know Paul started to give you some color on our capital budget plan you might recall that our budget in 2011 was some $976 million.
We came out in November when prices were still relatively high compared to today and we had reduced that budget to $710 million.
We planned on a 13-rig program in East Texas/North Louisiana.
We're going to further reduce the budget as Paul said down to $470 million.
We'll still spend some 80% on shales.
61% will go into the Haynesville/Bossier area.
Of course that will be dominated by drilling.
In Haynesville/Bossier East Texas/North Louisiana we have 13 rigs operating today for us.
We plan to drop that to some 8 rigs or so during the second quarter.
And by the fourth quarter we plan to end the year with a number between 4 and 6 rigs likely to go to 4 but depending on what prices do we have some flexibility with our program and our service providers that we could end at 6.
We will enter next year 2013 at 4 to 6 and if prices follow the strip we may ramp up during 2013 and by '14 hopefully we'll be back at the 13 rig count in our Haynesville Shale play.
The Haynesville program in both DeSoto and Shelby like was mentioned earlier is being operated today with a more restricted rate flowback program than we've had before.
We've always been on a restricted choke program but you'll recall early within our development we were reporting high IPs.
Now we've come to a point where we're testing a restricted choke so we're not maxing out at about 13 million a day IP in our DeSoto Parish area about 16 million a day IP in our Shelby Area and what that's doing is keeping a higher pressure over time.
So we believe that though in Shelby within the first year you have what I'd call a crossover of volumes and you meet what you would have been before in Holly.
Gosh it's happening as quick as in the first couple of months.
So initial results early results are that we think this is the right thing to do.
In the Marcellus program we had planned at one point to go as high as 7 rigs and in November we cut that back to 5 and that would have entailed some appraisal drilling.
At this point it looks like it's going to go down to 3 rigs here very shortly we are at 4 today.
We're going to drill some 49 wells or spud some 49 wells there only 2 of which will be appraisal wells.
We're very focused on moving quickly into development in Lycoming County where we can get very good returns at $3.50 gas.
Other spending we're cutting way back in our other areas.
Permian we will maintain at least a 1-rig program.
There's a possibility we could increase that.
We do like the returns out there obviously with our liquid content.
And the last thing I'll note on this page about our budget is we do have as of 1/1/12 some $55 million of BG Carry remaining for our use.
We hoped that -- we are likely to use that up this year.
Cost reduction initiatives are very important to us.
We're talking about that on Slide 17.
Obviously we're reducing the rig count as I've mentioned focus on well development cost.
And Holly Haynesville we ended '11 at approximately $9.5 million drilling complete.
We've had some recent frac service bidding and we're confident and in fact just a fact we're going to go down some $600 000 because of some reductions in the service cost on the fracture stimulation side.
So our current most current AFEs that we signed are around $8.9 million.
Of course the team's very dedicated to meeting that target and then reducing it further.
In fact we would aspire to be at $8.5 million per well later this year and perhaps as low as $8 million in 2013.
It's not just the frac service contractors that are providing us some cost relief.
We're getting reductions across the service lines in our drilling program.
In the Northeast in the Marcellus area we've been spending about $6.5 million per well.
We're going to target $6.3 million and ultimately hope to get that down of course below $6 million.
A lot of that reduction is going to come as we continue to get experience there.
But a huge amount will come from building up water infrastructure and having the ability to move water more easily through the basin into our development areas.
Operating expense is a very big focus naturally.
We reviewed some uneconomic conventional wells.
And in fact we've shut in about 163 Cotton Valley wells at this point.
It's about 14% of our Cotton Valley portfolio.
It reduces our production by about 1.5 million a day net but it saves us more than $5 million of net expenses in a year.
So it's the right thing to do.
We're going to encourage others to look at that same thing and do what we do about gas demand and supply.
We're targeting some workover reduction.
And overall we hope to reduce our operating expense somewhere around 20% we're reducing -- we're releasing compressors we're managing our chemical programs we're looking at our saltwater disposal there's just no stones being left unturned.
East Texas/North Louisiana is detailed a little bit more on Slide 18.
Our operated shale production remains at around 1.2 billion a day gross dramatic growth from nothing in late 2008 to this level of production.
We have some 278 wells flowing to shale now about 50 or 55 of those are in the Shelby Area.
About 223 225 are in DeSoto Parish.
Our guys are focused on not just cost from service providers but what can we do in our drilling operations and managing our drilling days and I've talked about what our targets are.
I'll reiterate what Paul said we will drill about 70 wells in the Haynesville this year.
That's down dramatically from some 160 or 170 in 2011.
We're carrying in between as of 1/1/12 we had 18 or 20 wells being drilled.
We had several wells in the completion phase and then we had several quite a few wells 25-ish waiting on completion activity.
So we carried in 52.
Our overall completion total in 2012 is forecast to be around 81 in this play.
And so we'll likely carry out some 41 wells for completion in 2013 that actually are initiated in 2012.
Appalachia we're very happy with the success we're seeing in the Lycoming County area.
We've averaged between 5 million and 6 million a day from 3 600-foot laterals.
We've got 3 rigs operating there now.
We'll ramp that up.
That activity's going to be steady I mean.
We're producing about 110 million a day gross.
We expect that to be ever 200 million a day very shortly over the next 3 or 4 months.
We have a huge HBP position of our 56 operated wells and 10 OBO horizontal wells.
The big focus is going to grow in the Northeast.
We plan like I said to drill 49 wells.
I talked about that a moment ago.
Flip over to Slide 20.
The conventional assets remain a significant portion of our portfolio and about 70% or so of that comes from East Texas/North Louisiana.
The Vernon Field actually is the most prolific field in our Cotton Valley or conventional asset portfolio.
Permian about 21 million a day.
I talked about how much oil and how much NGL that entails.
Appalachia we've got about 16 million a day.
Across our whole conventional assets we're only going to drill for the full year with one rig out in the Permian.
Actually today we have 2 going.
We've got sort of a one-off farm out opportunity that we're testing.
We're very encouraged by some of the shells as we've drilled that well.
We'll have some results for you on that next quarter.
But overall in this portfolio our focus is on cost management and making sure that that rig provides cash flow to the corporation.
There's a significant inventory of drilling locations that would light up at that $6 gas.
I'm waiting for that.
But some 7 500 producing wells a lot of undrilled locations and then very importantly this might be an opportunity for some sort of a transaction because there's definitely some interest from private investors in joint venturing in this type of a portfolio.
And seeing what you can do to manage it and grow it while gas prices are depressed.
Slide 21 shows the Permian basin.
The big focus there remains Sugg Ranch 26 000 or so net acres.
It's a multiple sands but we really target the Canyon for starters.
Really really strong cash margin of $10 per Mcfe thanks to the oil.
And you can see the split on our production down in the right-hand corner of the page.
This asset's out in Irion County Texas.
Finally I'll note TGGT continues to operate very well at about 1.5 BCF a day of current production and the 3 facilities as Steve noted earlier are scheduled to start up in March.
I was down talking to them this morning.
That seems like a very doable schedule at this point.
We're also completing a treating facility down in our Shelby Area.
And what that's what's important about what's going to happen in Shelby not just from a TGGT perspective but we're actually as Doug noted in his opening comments drilling and have drilled and are now completing across 2 sections 14 new drilled wells that will supplement the 2 initial unit wells.
It's testing from 110 to 88 for spacing and testing both Bossier and Haynesville and we're going to flow that back likely in mid-to-late March if not sooner.
And we're going to -- there's going to be a huge effort in assessing the performance of that program.
It will bring home roughly 200 million a day or so of gas that will flow into TGGT.
So it's a significant task for us.
It's a significant opportunity for TGGT to flow more volumes.
We are as you noted in our earlier press release working on a potential sale of 1/3 of TGGT's equity interest to a third party.
Both BG and EXCO are aligned as the partners in the TGGT venture and going forward with that transaction.
We're in a diligent space now.
We've reduced our capital budget in TGGT.
It will be in the $70 million to $80 million range.
We've got a big focus as opposed to years past when we were really focused on equity equity equity and flowing equity volumes for EXCO BG.
Now we're looking at the opportunity to flow additional third party.
And there is some out there despite the reduction in rig count.
And the last thing I'll note is that TGGT was successful in increasing its credit facilities $600 million in January of '12.
And so TGGT between its cash flow and the facility will be self-funding.
Don't anticipate cash calls on EXCO from TGGT.
All right with that Mr.
Miller? I think bottom line is with cheap gas prices we've got everybody looking at everything.
We have a lot of partners that would like to do joint ventures and I think if you really look at the map you buy gas today and you can drill for oil even out on our Sugg Ranch at $100 oil we're getting 70% 80% range of return.
But I think there's going to be some opportunities to buy.
We are in discussions on that again.
This portfolio we've got 8 9 Tcf gas between proved probable possible at different prices.
We have thousands of potential locations and it just doesn't make sense to drill them today.
But the gas isn't going anywhere.
I mean we've got it we own it it's held by production and as the gas market firms up if it ever does we have plenty of assets around here to grow the company when it needs to grow.
With that I told everybody I said we do have plans and backup plans and backup plans to the backup plans that we're all working on together.
And I think it will from a shareholder's standpoint I think it will bear fruit during the year for '13 '14 and years to come.
With that I'm going to turn it over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> On acquisitions how big of a deal are you all willing and able to do based on what you're seeing out there? Well I hate to say it we're willing -- we believe we're willing and able to do a large one.
We just got turned down on a $3.5 billion deal and we had all the money raised with 2 joint ventures.
I think most of the deals that we're looking at right now will be smaller than that but there are 2 or 3 oil deals out there that are probably of $1 billion in size.
But I'd say the deals are all over the spot.
I'd say we're not looking for acreage.
Let's start with that.
We are looking for something that has production with it especially if it's oil where we could put in a 5-year hedge and manage that.
We do have guys that have got a lot of experience in the Permian so and we have a lot of contacts out there.
So we're working on some potential drill to earns and things like that.
So I'd say we're not afraid of anything.
And anything over about $100 million we're going to have to do it in a joint venture.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I guess that was my next question sort of thinking about say $100 million up to that $1 billion level sources of liquidity for that? Yes we have Research Division</strong> Is BG kind of on board for all these or? No no no.
It wouldn't be BG.
I'm not saying they wouldn't.
I'm just saying we have other third parties significant private equity guys including some of our shareholders have indicated interest in teaming up with us.
We're having those discussions right now.
I'm not going to disclose any names but we have been approached by several of them.
And we're working on that as we speak.
Research Division</strong> And you guys it sounds like are looking more on the private market side as opposed to corporate M&amp;A? Yes.
I can't think of one public deal we're working on.
Everything we are looking at today is private.
Some are individuals and quite a few of them are owned by a private equity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on speaking about the Permian can you all talk to the potential for the Cline Shale under your Sugg Ranch at this point? It's right in your range which was talking about yesterday? No no.
I get it.
I can't talk about it right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one question on the guidance for '12.
Does the LOE guidance it looks like roughly sort of $0.45 to $0.50 per Mcfe.
I know that changes through the year but does that contemplate these cost reduction initiatives you all are talking about already? Or could we see some more upside or foresee those costs come down once you implement that? Sure William it's a combination of both.
It does contemplate some of them.
Doesn't contemplate all of them and we've tried to kind of be cautious about when they do start showing up.
I think there's a good chance that our LOE comes in lower faster and to a higher degree.
And with the other thing that if we do a joint venture in the conventional and we put it over in what I call a parking lot the conventional we end up with the bulk of our production with LOEs under $0.20.
Keep in mind in conventional you're looking at $1.50 $2 an Mcf in cost because of the water.
I mean if we could shake that we'll have a hard time bringing that $0.08 a thousand operating costs.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And on the JVs you're contemplating so you're thinking about sort of typical half 58% interest or is it Well yes.
We're looking at all -- I mean we've got one where they want to buy it the whole thing and have us operate it with a promote.
I mean we're kind of interested in a 50:50 deal but all -- everything's on the table.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one final question as we're sort of around borrowing base redetermination season.
Is that something you've all have done yet or is that coming up in the Yes we haven't done it but we're sure prepared for it.
We have spent a lot of time with JPMorgan and all their engineers.
We have an annual bank meeting that we just had.
I think depending on gas we polled our top 9 banks and what we're trying to do is figure out what their price decks are.
And they seriously they range from $2.50 for this year up to $3.50 for this year.
We think if it comes in at $2.75 $3 like Steve said we think it'll end up around 1.4.
And I think that will be easy to do and we've had that indication.
But we have been in discussions since November.
Our meeting I think is set for April is that right? Yes.
Our meeting's set for April.
Any banks they have our reserves already and we're working our way through it and anybody that wants to come in and I'd go over it in detail the door is open.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious Doug.
At what gas price does activity resume? Our activity or the industry activity? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Your activity.
Well I think $4.
We have -- we're one of the few people that has spots where $4 really lights up a lot of our locations.
I think we have -- it depends on cost.
Like Hal said if we get our cost down to $8 million in Holly or below they start talking to us at $3 but I'm not sure we're going to do it.
I think the M&amp;A will drive where we'd go with our rigs.
But I think up in Lycoming $3 to $4 again depending on cost.
That's what we're working on right now.
Drilling costs frac costs location costs everything we're working on it.
And we're -- and they're being cooperative.
Those guys don't want to move out of the areas.
So between $3 and $4.
I don't know that we will go crazy even if gas went to $5.
I think our old history going back to Dakota and EXCO is your capital budget should be about 50% of your EBITDA and we're just at we're at 100%.
So we still have room to slow that down even if gas prices go up.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's something that BG's on board with has to be on board with or it doesn't matter if they're on board there? No no no.
It matters for sure.
And the reason we were so late in coming out with our second capital budget was we just met with BG this week and we're all totally on board.
And I think as prices go up they would love to see acceleration.
But I think right now anything under $6 they're very content with slow -- keeping it slow.
They know how much reserves we've got here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes so I guess reconciling that Doug if they're thinking $6 you're thinking $3 or $4 How do you think that works itself out in with drillbit activity? You didn't tell me when we -- you told me when we could.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I got it.
We can and so can BG at $3 to $4 but we probably won't until we all agree whether it's $5 or $6 or whatever.
I mean we don't have to drill.
This is all HBP.
I think BG believes like we do that gas is going to be very cheap for the next couple of years.
So we're going to be working on M&amp;A opportunities because these reserves aren't going anywhere.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when you talk about -- when you think about 2013 and I think you'd refer to growth in 2013 fairly confident you'll deliver it.
That is more premised on the M&amp;A you're shooting for this year? Well it depends on gas price but I'd say yes.
I'd say right now the way we have the rigs forecast with them coming down and then starting back up in 2013 we should have growth organically whether it's 5% or 10%.
But I think we're going to have a lot of opportunities on the M&amp;A side to add to that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And these JVs I guess that's the structure of how you're going to -- assuming [ph] more than your weight is to -- via pro mode [ph] and all the operating expertise you have at EXCO which is what I presume your PE partners want.
But what is a -- what do the PE partners get? I mean are they trying to do I guess buying gas cheap? Or do they want big businesses where you guys operate? It would seem to me they were fairly happy with having a liquid interest in EXCO.
So it goes from liquid to illiquid.
So any commentary on that and sort of what their angle is? I think you're seeing private equity guys with a lot of money that are really playing the gas market.
You just recently saw Samson done led by KKR.
There's rumors going around that Apollo's getting ready to buy El Paso again mostly gas.
We have been approached by several of those type guys that want to buy specifically conventional gas because of the low margin.
If we can get it bought and stack it a very slight movement in gas creates a huge rate of return.
So I think it's mostly a gas play.
But there are guys out there that are doing both.
We have been approached by guys that if we could find the right oil play would love to play.
But I would say by and large there's a lot of money being raised there's a lot of them willing to invest in gas plays just because people think we have 6 months to 2 years of cheap gas because of demand and you're starting to see some supply go down.
You're starting to see demand come back.
At least the power is probably a little sooner than I had expected but if we get a lot of gas power coming your gas prices could go up sooner than we hope.
I want to make some deals.
If we've got guys frothing at the bit to team up with us and I'd sure like to make a few deals.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the -- how do banks in the redetermination process how relevant is that PV-10 metric? $1.7 billion is about the depth that you have now on a $4 plus price tag and you're 96% proved.
Does that -- do they have a different metric they use and -- or are they looking for also non-proven stuff that you might have that those that show up and? Yes let's start with the banks mostly land on PDP.
We're one of the few companies that can say we have 74% of our proven reserves that are in proved developed.
That's the first thing they look at.
They use a forward curve not a flat curve.
They will give a minimal amount of credit for PUDs.
They use a slightly different discounting and a slightly different risking profile.
And but we look at them all the time.
But I mean they probably use a 9% discount and get on anywhere from 60% to 65% of that number will be the borrowing base.
And the hedges we have over...
Oh yes the hedges count.
Hedges do count.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the hedges are not in the PV-10 right? No.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And a final one for me can you just maybe explain it in more detail my expectation always is that as volumes come down some of the fix lifting cost the per unit numbers go up because there's element of lifting costs that are fixed.
Yet you're targeting very aggressive reductions in overall lifting cost.
So maybe some more detail on how that's being achieved? I'll start and Hal can jump in here when he wants.
If we did nothing and didn't operate the business right then that would probably happen.
But there's a lot of levers that you go out in the field and look at look at all your wellhead compressors and see if everyone of them need to be on look at all your activity around there.
So we're -- the volumes that are coming down are not the conventional volumes.
So the conventional per Mcfe isn't going to be moving around but that's exactly what you have to look at.
You have to look at the fixed costs and that's where we're going to be seeing a lot of the cost reductions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so compressors okay.
Any other sort of examples of that? The typical programs compressors saltwater disposals...
Saltwater disposal that's huge.
That's a huge component of what we're doing.
We're working with one of our service providers to get some more reliability in the particular saltwater disposal line that will bring down some of our trucking costs.
And we're also releasing coolers wellhead compression like you mentioned the gas jack type compression.
I think we've released about 100 of those.
And so a lot of that is just those are kind of fixed costs.
That was fixed costs though.
Right.
We're looking at every fixed cost there is and I think you're exactly right.
Over the past 20 years every component of LOE is partially fixed partially variable and we're looking at both.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question here on your completion schedule in the Haynesville.
You talked about going from 13 rigs to 8 to 4 to 6 and then deferring some completions.
Obviously your production is peaking.
It kind of it looks like here in the second quarter and then rolling over.
Are we going to see many completions in the second half of '12 or are most of those just being pushed to '13? Any color you have on that would be great.
Well the plan is obviously we're well down the path in the first quarter and a lot of our completion activity is tied up in our spacing test down in Shelby.
But we're going to drop down to a pretty -- well we're going to drop down to potentially one frac fleet equivalent for 2 to 3 quarters here.
So it's starting now.
And but yes you are seeing some increased volumes from 20 to 30 completions a quarter going down to 15.
But it's going to be at...
Right we can't.
We're not -- all we're doing is going down to one frac fleet we're just going to stage -- we're not delaying them to delay them.
They're going to -- if they stack up a little we'll get to them when we get to them.
It's not like we're going to stop completing at some point.
We're just going to we're going to lower the completion activity relatively early in the year irrespective of the rig count.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of your TGGT facility why did you guys decide to just kind of try to sell 1/3? Why not sell the whole thing? That's a good question.
We were approached -- we looked at doing an MLP.
We talked to several of the infrastructure funds.
They would all like to buy somewhere between 1/4 and 1/3 and the guy that we have signed up with was talking about 1/3.
And so we're under an exclusive deal to talk to him right now.
I'm not saying we wouldn't sell 100% but I think right now this particular partner could be a great partner.
And it's something that could be thrown.
And then if the gas prices got better and drilling activity picked up we would probably do an MLP.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your Marcellus activity you guys talked about moving to 3 rigs.
Are you guys planning on deferring any completions there in the Marcellus or should that be kind of relatively steady completion throughout the year? Well we drill mostly on pads up there as you know.
And so it will be cycling depending on when the pads are completely drilled because we do frac stimulator complete all those wells at one time.
So there'll be a little bit of a cyclical nature to it but overall it'll average out to be pretty steady.
It's bumpy out there because we drill 2 to 5 wells and then we complete them all at once.
So we might go 2 months before a pad gets completed.
But the schedules are done and they're working on it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But are you going to defer any completions like you are in the Haynesville? No.
No deferrals.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your Permian activity what formations are you targeting with your drilling program this year? Wolfcamp.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that going to be any horizontal activity or mostly vertical? Canyon Sand is where we're drilling too but we're seeing some pretty interesting results in the Wolfcamp.
And so that's what we're looking at right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that horizontal vertical or both? Vertical this time.
So far it's vertical but I wouldn't -- it wouldn't surprise me if we didn't have a couple of our geologists engineers who want to do a horizontal well.
The shale would be in the latter half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Hal when you speak to your Holly Haynesville costs falling to $8.9 million and potentially going down from here how much of this is secular via efficiency gains? And then how much is just cyclical because of low gas prices? And I guess in other words if we do get gas prices back to $4 or higher should we expect that once the contract you're signing here roll off the cost would just go back up? I think what is going on right now a lot of frac crews are around and the first 600 is pure frac job coming from a major hand.
Now does that go back up? Maybe it does maybe it doesn't.
It doesn't look like it does because they're all continuing to build more frac fleets.
I think additional down from $8.9 million could be a little more secular.
But we're looking at down to building pads.
We're spending $500 000 on a pad that we need to have as big as the unit.
Do we need that big of a pad? So everything is being looked at but I -- Hal give me your opinion? One thing we haven't been -- built-in here at all is our rig contracts are rolling off.
Some of those are relatively high from when we were chasing rigs when there was a huge demand for them.
We may have some opportunity for day rates to come down if we were to contract new rigs in a different cross [ph] environment in the future.
I think that there is definitely some overall reduction in costs that will be maintained simply because the number of service providers have gone up.
The fleets have gone up.
There's a lot of coal tubing units out there.
They're built in response to the high demand.
The service contractors seem to respond at the peak and start building things and in turn you end up a little bit oversupplied.
So I think some of this cost reduction will be sustainable.
We're also having some drilling efficiencies continuing to improve.
We continue to improve our days versus depth so we're seeing a lot of that.
And I will throw in another thing Brian is that we are taking a look at our well design.
We're looking at maybe changing our pipe program which would give us some sustainable savings as well.
We're looking at our completion design.
We've gone from intermediate strength proppant to virtually all of just the sand.
And that's obviously going to be sustainable cost reduction.
So again no stone left unturned.
We're looking at it what we can control and then what we can negotiate.
We're working on it very hard with our service providers.
Research Division</strong> And Doug I mean you've kind of spoken a little bit to this point but when you think very big picture with EXCO is more of a predominantly gas heat producer here.
How interested are you in seeing the gas cycle through the higher prices or when you think about whether it be participating in those JVs or in making acquisitions the need to meaningfully add oil properties to your mix beyond the Permian position? I think -- I get mixed reviews on that.
I think when -- we were all excited when we are going private back there.
Many of our partners were 100% totally behind us creating a company that accumulated all the gas we could as fast as we could.
And I was -- and everybody was kind of set in that.
But I think if you gone around a public company you've got to do the best for everybody and that may include looking at oil plays where we can take some of our expertise and be drilling and completing those wells too.
So if we're going to stay public which is not my desire then we have to look at oil also.
The ideal company is a company that's 50% oil 50% gas.
I think Devin [ph] is in perfect shape on that.
So the one thing I really missed this cycle is I have never seen the gas to oil ratio get out to 40:1 or 50:1.
And I just was shocked about that and it killed us.
And so I think that once we start exporting gas around the world here we are producing at $2.50 and we've got countries paying for $10 to $20 an Mcf once -- the one thing I missed was oil the worldwide commodity and gas is still captured in North America.
And the power guys better get all they can because once this starts getting shipped there's some people overseas who are going to pay a lot more than they're willing to pay.
Research Division</strong> And so if your preference is for not necessarily be a public company but if you are a public company then potentially a greater -- a more material percentage of oil say 50:50 as you mentioned is required where are you in the scale of I'm going to wait for what I want versus I can't -- we can't always have what I want? No no.
We're looking.
I can't guarantee we're going to be private so we're out looking at oil plays right now.
We have 2 significant ones that are probably pushing 10 000 barrels a day that we expect to be bidding on in the next 2 or 3 weeks.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
In the Haynesville as we look into '13 is there any continuous drilling clauses or take [indiscernible] from the gathering side that we need to be considering in terms of activity levels needed? No.
Well the only thing we do have is we have some firm transportation on other pipelines.
But we're producing enough.
That's not a problem.
But I mean all of our stuff in -- especially in the Holly area is all HBP.
We have stuff outside that we know we're going to have in proved reserves that is all HBP because of our Cotton Valley effort.
And then down in Shelby I'd say we're 90% HBP.
And we have one area where we have to spud a well I think every 180 days.
Two wells a year is the answer.
Yes that's it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then productions declining quarterly as you go along in the Haynesville.
So if you get to 4 to 6 rigs at the end of the year or I think you mentioned 4 rigs what kind of decline rate should we think about heading into '13 over '12? Flat to up maybe as high as 10% depending on the activity in '13.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> From Q4 exit levels? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Paul you mentioned that DD&amp;A are up [ph] high and you said a couple of things.
I wasn't sure was it high because of the curtailments and so your fixed costs jacked up your per unit [indiscernible] or was it because of the workover costs.
No it's maintenance expenses.
I mean it's -- if we're going to have $200 million $300 million a day curtailed in the field Hal and Mike can kind of talk to this but one of the things we did is we identified the wells that we're going to have to shut down and curtail for some period of time to do some maintenance on and identify those wells.
So while we have wells down let's go ahead and do some work on them.
So instead of -- it's just kind of accelerating field maintenance.
We had some wells that were partially scaled up and we clean those wells out.
We removed some packers so we could do some scale and have the chemical squeezes and some things like that.
One of the reasons we always have some level of shut in in the field is when you start getting to this kind of massive wells you're maintaining the wells.
So again if you're going to have to curtail some production why not do some work on the wells while you've got them curtailed? So accelerating the schedule.
Research Division</strong> So it wasn't less efficient fixed cost absorption.
It was just actually bringing in accelerating cost from future periods you would have to do anyway.
Primarily additional work we did.
Kind of same thing with tubing.
We tube up wells after a period of time after they've been brought on.
So again while you're -- if you're going to have to curtail volumes because of that incident and the ability to treat so you identify the ones that you can knock out 2 birds with one stone.
Research Division</strong> With respect to 2013 if you ramp up sort of exit rate let's say 10% it sounds like overall volumes for 2013 might be sort of flattish with 2012 with the 13-rig program? Is that what you're saying? Yes could be.
Let's get to '13 and see what happens.
But I mean tell me what gas prices are.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But when you talk about ramping to 13 rigs how many -- what gas prices are you thinking of? I think -- I mean our $4 -- our budget for 2012 assumes $4 gas.
So if we get to $4 gas you could assume us getting back to what we plan to do this year.
$5 dollar gas 20 rigs.
I mean that's kind of back of the envelope numbers.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry your budget for 2012 assumes $4 or is it 2013? No our original budget...
Our first -- 2 budgets ago.
The first budget we put out the $710 million assumed $4 gas and that was a 13-rig program in the Haynesville.
We're kind of looking at $2.53 gas for a 24-month period of time and this is what we think the appropriate level is.
But if gas gets back up we could be marching back up to 13 rigs.
Research Division</strong> And given that you're getting a lot of very positive earnings and revenue from their hedges and the relatively small amount of gas you have hedged next year you have sort of a hole you're going to have to address from a cash flow perspective? What are you contemplating in terms of how you fill that hole or how you adjust spending to meet that? We're going to stay within our cash flow a and b look everyday at the possibility of hedging.
We're within about -- we're close and there are some ideas that we're working on.
I mean keep in mind when you look at 2013 with just staying at 4 to 6 rigs in the Haynesville the completion level in there is going to be a much higher completion level than 4 to 6 rigs would imply but again you spend a lot of that capital in 2012.
So what I'm getting at is 2013 capital is going to be reduced from this level just with the plan we've laid out so...
We've got flexibility and we look at if gas were to go above $4 would we do some hedging? Probably.
And if that happens we buy and reserve rigs.
Your next question comes from the line of Mario Barraza with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Just following up on the Permian here.
Are the horizontal wells that you could potentially drill in the back half is that included in your current CapEx guidance? No.
Maybe one.
I think we have one in there and the second half out.
Yes.
But there's no assurance we'll do it but it would be [indiscernible].
We have options.
There's been some activity around us and we're monitoring that and there's been some pretty good results in the neighborhood.
And so if we can get our confidence level up we might drill one.
We don't have to.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And also you guys mentioned -- did I hear correctly in your remarks that you currently have 2 rigs operating in the Permian? That's correct.
Inc.</strong> What is the second one related to? Was it a farm out you said? And is that going to drop off? Yes.
The farm out is the one-well drill and then we'll assess it and decide what we do from there.
Inc.</strong> So you could add a second rig this year potentially? Oh yes.
I'd say we're leaning towards it.
Inc.</strong> And the 70% to 80% IRRs you're talking about is that pretax? Yes.
Inc.</strong> How does that compare right now to say the prices? You'd said as well that in the Marcellus you had a largely -- your position's largely HBP correct? Yes.
Inc.</strong> So why not shift more capital dollars if you're getting $10 an M in cash margin here? The 2 shales are something that we're also working to try to figure out especially we do have some HBP obligations up in Lycoming but the rates of return are acceptable.
And I think what we're doing is we're looking -- we're trying to get all of the detail out in the Permian that we can get.
And if we found that we could spend $100 million there would we take it away from one of the 2 other areas? The answer is yes.
I think we're spending $40 million or $50 million there right this year.
I mean the other thing to keep in mind is what we're quoting on those rate of returns are those -- the vertical Canyon Sand wells.
I mean it's order of magnitude just -- it's not a $5 million well.
These are not big wells.
They just make a lot of money the rate of returns aside.
The thing about it is we couldn't put 10 rigs out there.
We'd be out of locations in a month.
Inc.</strong> No no I totally understand.
I mean it's not a massive position.
Right.
Well depending on what happens with the testing we're doing this year things could change.
The people have brought up the right questions.
The Wolfcamp is potential decline is potential.
We're looking at them.
Your next question comes from the line of Agura Avavar [ph] with Nomura.
Most of the questions have been answered.
I just wanted to reconcile 2 things.
With regards to the extension and discoveries in your release you guys added 201 Bcfe.
But I was just trying to reconcile it to the other disclosure you had where you said you added 379 Bcfe to your proved reserves? I'll take that one it's Paul.
The proved developed is -- also includes moving PUDs that were booked in prior years as we drilled them into the producing category.
So we added new proved developed from wells that were not booked.
We moved PUDs into proved developed that were booked before and some component of that falls into the 200 Bcf.
So the difference is really just...
[indiscernible] already proved that we moved into proved developed.
In our 10-K that we'll file I think on Monday we put out our proved undeveloped walk-forward and I think it will make a little more sense when you see that.
But when you book proved reserves you're sometimes booking PUDs and sometimes booking new proved developed.
So the 310 Bcf we think it's the most relevant one because at the end of the day that's the one that's actually creating cash flow right? That's what it cost me to put a well online and produce.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Pirello [ph] with Pendulum [ph].
Real quick on the stock repurchase program is there any updates there? No.
Well first of all we're restricted and I would say we have a board meeting next week and that will be a discussion point.
But I would say as of right now I would tend to not although it becomes a spirited debate.
It's awfully cheap.
And so I'm sure we have several board members that will want to buy.
And it depends on the deals that we have.
We'll kind of go over the array of deals that we're looking at.
I sure wouldn't want to spend $200 million on stock even if it's half price if we could make a $1 billion acquisition out in the Permian.
Okay.
In terms of -- I know you said a couple of times that you would love to see this as a private company.
We know the price of natural gas has come down a bunch.
What do you think based on your guys last offer of $18.50 would be a good starting point? What do you think the value is today in your guys view of the company? Here's my only problem.
I have a number but I can't tell you.
The lawyers have been choking on me.
I mean I've got an idea what it's worth and I think it's worth more than it's trading at.
Can I say that? Less than last year.
But it is -- you're right about one thing it is down in value from a year ago.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Doug just in terms of the M&amp;A discussion so strategically what are you looking to do for EXCO? Tell me if we're public or private.
Research Division</strong> Let's first assume public.
Then we'll be looking at diversifying into oil which is exactly what we're doing right now.
I'd say the M&amp;A group that we have here is looking at probably 10 deals 2 of which will probably bidden on in the next week or 2.
They are oily.
And so if we're going to stay public the goal would be to get to a 50:50 mix.
We're a long way from a 50:50 mix being at 5% today.
So I'd like to make some progress this year to get it up to 10% 20%.
Research Division</strong> So as a public company would you be pursuing additional gas assets? Yes I think so.
I think I'd probably turn around the oil markets if we start buying oil.
But I think right now with the joint venture partners that have approached us we'd be a fool not to continue to buy gas at these prices.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds that right now you're not very close to doing something especially on the gas side.
And you're going to bid on a couple oil-weighted assets over the next few weeks is that correct? That's true.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of...
But we're looking at all of them.
I'd say -- I can't think if we don't have -- We do not a bid ready to go on the gas asset.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of taking the company private you're making references to that here.
So do you expect that between now and year end you might try another -- take private transactions? No.
I just wish we'd gotten private.
I would love to be private so I wouldn't have to do all this stuff.
I'm not very good at it.
But we have no intention or nothing's on the table to go private.
Now I have been approached by some big private equity guys saying "Would you consider going private?" And I'm still limping from the last one.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the balance sheet so with any kind of M&amp;A you're thinking about does it not concern you -- I mean is the balance sheet at a comfortable level now? Do you feel comfortable taking the debt up higher? Or do you actually think the balance sheet needs to get a little bit stronger? Well I think we have a lot of opportunities to create additional liquidity pipeline being a main one.
Do we sell 1/3 do we sell 1/2 do we sell at all? All that is unrestricted cash if we do a joint venture on the conventional whether we get $500 million or $1 billion how it would all go down.
I see a pathway if we really wanted to pay all our debt off in the next 3 to 6 months.
So we have a lot of opportunities and we're working on all of them to create enough liquidity to do what we're talking about.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly Paul what was the exit rate you gave for year-end '12? Our guidance shows 445 million to 465 million a day.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Ferris with Yankee Cents Financial.
I have a couple of questions.
Is the steep reduction in the natural gas price accelerating speaking of Boone Pickens conversions to -- on the truck engine industry and maybe -- and power production? Yes.
Boone's deal he's been working on it since '08 and it was going slow.
But I'd say here in the last 6 months it's really accelerated because he said the hell with the government.
They're not going to help him and I think he's taking them out himself in clean energy and they've made some deals.
They're putting in gas stations right now.
It works for sure.
We converted -- we have our own gas stations.
We converted 53 of our field trucks and it pays out without any tax.
So it for sure works and at these prices it really does work.
And the problem is I can't go to St.
Louis or Williamsport from here.
I can only go out a hundred miles and come back.
We need gas stations and Boone's working on it right now.
So it will accelerate.
They have -- if you look at Clean Energy they have a million announcements on guys that are reviewing it some major fleets out in California.
I think waste management's 100% on it.
Several of the other companies are signing up.
So it for sure works.
That's coming but I think the other part the power side we knew they were building gas power plants and shutting down coal but we've had 3 or 4 of them in here looking for long-term contracts.
I don't think any of them have hedged.
But they're for sure using it it's cheaper than coal right now.
It's just a math problem.
But it's damn sure cleaner too.
I was just going to ask if there's any intel on the NATGAS Act but I think you answered that question.
Yes.
I think Boone has always had intel on it but he's been working on it since '08.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Aydin with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions were answered.
I've got 2 or 3.
Doug what is your tolerance level in terms of leverage assuming you stay public and assuming you're going to do like 15% to 20% oil-based company? What is your leverage tolerance in terms of your balance sheet? Historically when you get 2:1 I start getting a little bit nervous.
2:1 not on EBITDA multiple on an asset value.
I consider -- we look at our total proved.
But I think you've got to look at all things.
We're comfortable here but we're starting to approach what I consider the high side.
So we're going to be looking at some deleveraging right now before we do any acquisition.
But keep in mind if we did an acquisition that had a bunch of PDP with it which is the only thing we're looking for we put a hedge in and include that in our debt schedule.
If you're getting around how are we going to raise any equity Jack the answer is...
Research Division</strong> No I'm not getting around that.
I just want to get an idea what kind of a JV-type structure you might have in order not to leverage your balance sheet.
Yes.
I'd say if we -- the right -- some of the deals we're looking at is where we put up 10% until they get a certain rate of return and then we go up to 25%.
Research Division</strong> Now the other question I have for you is this.
Since your partners and let us see major shareholders are interested in natural gas and they're trying to buy natural gas you've got a reserve base of 8 to 9 TCF in Europe what is a better asset than your assets? So are there negotiations over there that they might -- you might be willing to give them some of your assets for certain kind of money? We haven't done that.
We're not willing to -- right now I think the company as it's constructed is pretty solid.
But I don't think we're going to be selling any of our gas assets to one of our shareholders just because they want them.
That hadn't been discussed and that would be a challenge.
I think the lawyers would have a field day with that one.
Research Division</strong> And the other question.
You do have a lot of acreage in Appalachia held by production on conventional basis.
Are you guys doing anything to see what is at the lower level? And that's also the question to you had some acreage in the 3 counties.
If anything are you doing anything over there? Yes I'd say in 3 counties we've had some recent pretty good success in our program.
It's all HBP so we're probably going to sit on it.
We have some acreage down in West Virginia that all of a sudden some other operators are approaching us and now there's a pipeline being built.
We're watching what they're doing.
We don't have to be in a hurry because it's all HBP.
So we're monitoring what's going on around us and our guys out there are doing a good job.
We don't have to be in a hurry at $2 gas.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Flinker with Flinker &amp; Company.
If you're going to spend your EBITDA on CapEx how do you pay interest? We have $100 million cash reduction in our restricted cash balance.
Howard it's Paul.
So we have $155 million of cash at year end in restricted cash.
We've got over I think we're about $35 million or so of cash.
And that essentially reflects a quarter's worth of activity with 22 rigs running as we go down in our rig count.
We'll be at the $50 million restricted cash balance.
So there's the $100 million.
Howie I consider interest a part of capital so we're going to figure out how to drill and live within our budget.
And part of our capital budget Howie is $25 million capitalized interest the way we have to account for it.
So part of it is already being paid for in the capital budget.
Second as to arithmetic different people have different definitions of 20% return.
How do you -- what's your arithmetic on 20% return if you had $3 or $4 gas? It's a pretax rate of return running the $8.5 million well cost using our tight curve running flat-out gas prices at low levels.
What our net gas price is and when it comes out.
We're using pretax because we have another asset in here that we consider very valuable.
That's a $1.5 billion NOL.
And pretax pre-interest and pre-D&amp;A is that the way you do it? The D&amp;A -- the DD&amp;A as you consider it is really included in your well cost on the front end.
So you've accounted for it with the capital investment on the front end.
And your calculation of profits you don't subtract D&amp;A to get to the 20%? No because you're taking it all out on the front end.
Finally if you're looking at oil and the seller of oil knows it's selling for $108 a barrel today or in the North Sea around $123 why is he going to give you such a bargain below the $108 or $123 adjusted? They're not.
That's what's -- they're absolutely not.
So you're just looking where the prices are...
We're looking but the thing about it is I think the premium you pay you're paying the market for the PDP whatever it is it is the current strip.
There's different discount rates and different risking on that.
The question is how much do you pay for the acreage and the opportunity to continue and that's where our challenge is.
It's a large challenge.
It's a large challenge no question.
The price is no secret today.
Exactly.
It's a challenge and we have to have a high confidence level.
And in some cases we're talking to people that only have 2 rigs running.
And if you accelerate it you might be able to make more money and we can move capital from the Haynesville out there if we could find the right deal.
Obviously we haven't found the right deal yet or we would have done it.
I was just wondering because the price of gas could be $5 and the price of oil $50 and then where would you be? Down the s******.
Your next question comes from the line of David Neuhauser with Livermore Partners.
I'm kind of disappointed actually because I think the last caller it sounded like you guys actually don't have a crystal ball.
Right.
Well put this way I think if we went around the room and included you and said what gas was going to be a year from now we'd have 10 different answers.
In oil I guarantee I can get oil down.
All I've got to do is go buy some.
I guess that's mainly question.
I mean a lot of people were touching on the same thing which was if you're looking to get more oily at this point and you're looking to do an M&amp;A transaction what basins are you focused on besides the Permian? And again what is the pricing on those assets at this point in time? I mean like I say we're in $108 oil and there's a lot of premiums going around now for PDP.
So are you looking more at it opportunistically where maybe there's a land order [ph] that essentially doesn't have as many rigs or they're under duress? Or kind of what's your strategy there? The answer is yes.
After we decided not to go private we had 35 people here do a study on all 30 what we considered shale or unconventional plays including up in Canada because we knew we would be looking at a lot of them.
We're looking at deals in the Bakken.
We're looking at deals in the Mississippi line.
We're looking at deals in the Eagle Ford West Texas we're looking at and it makes the most sense to us as of today.
But we're looking at 4 5 deals in the Utica too.
Because we're a driver and wedge away from the Utica.
So the answer is we're looking at all of them.
All of them have different math problems and we want to know what we're doing because I think we're more likely to see downticks in oil than we are to see major downticks in gas.
And then also you touched on -- obviously most of the assets here are gas and you were looking at specific assets in acreage.
But again if you located a potential target an actual company whether it be public or private that of course had a mixed that weren't all oil or NGLs but they did have a mix but they were in -- their profile was such or maybe they were in distress where maybe a full out acquisition would make sense is that something that's on the table or is that essentially what you're now focused on? I wouldn't call it on the table but we evaluate 9 to 10 public companies every quarter because they have assets that fit with ours.
We are continually doing that.
We don't own any of the stock.
If the opportunity came up where they were trading at a big enough discount whether they were in distress or not we would have no problem talking to them.
I mean we're looking at public and private.
And then also just touch on again with -- everyone's talking about leverage and you're talking about acquisition and you're also talking about reducing the capital program and make sure it's in line with your EBITDA.
If you find an opportunity you bid on an opportunity you close an opportunity in the next few months does that essentially mean you're going to drive home further crystallization of the BG joint venture and bring cash forward to help pay for this acquisition and to continue to pay down debt and fund CapEx? Or like I said are you willing to take on further leverage if there was a strong asset that you could see sort of pay for in the next -- in the short run? We're interested in doing deals.
We are -- part of our plan is to reduce the existing debt and create cash so we can do deals.
We don't have any deals that we're doing.
And if we could create enough I would love to have $500 million to $1 billion of cash available to do deals.
That's going to take a transaction in the pipeline and it may take a transaction on some of our conventional and so we're working on those.
We're not going to issue any more equity.
And if we went up in debt it would be because we had additional PDP hedged assets.
And the banks would be very willing to do that if we have the right assets.
And capital would more likely be a shift not necessarily an increase [indiscernible] Yes I mean we're not going to -- we don't want to be overlevered.
We've done -- I'm looking around the room we have about 500 years of experience and almost everybody here was around during the '80s except Paul and cash is king.
You answered my question.
My point was that you're going to sell assets if you find the right opportunity or you'll look to maybe lever up a little bit but that's only because you're going to bring some PDPs online with the acquisition.
There you go.
If I did -- If I answered that was good.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Heidbreder with Millennium.
Some questions on TGGT.
First what is the -- I'm sorry if I missed some of this earlier.
What is the current debt level at TGGT? $450 million.
Yes roughly.
And what is the 2012 CapEx budget? $75 million -- it's about $75 million to $80 million.
In the end they did about $120 million of EBITDA.
Keep in mind that 2011...
They have positive cash flow in there so that will be going down.
Our guidance of their EBITDA is about $135 million this year.
They have $465 million of debt at year end $30 million of cash and a $70 million $80 million capital budget.
The $75 million is 100% basis? Yes all those numbers are 100%.
And then why -- on your Slide 13 why is Q4 EBITDA going down from -- why is Q2 peaking? Is that just -- is that reflecting your own volumes or is there something else going on? Yes keep in mind out of the 1.5 bcf a day that's going through there 75% 80% of that is us and BG.
So as our capital program comes down it affects throughput.
Okay.
You're saying there's like a couple of hundred or 300 to 400 of third-party volume.
What is the potential for third-party volume? We're working on it.
Ever since we did the joint venture with BG we bought twice going out as we started in '09.
Our operating guys we overbuilt our pipes with the idea that we were going to go after the third parties.
And then Chambers and his guys are coming in with 20 million a day wells so we brought them back.
Then when we went down to the Sabine trough we again overbuilt our pipes and all of a sudden we started making 25 to 30 million so we brought them back.
But we have just recently hired some people and gone out and just signed up our first 2.
I think we have a deal with Encana and one with El Paso.
Now that we're shutting the rigs down I know you can't go out and make too much production so we do have some available space so we're out doing that right now.
And there are some opportunities but most everybody that has been drilling in there is -- has already got a pipeline connection.
What would the max capacity on your pipes be? 2.5 to 3 Bcf a day.
Easily.
So you guys are running roughly 50% now or somewhere in that range? Yes.
We're running pretty full in a lot of areas.
They keep telling me it's 2.5 to 3 Bcf a day but that means we've got gas going 2 ways.
Understood.
Well I guess the last part is you guys are laying off rigs.
Pretty much everyone else is off of laying off rigs.
When is Haynesville overall supposed to peak in production and start falling? Is it -- this year isn't it? I think it's already peaked.
It's already peaked.
Stay tuned.
I don't know what it was whether it was 5 or 7 depending on which analyst you talk to but I guarantee it's coming down today versus yesterday.
Chesapeake's moved out.
Encana's moving out.
Everybody is slowing down.
It's already peaked.
But that implies for TGGT going forward that until gas gets back up above $4 EBITDA's going down not up? Probably right.
But the thing about it is our production we think will be flat '13 over '12.
And I think we're going have some opportunities with some of these third parties.
We're already signing them up.
We've only been out there a month.
No question.
I mean there's a lot of third parties.
Keep in mind the original system we had was Cotton Valley system and there are guys drilling some Cotton Valley wells because of liquids.
I mean there's opportunities out there.
I can't expect the cash flow there to be flat next year and start up.
That's what I'm trying to understand.
I mean if everyone is shipping gas a day on their completed wells they have to have something they're shipping it on? Exactly.
If production is actually starting to go down that's going to free up net capacity not create more demand.
Except there's 6 million acres in this play.
We cover about what 100 000 of it.
So the play is going down there's no question but there are opportunities.
We have BP on our line.
They're going to be drilling some Cotton Valley wells.
The other thing that advantages us on TGGT is the number of outlets that we have from our system.
And you have some people that are flowing now only to one outlet where they're getting a disadvantaged price.
We're going to present some advantages in that regard as well.
Yes we've got 7 interstate pipes.
So we'll be out talking to everybody and there's a lot of opportunities there.
We're an alternative to a lot of different operators.
The other thing to think about is when you're looking at big picture 7 Bcf a day going down that doesn't mean that there aren't wells still being turned on and hooked up within that number.
So you're zeroing in on a very small area of the Haynesville and you're looking at activity around you and seeing -- a couple of wells mean a lot basically in this environment.
And your buildout is in the core so presuming that's what survives and drives the longest.
Exactly.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line Geoff Hulme with Porter.
LLC</strong> Two questions one related to several of the previous questions.
I mean maybe at a really high level could you just try to bridge the perception gap of how you see opportunity in doing selective M&amp;A on the chassis of the EXCO entity as we see it today? And just maybe to address everybody's kind of surprise about the opportunity and EXCO as a vehicle to take advantage of it? I don't understand the question.
I mean for the last 25 years whether we're [indiscernible] or EXCO we have been mostly M&amp;A.
And the only time we've really been more than 10% to 20% is since the shales showed up we just accidentally -- we've always been an M&amp;A.
We look at 500 deals a year as you know and we typically do 5 of them.
Geoffrey are you asking about the financing side of it? LLC</strong> No just how you see the opportunity.
I think maybe that's the answer.
I mean the history and maybe not everybody is familiar with that and just how you see kind of -- I think people are struggling getting from point A to point Z.
People are struggling or you're struggling? LLC</strong> No I'm not struggling.
I'm struggling with other things.
Okay okay.
I feel like we're on a stage and I'm talking to an audience here.
When you have prices this low Geoff this is the time to be looking to buy.
It's just a matter of opportunity.
If you can buy some assets whether gas or even oil there's a lot of people out there that have oil properties that don't necessarily think this prices at this level are sustainable.
So you've got to look at it from the seller's side as well as the buyer's side.
And so this is just a really good time to be out looking.
There's a chain and we're kind of in the middle of the chain.
There's a lot of guys that accidentally had a ranch out in West Texas that 20 years ago had a Sprayberry well.
And now all of a sudden they're finding deeper stuff and they don't want to spend $200 million drilling wells for the next 10 years and so some idiot like us might have that interest.
And the same thing on the sales side.
There's -- larger producers sell assets that don't hit their radar and they may hit ours.
This has been going on for a long time.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And just related to that also in a different arrangement what does EXCO -- you've talked about these large pools of capital and maybe they're interested in conventional or other things and maybe they've approached you.
I'm just curious if you could just tell us what EXCO brings to the table to the money side and why that's -- what you had that's attractive to them? Well I don't know.
I answer the phone is one of the things.
We have a history of doing a lot of deals.
We have a history of doing some pretty good deals and good-sized deals.
We have a history of doing conventionals and we have a history of being able to operate.
And a lot of guys other than that there's no reason for them to call.
Your last question is a follow-up from Alex Heidbreder with Millennium.
On the CapEx budget and on well completions in the Haynesville you guys have $272 million for drilling and completion and I think your press release shows 19.9 net wells drilled 26.3 net wells completed is that right? And so -- I'm trying to -- how did -- that shows 13.7 per drilled well 10.3 per completed well.
How does that math match up with the $9.5 million going to $8.9 million? I'm sorry what -- you stated a lot of numbers.
Are you talking about fourth quarter spending? This is 2012 outlook.
You guys talked about setting $272 million on drilling and completion.
That's right.
And $285 million or $296 million total on the Haynesville/Bossier? Yes that's right.
And then on Page 7 of the press release you guys talked about completing -- or drilling 19.9 net wells and completing 26.3 net wells? Right.
It's really a timing of -- I mean you're drilling all those wells you've got the capital coming in from last year to complete the wells that you're bringing in.
A lot of it is just capital accrual timing versus the exact activity.
Even if we give you -- put the entire completed [indiscernible].
Let's take this offline.
Would you mind if we just take this offline where I can actually get some details in front of me and walk you through it? At this time there are no further questions in the queue.
I turn the call back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks.
Again this is Doug Miller and that was a very interesting Q&amp;A and we're glad everybody had the questions.
It has been a challenging year as most of you know and I hope we answered everybody's questions.
If not feel free to call us.
We have plans for the rest of this year and we have plans going into '13 and '14.
And we have a great asset base and we plan to exploit it.
With that meeting adjourned.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining the EXCO earnings release conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to EXCO Resources Inc.
First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to Doug Miller Chairman.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Before we get started I'm going to have Doug Ramsey read our -- whatever you call it.
What do you call that thing? Disclaimer.
Disclaimer.
So go ahead Doug.
All right thanks Doug.
I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategy market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to Pages 24 and 25 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as the cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Okay.
Welcome everybody to our call.
We have a slide show that is on our website that we'll be going over today.
With me today I have 10 people lawyers all our financial guys and our operating guys.
And we're going to be going over in some detail our quarter and we'll be sticking with you through -- as long as you want as far as Q&amp;A goes.
Just to get started.
We have been -- with gas prices going down -- I could sometimes feel like we were driving across Kansas going 90 miles an hour a year ago with gas prices high and working as hard as we can.
And here about beginning of the year we ran into a school zone.
And so I think we've had to figure out how to go slower and we're doing it and I think we still have guys in our industry speeding.
So some of them are starting to get tickets.
With that -- what we've been doing is we have been ramping down and cutting our capital budget.
We do believe that you run a company an oil and gas company inside your cash flow.
We've been doing that.
We've cut our capital expenditures 3 times since our November capital meeting.
We'll continue to do so as gas prices stay cheap.
But with that we report 533 million a day of production.
In most times that would be good.
But it's mostly gas so that was bad.
We did have a spacing test in Shelby that was very successful.
Hal will go over that a little later.
Our TGGT our treating has resumed.
We did have a borrowing base redetermination it did go down as we had forecast.
It's $1.4 billion versus $1.6 billion.
It was voted on and signed I think last Friday.
Is that right? We started adding some hedges for '13 through '15.
But a little bit -- I think a lot of people have criticized us for not moving fast enough into the oil side.
This has been a gas company.
It was set up to be a gas company.
We're still looking at gas transactions but we do have a small oil property that has been successful.
We've been running 1 rig over there and we are now in evaluation on how to get into it on both the Wolfcamp and the Cline.
There has been some recent results in our neighborhood over there.
We are drilling a vertical test doing some coring as we speak.
With the idea that if we can get it figured out we would bring another rig in there later on this year.
And on top of that we have quite a bit of -- across the Cotton Valley and even in West Texas.
We do have some NGLs.
We're going to start reporting them separately but we have 2 deals we're working on in the Cotton Valley that'll separate the NGLs.
I did note -- however I do note that we have a couple of thousand barrels a day of oil and maybe 1 300 barrels of NGLs out in West Texas.
But we're going to start separating that in the Cotton Valley and expect to see that -- start reporting next quarter.
What's going on in the industry -- we've got too much gas.
We've got too many independents that have been outspending their capital for the last 5 years.
And the equity markets and the capital markets have allowed them to do it.
So it is coming back to haunt all of us right now.
We do have an abundance of gas but I think what you're going to see -- and I've recently seen a couple of really good reports coming out I think Joe Allman [ph] did one of them and somebody else talking about how fast the decline is occurring.
I believe that you're going to see at least in the Haynesville maybe a 2 Bcf year-over-year decline with what's going on out there.
Rigs got up to -- what what is called? 186 down to around 50.
And you can really see the declines.
A lot of people have just quit over there.
We're slowing down and we're willing to quit but we're taking it at a proper pace.
And if we have to quit we will.
But right now I think we have 7 rigs 8 rigs running.
7 as of this morning and we're prepared to go to 4 if gas prices stay where they are.
But I think you're going to see supply coming down faster than anybody expected.
And I think -- the other side of that is I think you're going to see demand going up a little faster than anybody expected.
We're seeing a lots of power getting turned on gas.
I think we've had a lot of power companies in here looking for long-term supply.
We have not made a deal and will not at these prices of course.
But I think you're starting to see some of the results coming out of the EIA and others January February maybe 5 to 7 Bcf a day for power.
But I think that's going to expand.
I think you'll start seeing it in the second half of the year.
There's just a lot of activity going on but I think as people quit drilling dry gas it's going to come down a lot faster.
And finally up in the Marcellus I saw where Anadarko's cutting a lot of rigs Talisman's leaving.
So that has been a boon for the industry.
People are going a little bit too fast up there.
Including us.
But we're down to 3 rigs out there.
We have 850 000 acres in the Appalachia a couple of hundred thousand in the Marcellus.
And we're at 3 rigs and prepared to go to fewer.
We have had some interesting results here recently on an area that I think everybody gave us 0 credit including us.
And Hal will talk about that a little later.
But again where supply and demand -- you're starting to see 15 16 -- you're starting to see some potential export.
And I think everybody thinks that gas is not going to go up until then.
I'm not in that camp I think you're going to start seeing some direction maybe as soon as the second half of this year.
I'm hoping it stays days down because we are actively seeking some acquisitions in the gas market.
We have been approached by a lot of potential partners to participate with us.
There are a lot of deals in the market today.
We are reviewing them.
We would not drill for the gas if we bought it.
The 3 deals that we bid on this year were all oily.
We missed all 3 of them.
One of them we got real close on again they were joint ventures with third parties.
But Jacobi's been here and he's busier today than he's ever been.
We think there's probably $40 billion or $50 billion worth of assets on the market today both oil and gas.
And there is plenty of money and we've been approached domestic partners and more recently some foreign partners that are interested in buying dry gas in the U.S.
because they expect to be exporting to their own country.
Monetization I think we've got criticized on the TGGT a little.
It's an asset that is pretty much fully developed with our drilling program right now.
So we did sign a 45-day exclusive with an infrastructure fund.
We did get an offer for 1/3 of it from them but during that process we received a lot of indications from strategics.
We have reviewed that and we are entertaining and discussing with 3 today and we have 2 more coming in.
The possibility of selling 100% of it.
BG is on board and so we continue that process but I think right now we're leaning towards selling 100% of that instead of just selling 1/3.
We continue in negotiations on our conventional joint venture that we've discussed.
As recently as yesterday we have shared some information with a partner.
I expect something on that.
We'll either happen with them or backup that we have 2 or 3 other people that have shown an interest.
I expect something to happen there within the next 30 days.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Steve and I'll get back to you later.
All right I'm going be -- my remarks will be starting on Slide 5.
We'll talk about kind of the highlights of the quarter and particularly I want to spend a little more time on cost and then Hal will also spend some time there.
Obviously I mean we -- the production level that we're at right now is pretty much right on our guidance.
It's what we expected and of course it's a big increase over last year.
And it's flat pretty much flat with the fourth quarter.
The average realized price obviously at $2.78 versus $4.40 is a problem.
Gas only is $2.45.
So that of course makes things difficult.
But our hedges have been working and our revenues including the cash settlements are flat between years and so that's been a plus for us from a cash standpoint.
Direct operating cost G&amp;A all of the cost and we will talk about them in more detail in just a minute.
But they are trending downward both in absolute dollars on a Q1 to Q4 basis.
They're down by -- operating cost are down like 5% between quarters and all those costs are trending down and which we're very pleased with and which is -- it has to happen in this kind of environment.
Our adjusted EBITDA our cash flow from operations also are pretty much in line given the fact that the gas price is lousy and we're pretty much in line with what we had thought -- of where we thought we would be.
In our adjusted net income line there are 2 things that are not included in adjusted net income.
One is the saving cash write-down of $276 million on an a pretax noncash write-down.
We used the 12-month average at the beginning of the month.
So March 1 of '11 -- I mean '12 back through the April period.
And that was $3.73 on gas $98.15 on oil.
So that's why we had the write-down.
We would expect that if the gas doesn't strengthen we'll have additional write-downs.
It's just the way the math works on the full cost pool.
In addition to the write-off on the full cost pool we also have an impairment of our -- of some assets at TGGT and it affected our equity net income in that entity.
It doesn't have any impact on our EBITDA et cetera because they're not included in EBITDA.
But the write-down -- we have some temporary -- we've started out with temporary units to restore the production in the plant that -- where there was an explosion back in -- about a year ago.
And we ramped that temporary unit construction up pretty heavily.
But this quarter we decided that the permanent facilities out there were not damaged one of them was not damaged very much at all and so we're going to put that unit online probably in the next few months 6 months or so.
And as a result we didn't really need all of the temporary treating capacity that we have.
And the treating capacity that we got online right now we're not going to need for very long.
So we went ahead and took a write-off in the first quarter in the equity income line.
All right let's look at Page 6 and let's talk a little bit about the rig count and Doug has covered it pretty well.
We've got a couple of more rigs that are just coming off contract by their own terms here pretty soon and those will -- if prices dont firm we're going to let -- we'll let those go.
We might even let an additional rig go.
We're expecting to be in the 5 -- 4 to 5 in the Haynesville at the end of the year and 8 or 9 overall.
We could cut back in Marcellus if we need to from a cost standpoint.
But it could go up in the Permian yes.
That's right exactly.
As far as the drilling costs are concerned we have had good news in that area in the Haynesville.
We were quite around $9.5 million at the -- during the fourth quarter.
We're down to about $8.5 million now and we feel like about the end of the year we'll be down to $8 million.
We've had a lot of cooperation from the supplier of our drilling services of our frac services et cetera and I'll get into a little bit more detail on that  on the next slide also.
But we're very pleased with where we're headed.
We need to get lower obviously with this kind of prices but at least we're on the right track.
As far as expenses are concerned you'll see down at the bottom I'm just comparing the Q1 of '12 with Q4 of '11 good progress in all areas there and on a -- both an absolute dollar basis which is what's in this table.
But also on a per Mcf basis good progress.
So we're pleased with where we're headed on cost.
Over on Slide 7.
I'll talk a little bit more about the drilling completion reductions.
We've been able to obtain a great improvement in our frac cost from $220 000 a stage down to $165 000 and that's about $600 000 per well which is a real jump start to getting those costs down.
We've also changed our tubing design and how we run tubing and that saved us -- will save us at least $200 000 per well.
We've gone from chrome to steel tubing.
We've also had good reaction from the service suppliers of wire line car [ph] tubing and a lot of the other pumping services that we use.
In our operating cost we've reduced our headcount obviously when we reduced the rigs like we have.
We've also renegotiated our saltwater disposal cost in our principal area in DeSoto Parish.
And we've removed a lot of wellhead compressors that we didn't really need over there.
So we've had -- and Hal will get into some more details but those are just some of the highlights.
G&amp;A we're down of strong percentage between quarters.
And we're headed on down on that and it's primarily a headcount situation in the G&amp;A.
The last Slide on 8 for me is just our production and debt profile.
I'd like to share this each quarter.
As you know we have redetermined our borrowing base and Paul will get into a little more detail there but this slide just shows where we're from a debt standpoint at the end of the quarter.
Where we expect to be without any potential monetizations of assets and then obviously with a little bit of success on monetizations we're going to be able to drive that down pretty quickly.
So at this point I'll now turn it over to Paul and let him pick up with our guidance liquidity et cetera.
Thanks Steve.
I'll pick up on Slide 10.
Looking at our liquidity and derivative position at the end of quarter.
We ended the quarter with $194.6 million of cash.
We had a $177 million -- sorry $1.1 billion drawn on the credit facility and we can see we had $750 million of notes outstanding for a total net debt of $1.7 billion at quarter end.
Looking at where we are at the end of April we paid down little bit on the debt.
We're down to -- still holding at the $1.1 billion level paid down about $30 million in the month.
As we talked about in the press release our borrowing base was redetermined as we expected from the $1.6 billion level down to $1.4 billion.
And we also amended the debt-to-EBITDA covenant up to 4.5:1 from the current 4:1 that it was at.
With the cash on hand of $183 million at the end of April left us with $427 million of liquidity.
Looking at our derivative position our 2012 hedges remain as they were.
We have 60 Bcf hedged for the rest of this year at $5.27 412 000 barrels of oil at $98 for a total equivalent $229 million per day or right at 50%.
We did add some hedges here in April as we lay out in our Q it'll be filed shortly.
What we did is we went out and swapped 2013 through 2015 for 35 million a day of natural gas 35 million Mcf a day and at a price of $4.18.
We also sold 35 million a day of calls at $4.18.
So effectively we have 35 million a day swapped at $4.18 and a ceiling of 35 million a day at $4.18.
And we're going to continue to look at additional structures as well as just straight hedges Moving on to Slide 11 as we compare our results for the quarter versus our guidance.
As you can see our oil production came in above the high end of guidance.
Gas production came in right at the midpoint of the guidance and our overall was right at the midpoint slightly a little bit above.
The one thing to point out on our differentials we have seen a widening of our Permian oil differentials as reflected in the first quarter.
And we'll talk about that in the guidance going forward.
Our gas differentials came in at the low end of guidance.
And our lease operating expenses also came in at the low end of the guidance as we've been successful in getting those operating cost down.
Gathering expenses right at the midpoint.
Production taxes a little bit higher than expected partly as a result of the new Pennsylvania impact fee.
In this number that we're reporting this is just the ongoing current position.
We also recognize the $2 million retroactive impact fee for everything before 2012.
We've excluded that from our earnings as an out-of-period nonrecurring number.
That will be paid out in September of this year.
Looking at our DD&amp;A rate it came in at $1.84 versus the guidance of $2.10 to $2.20 and that's a reduction of the ceiling test write-off that we took at year end.
Cash G&amp;A as we've discussed we've had good success in bringing those costs down and we came in substantially below guidance on that number.
Interest expense was right in line with guidance as well as our equity income from TGGT and our other investments excluding the items that Steven mentioned already.
Our capital budget capital spending for the quarter was $162 million versus the guidance of $180 million to $200 million.
A part of that is the result of the timing of certain capital projects that we expect to flow into the second quarter.
And also just a regular reduction in the activity level that we're seeing.
All that said our adjusted EBITDA which again does not include any impact of our equity investments including TGGT this is basically just the upstream EBITDA it was $110.5 million versus our guidance of $110.6 million.
And the TGGT EBITDA net to our interest which again is not included in our corporate EBITDA was near the high end of the guidance and came in at $17.4 million.
Slide 12 looking at the guidance for the rest of this year.
We're keeping our production guidance flat to where we had guided previously.
The one thing we are doing as Doug mentioned is we are going to breakout our NGLs.
Currently we forecasted the effect of the NGL production we have in the Permian basin.
As Doug discussed we are looking at some additional processing upgrades in our East Texas position which is not reflected in this guidance as well.
Hal will get into the some of the Permian upside that we're working on.
But I will note that none of the upsides for many potential horizontal drilling or the water flood project that we're working on are in this guidance.
This is just our normal Canyon Sand development drilling.
Look at our differentials.
As we show here we're showing the expanded oil differential out to $6 to $7 under NYMEX for the rest of this year.
And we started again showing our NGLs separately.
We're expecting 45% to 55% of NYMEX oil for those differentials.
I will highlight that the Permian NGLs that we have are relatively low in ethane.
There are only about 1/3 ethane.
The other 2/3 are the heavier components.
That kind of compares to our liquids production and expect the liquids production coming out of the East Texas which is closer to 60% ethane.
So we're able to get some -- still get some pretty good prices on our overall NGL mix on the Permian due to the component balance out there.
On our gas differentials we're showing a wider differential than we have in our prior guidance.
The main effect there is for stripping out the liquid revenue that was included in our prior gas differential.
For all of the other items we're essentially keeping them flat at this point.
We brought G&amp;A down a little bit to coincide with where we are at the end of the quarter.
I do want to point out on our capital we have shifted some of the capital dollars out and we are still guiding towards $450 million to $488 million of total capital for the year with roughly a $470 million midpoint.
We do expect that number to be lower.
We want to get another quarter under our belt and see exactly where we end up with the rig count this quarter.
But at this point we're just going to hold guidance equal at that level.
And with that I'll turn it over to Hal to get in to some more details on the operations.
Thanks Paul.
First I'd like to say that in this tough environment our teams' have responded very very well and I'm really proud of the way the teams has reacted during this low natural gas price environment challenge that we face.
And we've had some really good operational results and we foresee good operational results going forward because of their activities.
On Slide 14 you can see the map we always show of our operations.
I'll emphasize that we have 8 Tcf of reserves and resources across our portfolio based on March 30 NYMEX strip price.
At 8 Tcf we have 1.7 Tcf of proved reserves and of that 1.7 Tcf we have -- 60% of that is PDP and overall 70% or so is proved/developed.
We continue to see the bulk of our production from East Texas North Louisiana and in the Permian holding steady with our production rates but there's a big push toward liquids and I'm going to emphasize in a few minutes the opportunities are presenting themselves.
In Appalachia we're down to 3 rigs now.
The teams are very focused on operations and production in Northeast Pennsylvania particularly in Lycoming County.
But we've had some really good results in the central area like Doug said nobody was giving us credit for.
I'm going to talk about that in a minute.
But I will say that also in Pennsylvania West Virginia and the whole Appalachian area our teams both here and in Warrendale where our office is just outside Pittsburgh are evaluating liquids opportunities there as well in the Appalachian region.
We achieved our operational targets for the year.
In the Haynesville/Bossier our big focus is now going to be on drilling in Holly area primarily in DeSoto Parish where we have 7 rigs operating today.
We're implementing a very very successful at this point restricted choke flowback program.
What we do is we set our limit on the high end of the choke at 18/64ths.
We manage to a 25 psi drawdown on our surface pressures and what we're seeing is some enhancement in our overall type curve leading to an overall EUR improvements.
Down in Shelby we completed the delineation effort.
We drilled 8 wells on 880-foot or about 130-acre spacing.
A partner of ours drilled on an adjacent unit 6 wells on 1 200-foot or 160-acre spacing.
We flow that back we got about 215 million a day IP.
This was in late March.
We put a restricted choke on that program as well the chokes range from 18 to 22/64ths.
And what we're seeing down in the Shelby Area that's very very encouraging to us is with this restricted choke program we're seeing our cumes [cumulative volumes] actually crossover.
So before we were opening chokes up higher 26/64ths to 30/64ths and we're having a big bump of the initial production.
Now we've restricted that initial production but the cumulative rate coming out of these wells with restricted production are actually equaling on a couple of our most recent wells the higher flow rate wells at 100 days.
So we're really excited about that.
We've only seen 2 000 psi drawdown and after that 100-day 200-day period and so we think that this is going to leave us some positive positive results down there.
Now as we evaluate the spacing as gas prices are lower noting that our costs are higher in Shelby because of the deeper higher pressure higher temperature we have deferred drilling there and at least for 2012 we're not going to drill anymore.
Talking about some of the activities up in the Marcellus.
I've noted that the focus is in Northeast Pennsylvania particularly in Lycoming County.
We're making about 116 million a day gross production out of the Marcellus now.
We're continuing to build out our water infrastructure and of significant amount of that is in place we're actually building more.
But look at water infrastructure does for us is -- obviously it takes trucks off the road but it's saving is $300 000 to $500 000 per well about being able to pipe as opposed to truck.
Permian area of course we're continuing our Sugg Ranch Canyon Sand development where we're seeing 50%-plus rates of returns and really strong cash margins.
We are testing Wolfcamp and Cline shales in our acreage we've got a vertical well that we're working right now.
We're coring that well.
I'll give you some details on that in just a moment.
And we're pursuing opportunities to increase acreage.
I'm going to give you some more information on that shortly.
Flipping over to 15 is our capital budget.
The $470 million budget is actually 54% less than what we spent in 2011 and as Paul said we're likely to drop this even more as we manage our programs going forward.
We do have the 1-rig forecast for Permian and I will say if some opportunities materialize out there that we're hoping for we could increase that rig count.
The 3 rigs in Appalachia we have 2 rigs in Northeast PA now shortly we'll have 3 rigs operating there.
And with the 7 rigs in the Haynesville we have 11 operated rigs in the portfolio as we previously noted.
Look at our capital budget of $470 million which is again likely to go down.
I'll note that we still have $30 million of BG carry [ph] remaining as of end of Q1 for our Appalachia drilling and completion operations.
A big focus of our spending will remain in the Haynesville/Bossier area which represents about -- just on the drilling side 57% of our total budget.
And of just looking at the whole drilling and completion budget right now about 75% of our drilling completion dollars will be spent in the Haynesville/Bossier region.
I will say that as we've released rigs the cost to do that is actually been less than we had forecast in our budget.
We forecast about $15 million and I think we'll end up spending somewhere $8 million or $9 million per rig termination cost.
So that's a positive that's occurred.
On Slide 16 you will note that we were at a peak operated rig rate of 28 back in 2011.
We got a big focus on cost and Steve's already talked about how the costs have come down in our Haynesville operations.
I will note that in the Northeast area of the Marcellus we're targeting right now about a $6.3 million $6.4 million well cost.
We've got a plan to get down to $5.8 million or so by the start of 2013.
I talked about how the water infrastructure will help us in that regard.
I will say that we're working very diligently on drilling and completion efficiencies as well.
I'll talk a little bit about of those more so in a minute.
And I better note that the well cost we're talking about is for an average lateral of about 4 200 feet.
On the OpEx side we have shut in some of our less profitable wells.
We've shut in about 655 Cotton Valley wells at this point that make a lot of water.
It's only resulted in a production decrease of about 1.2 million a day net our interest.
The gross cost associated with the shut-ins is about $5 million of cost that we've taken out of our system that's about $2 million or so of net cost to us.
We are targeting the significant reduction of our work-over program.
We're still doing the things that are important and that payout very quickly.
We have 6 work-over rigs at one point working in our Shelby area.
We're down to 2 or 3 now.
We've got several other initiatives underway to reduce our operating expenses.
We've cut company vehicles we've cut about 10% of our company vehicles out.
We're carpooling.
We're finding other means for our people to get around.
Wellhead compression we have continued to cut down.
I know Steve noted that there was about $1.1 million in annual savings that we're realizing from wellhead compression and with the plans that we actually have in place now we may double that impact on our annual savings up to as much as $2 million.
Labor cost we've cut out a lot of our field contract labor as Steve noted.
What I do want to say is we're not cutting back on maintenance when we do that.
Our people our EXCO employees have actually stepped up.
They're doing some routine maintenance now and filling the work that was vacated by Lou [ph] letting go some of the field contract labor with some of their time and their efforts.
So we're in good shape there.
Other reductions we're looking at.
Chemicals we've cut about $600 000 a year out of our chemicals in our Cotton Valley area in our Haynesville area.
Also on the Haynesville with this restricted choke program we've actually cut back some of our water production and in turn we aren't having to have as many coolers on our wellhead.
So we've cut those back significantly and that's actually going to save a couple of million dollars of years as well.
So really some good efforts that are ongoing in managing our cost.
Slide 17 getting into some of the details on East Texas and North Louisiana.
First I'll say that the 264 000 gross acres is actually for our -- all of our North Louisiana East Texas holdings.
We have 132 000 net acres there and our net acreage in the Haynesville/Bossier shale is about 64 500 to our interest.
The majority of this shale acreage is HBP in Holly virtually everything's held.
In Shelby we've got 85%-plus held and we have plans of going forward working with our partners.
While we may not be drilling there others are and we've negotiated some deals that we'll able to hold our acreage through some of the partners drilling as well as just if we choose to do some lease extensions.
Average gross shale production 1.2 Bcf in the first quarter.
That includes an OBO we averaged about 390 million a day we're up from that now.
Actually saw a number of well over 400.
Yesterday we got 324 operated horizontal shale wells flowing to sales as of the end of March.
Big point average in the first quarter was about 72 million a day of curtailment and that was from off-set operations and well work and the treating facility.
I need to make sure that everyone knows that.
Now that number is down to less than 30.
So where we were at -- hell I don't know lot of times last quarter I was seeing 15% to 20% net shut-ins a day.
We're down to about 6% or 7% net shut-ins a day.
So really good movement and a lot of that has to do with the startup of the treating facility that Holly takes over and right over Parish.
We've seen continuous improvement on our drilling days and optimization of our frac designs our drilling days.
Talked about this before but our spud to rig release is now 37 days that's down about 40% over the last couple of years.
On our frac designs we continue to manage our profit mix we're using less chemicals and in addition to the discussions and bidding and working with our frac stimulation service obviously our frac costs are coming down.
One thing we're targeting like Steve said all of our services procedures -- one thing that I will note is our drill costs there is some threat there because of the availability of the cross that's actually grown that's used in production of gel.
I think they call it guar.
And we'll see how that works out but that is one little threat that could drive raise cost a little bit across the whole industry.
Slide 18.
Talking about Appalachia we've got nearly 800 000 gross acres there as Doug said.
About 140 000 net acres net to EXCO have Marcellus shale potential.
About 2/3 of our acreage there is HBP and we have plans of course in place on how we'll hold that acreage through a combination of drilling and lease extensions renewals.
So we're in good shape there on our HBP.
We're -- actually entered this year with a plan to have as many as 7 rigs operating there with the gas price.
We've dropped that down to 3.
We actually had 4 on contract and we released 1.
So we're at the 3-rig level I talked about.
Some major ongoing evaluations could add some substantial production later in this year and some of our activity will also add substantial production later in this year.
We've had some good results with seasoning.
We'll actually bring on the well flow it back for a week or 2 and then shut it in for 3 or 4 weeks and allow the pressures to build.
And couple of examples we've actually seen 2 million a day wells jump up to 5 or 6 million a day rates following the seasoning period.
We're looking at completion methods and how we can optimize our completions.
We're looking at our volumes of sand we're looking at cluster spacing and our numbers of stages.
We're obviously looking at how we manage during simultaneous operations where there's doing fracs or some of our hookups.
We're going to plan to put our facilities in before we complete and that'll give us some online time quicker.
Present delineation of some of our acreage is going well.
I said earlier we've got the focus in Lycoming County.
We have had a really really strong result with the well over in Armstrong County.
We brought it on this is -- before we tubed it up before we seasoned it it was flowing 6.2 million a day 1 500 psi flow-in pressure.
We've now shut that well in to tube it up.
I'll attribute it to a combination of good rock good choke management good completion method and so we're excited about how -- what opportunities that could present.
If you look the table on the right-hand bottom side of Slide 18 you can see how our turn to sales activity is really going to ramp up in Q3 and Q4 this year.
We plan to spud 49 wells through the year and we'll complete 51 but you can see 42 wells will actually turn to sales in Q3 or Q4.
So that's when you'll see most of our ramp-up in production occurring.
While we did see recently that one of the river basin commissions put a stop to some water takes from about 10 or so points of water sources.
That has no impact on us we have multiple water sources.
So the water moratorium from a certain amount of the take points is not going to have an impact on us at all.
Going over to Slide 19 and looking at our non-shale asset.
We have over 1 Tcf of reserves and resources potential and 65% of that is proved.
Good production from East Texas North Louisiana Cotton Valley Vernon.
Appalachia about 16 million a day.
Shelby and Permian you can see we're starting to report that on a Boe per day basis.
Some 1 700 1 800 barrels of oil some 1 300 to 1 400 barrels of NGLs and about 6 million a day of natural gas make up the 4 000 BOE.
Like I said drilling in the Permian with 1 rig but we could add to that if some of our opportunities materialize.
Cotton Valley is very focused on cost management.
We've got some really good re-completions lately in the Cape field in our Vernon area.
We've got a good footprint in our shale development area and I'm excited about the footprint that the Permian provides for some of future opportunities we may realize out in that area.
We're negotiating a potential joint venture that Doug's noted in certain of our shallow and conventional assets.
I will note that in that we'll continue to operate.
Other opportunities we talked about some processing deals with third parties.
We'll be extracting NGLs from some of our higher BTU Cotton Valley gas.
And another thing we're doing in our immediate area is looking at some of our offset operators drilling of Cotton Valley horizontal well.
And I think what they're doing is pursuing high-BTU content opportunities in the Cotton Valley that could lead to some ideas for us and obviously some processing opportunities as well.
So going now to the Permian on Slide 20.
You can see nearly 27 000 net acres in the Permian that's dominated by our Sugg Ranch position in Irion County.
We've got a good operating cost it's about $1.20 per Mcf and you realize really good cash margin out there of about 9.47.
We're evaluating Cline and Wolfcamp.
In addition to other opportunities with Cline and Wolfcamp we're looking at some shale opportunities.
The water flood that Paul referenced earlier has forecast EUR of nearly 900 000 BOE.
At 1 injector and 2 producers that we're going to use out there we actually started injecting water in February.
To this point the pressures have risen just as forecast and we anticipate that we'll start realizing production from this water flood come summer -- summertime.
Another thing that we've done out there is with some of our 3-D activity we've actually identified some carbonate mounds.
We've drilled 6 of them 5 of them had been very successful 2 recent ones.
IP-ed at 200 barrels of oil a day each one was cumed 100 000 plus barrels and is still making 60 barrels of oil and I think we have another 10 or 12 with some of those identified that we'll evaluate their prospectivity and make decisions on whether we drill more of those.
21 shows Cline Shale and horizontal Wolfcamp activity and potential.
Let me point out on this map.
It's kind of deceiving the way it's depicted but the blue which is where a whole lot of our acreage is and some of the opportunities that we're looking at are frankly contains both Wolfberry and Cline potential.
So that's where we are.
We're looking at both Wolfberry and Cline potential.
Our acreage is of course depicted in yellow.
If you look at the green that's really where you're forecasting of Cline only.
So we think we're in a good position there and like I said this footprint really gives us a good good opportunity to expand our operations out there.
There's significant industry activity around us.
We're seeing some IPs in the 800 to 900-plus range of oil.
We're drilling a vertical test now in on our acreage.
We've already taken about 290 feet of core in the Wolfcamp.
We're drilling down to the Cline.
We'll take roughly 360 feet of Cline core or 90-foot cores and we're optimistic.
And if this thing plays out as we anticipate we'll start drilling our first horizontal test later this year based on what we learned after we get the data and evaluate the opportunity.
Last slide I'll talk about is on 22.
TGGT of course is our 50-50 equity investment with BG a midstream company.
Average 1.5 Bcf a day in the first quarter.
Throughput has been up around 1.6 Bcf a day now.
It's very very important to note that we have no current volume curtailments because of treating capacity.
Treating facilities in Red River Parish are operating very well since we started them up in March.
I'll note that over in the Shelby Area we've started up a 250 million a day treating facility there as well.
It's now treating 160 to 180 million a day.
It's just recently started up.
And with those and with some pipes we've put in our major infrastructure and treating facilities work is really behind us.
We've spent about $300 million in TGGT between us.
Well TGGT spent about $300 million of capital last year.
We'll spend about $130 million of capital this year $100 million of that has effectively been spent or will be spent by the first of the year.
And marching forward we'll look at probably $30 million for the rest of the year after we reach 1st of July and about $30 million to $50 million for the next several years as the major work's been done there.
We've increased our credit facility at TGGT as well as we did at EXCO at TGGT.
And we increased to $600 million.
We've got about $495 million outstanding as of the end of March.
We are doing a little work we're looking at third-party volumes.
And as Doug noted we are evaluating the monetization of either part or all of our interest in TGGT and working with BG on that.
With that I'll turn the discussion back over to Mr.
Miller for Q&amp;A -- in time for Q&amp;A.
Right now why don't we turn it over -- I see there's some guys who want to ask some questions.
So Steve why don't you open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys prioritize for us the various strategic options you all talked about at this point? Boy that's good.
This group in here would really like to know that.
Prioritize.
Let me tell you what -- I mean we have several plans but we are working -- the pipeline does not need to be sold.
However it's something that I think if we got the right price it would benefit all of us.
It would give us the liquidity to make some of the acquisitions we're looking at.
But I would say we're -- from a priority standpoint the 2 things that we're working on the hardest are the pipeline sale and the joint venture on the conventional because part of that joint venture is to put a group together to buy additional conventional assets and drop into there.
So that's an exciting project which would kick off.
Now I'd say people have done a spectacular job around here when we put the brakes on.
So everybody's looking for cost cutting.
That's probably the top priority.
Everybody's doing a good job on that.
But we're looking at the 2 asset sales to give us quite a bit of liquidity and we're looking at acquisitions and some sizable ones because we have partners lined up that want to do those.
I'd say priority 1 is cutting cost speed limits.
We're slowing down but with that we have the people in place to look at every $0.01 and look under every rock and they're doing a great job at it.
So I mean we're -- priority cut costs.
But I think that the west Texas group thinks their priority is go find some oil and they're doing it.
So we have 10 priorities around here sorry.
And I think that's probably what everybody in the room thinks.
They'd like to know what our priority is too.
Research Division</strong> Right.
In terms of the cost reductions in the Haynesville could we see an impact -- sort of a detrimental impact to well performance either on new or existing production from I guess on existing -- releasing the compressors you're talking about? And then could there be any potential impact on the tubing design and the procedures you all are talking about? Well the compressors we relayed for the Cotton Valley we dont even have compression on the Haynesville yet.
Those wells have performed outstanding.
They're still over pipeline pressures so that's a future consideration.
As far as the tubing no.
With our chemical program and the design and the analysis then evaluation that our guys have gone through we're very confident the changing of our tubing is going to have a minimal impact no impact on our production.
William I think what you're going to see is we're not going to have the large IPs that we've had in the past because of our restricted choke.
But I think 200 days of production you're going to see it's going to increase.
And one other point I'll make is that our base Haynesville production is actually performing better in the Holly area than we had anticipated.
I think that's a combination of just well performance and less downtime.
So we're in pretty good shape there.
We feel pretty confident.
And all of the cost saving techniques in drilling and completion have been field tested on other wells.
We haven't just jumped in and we do the well and time see what happens and then it's to get a program overall.
So that's been a big push for a number of months around here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question then I'll hop off.
Do you all have any commentary on Permian differentials? Looks like your guidance is a little wider certainly been a topic of discussion of late.
Yes we've taken a lot of pipe out of the Permian over the last number of years.
And there's projects coming online to take the bottlenecks out.
But we're seeing it expand a little bit wider.
I think we're comfortable from where we see it for the rest of the year.
But there's a lot of oil showing up and not a lot of places to take it.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the discussion on the CapEx trending down I guess for the full year.
It seems like the inverse of that is production is actually performing better.
Do you guys have any thoughts on expected Q4 production whether the bias is up or down from current guidance? Yes.
Paul.
I'll take that.
Kind of it's going along with what Hal's comment was on base production in the Haynesville.
We are seeing -- we put our guidance together at the end of the year.
We really did not have a lot of history on these restricted chokes.
We had a lot of noise in our numbers again from the treating facilities being down and as we're going through this year we're seeing our base gas performance produce better.
So I think give us another quarter and let's make sure that this is a good trend.
And I have a feeling that we'll probably be looking at the fourth quarter exit rate pretty higher this year.
I think it will be biased towards the upside.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> The capital efficiency is definitely heading in the right direction for you guys I'm guessing.
That's right.
The other thing -- just to kind of comment on the production again as we look at capital -- as capital comes down when you look at what we're doing in the Haynesville and what we're doing in the Marcellus we're pretty much well locked in to our completion schedule.
So whether we go to 4 rigs or stay at 7 rigs in the Haynesville our production will not move in the Haynesville.
Same thing in the Marcellus.
Those are wells predominantly that have been drilled that are completing or waiting on completion.
So keep that in mind as you think about the variability in our capital program going forward.
It's really looking at inventory that would be produced in 2013 more than anything that would affect us this year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
On the liquidity side could you guys provide a little color on just some stress tests? If you look at current strip prices through 2013 given your spending plans and cash flow expectations do you expect to stay below the 4.5 debt-to-EBITDA covenant? Yes I think we're comfortable with the 4.5 through 2013.
We set out this year looking at 2 to 2.50 gas for this year and 3 to 3.50 gas for next year and we're still very comfortable with that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And then on the TGGT sell impact to liquidity is there any impact of that sell potential to liquidity? Yes.
If we sold our half interest for $500 million to $700 million it just goes straight to pay down debt.
I would say that's an impact.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> But there's no impact to the current borrowing base for the E&amp;P business? No.
Well I canceled that.
Part of our borrowing base we agreed to reduce the revolver by $200 million minimum.
So if we sold it for $500 million to $700 million the first $200 million would go -- that would go -- again our borrowing base would be reduced.
Then the rest of it would just reduce the outstandings.
But it could give us a lot of liquidity.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
And then the last question for me is on the Permian I was a little bit confused.
On the water flood what zone are you flooding? And then how many wells right now are producers that will make up that flood? We're flooding the Wolfcamp and we have 1 injector and 2 producers.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so you -- I didn't know if you meant that the pattern is 1 to 2 but you mean literally you just have...
Literally it's -- what is it? [indiscernible] Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it a 30-acre deal? Something like that? Yes 30 to 40-acre.
It's Wolfcamp sand.
Actually that's carbonate.
Carbonate sorry but it's not a shale.
And we had some producing wells in there and our 3D picked it up as potential.
And our guys have been working on it for years.
And we started it middle of last year and it started to respond.
We know there's oil there because we've produced out of the initial wells.
Now the question is can we get this up.
But it looks good early.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is that for sweep? Or is that to also repressurize the zone? That would be both.
Your next question comes from the line of Anne Cameron with BNP Paribas.
Research Division</strong> Just a question about TGGT.
Your throughput is now I think 1.6 and in February it was 1.5 Bcf a day.
How much of that increase was third-party volumes and how much of it were volumes that were offline? That's a good question because a little of it is coming from third parties.
We made a deal with Encana and El Paso to hook up a couple of their sections.
Some of that is on there and then the stuff that was offline is half 50-50-ish.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much can you grow that third-party business because I think you said at the beginning of the call you think the Haynesville is going to be in decline? Yes I think when we set these we have a 36-inch header system in there.
We thought our capacity was 2.5 to 3 Bcf a day with all our interconnects.
And we've kind of stayed away from third parties because if gas were at 5 or 6 we'd be using it all ourself.
But now that we've slowed down anybody in the neighborhood that would like to hook up and have 10 to 12 outlets to interstates we're in discussions on.
So we think we have 1 Bcf a day.
Wait a minute.
And one other thing I'll add to that Ann is the Cotton Valley horizontal drilling there's -- in particular up in one of our areas in northeast Texas there's a party that's drilling 10 to 20 horizontals.
And we think that could present us over the next year or 2 100 million a day upside.
So there's some real upside there not to the Haynesville but Cotton Valley.
I think a lot of folks is coming back to our legacy system over in east Texas.
Hal was pointing out there's a lot of activity ongoing after some liquids-rich gas and I'd say that's really essentially a liquid stream that was -- I mean liquid system that was built 20 years ago stuff that we're managing.
I think there's a lot of upside to third parties there.
Research Division</strong> Okay do you expect overall TGGT volumes to grow or roughly stay flat from here on? I think ours are going to go down and I think third parties could go up.
And so we haven't forecast up a bunch but we're sure in discussions with some guys that are talking about doing some horizontal Cotton Valley.
And we're trying to make deals with them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's just that $500 million to $700 million range for your 50% stake seems pretty aggressive.
If you're on track for $130 million of EBITDA this year something like 13x of that...
So what if that EBITDA was 150? Research Division</strong> I would say that that's still 11x for that asset.
Is that...
And they're trading at 13x? Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
You're the boss.
Not that I ever look at it but we've had 6 investment bankers in here telling us where they trade.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
Just another question on your plans for either JV for conventional gas or a leasehold acquisition.
I think you said on the fourth quarter that you didn't have any plans to issue equity.
Is that still the case? That is still the case.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just Doug you have mentioned doing some JV potentially to buy conventional gas.
I wasn't sure if you guys had any specific opportunities to identify that this is more of a concept that still come in together.
Can you provide some more color on that? We have some specific ideas identified.
We have offers out and we're in discussions.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And obviously you mentioned a number of other initiatives as well.
I think liquids opportunities in Appalachia came up.
Could you give us some more color on what you might be targeting out there? Well we're looking at several deals in the Utica right now.
And I would say that would be the majority of them.
John's group we've signed CAs on 3 to 4 not huge deals but if they fall on the liquids window it's something we're going to be aggressively pursuing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and how about in the Permian? You mentioned trying to add acreage.
It seems like a hot area.
Is there stuff that's available around you guys? Have you seen a lot of deals there? We have seen a lot of deals in west Texas.
As you probably remember we used to have a lot of people out in Midland our previous company Coda and so we know a lot of people.
But we're in discussions with some significant pieces of land in our neighborhood.
And probably if I'm right on the $40 billion I would say at least 1/4 of the assets that are for sale are out in west Texas and we're looking at them very aggressively.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and I guess [indiscernible] liquids opportunities in the Cotton Valley that most of the operators have had success with.
Can you update us sort of where you are in that process in terms of your own evaluation? Yes we're actually doing some recompletions of hole in both the east Texas and north Louisiana.
We have found some liquids-rich gas.
We've actually recompleted an oil zone over in east Texas that looks good early.
We're not ready to start jumping up and down yet because there may be some leasing opportunities in the neighborhood.
But it's something we have 2 teams working on and they've had good success early.
It's definitely an opportunity and we're not the only one looking.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Doug could you just describe a little bit more about the conventional JV you're talking about.
Is your priority to -- for that JV to help the liquidity situation? And then a little medium to the longer term  [indiscernible] the asset base and more conventional assets and are you talking about conventional oil conventional gas? And which assets in particular are you talking about dropping in there? Yes I'd say it wasn't initially thought of as something that would create liquidity but it does.
It's kind of a private MLP.
We've been approached by a couple of private equity guys that are significant in oil and gas have done deals before looking for conventional gas.
So the idea when we started it was we would roll our conventional gas into it.
We would operate it but they would put up the bulk of the money.
And we would put money in it also and it would have a distribution.
And we would just attack conventional gas areas where we operate and we would focus on the Cotton Valley and maybe the west Texas gas out there so where we already operate.
We're still seeing a lot of opportunities in the Cotton Valley and sometimes we see an opportunity where there's Cotton Valley and Haynesville so we've separate the Cotton Valley and put it in.
It really was a conventional gas play.
We've been approached by more than one person to put it together.
It was not initially thought of as a liquidity but it for sure is.
And it would help us.
Research Division</strong> So you're talking about maybe dropping 100% of your conventional assets in there getting cash for say 50%.
You maintain a 50% interest and then on a go -- you operate on a go-forward basis and then as time goes on you potentially together buy some more.
Is that how it works? Yes.
That's kind of how it works.
You've got the concept.
That isn't exactly the right numbers but I'm not -- yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
And then -- okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the Cotton Valley shut-ins you talked about did you shut those in for economic reasons? In other words are you losing money for every Mcf you produce there or could you just describe that? Yes I think what we have done we started several months ago to look at how many wells do we operate out of 13 000 or however many wells we operate are losing money at these gas prices just gross revenue versus operating cost.
And we found out that we had quite a few in the Cotton Valley and that's a product of low productivity but more importantly water hauling costs and so -- and some compression.
So what we did -- we're saving $5 million or $6 million in costs by just shutting those wells in.
It's only $1.2 million a day.
And I think every operator ought to be doing it because there's a lot of gas being produced at a loss.
Our partners are not amused when we send them a check for a $1 000 and we send them a bill at $1 500.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's very helpful.
And then Doug could you just give us a timetable on these -- I think you said with the JV we should expect to hear something within the next 30 days.
What about the TGGT deal? When...
We have a couple of offers.
We have a couple more people coming in to look.
We're scheduling them right now.
I'd love to say 30 days but give me 30 to 60.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any other transactions we can look forward to? You never know.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then lastly what's the minimum that you need to spend to meet any leasehold or pipeline or any other commitments you have? It's getting really low.
Haynesville what do we have if we try out to run a rig? Ish? Not even.
No no.
Let's say 0 capital in the Haynesville.
Marcellus we could do it with 2 rigs.
We're looking at that right now.
It's a combination of rigs and then some extension on some leases but I don't have the dollar amount yet.
Two is probably I guess...
Two -- use 2 rigs out there none in the Haynesville.
Obviously none out in west Texas.
And then in TGGT it's a separate event but it's very minimal.
I mean we can cut this down to the bare bone.
Now that means that we have 875 people playing golf every day.
No we're not going to do that.
This is the time when you we make hay.
This kind of reminds me of the '80s.
Now drilling wells in the gas fields are stupid but buying gas production at the current price is smart.
And so I would love to do some of that and if we can find the right deals out in an oil area where you can make 50% to 100% we're looking at that.
Acquisitions are going to be a significant part of the consolidation of this industry over the next 12 to 24 months.
Research Division</strong> And for you is your focus -- even though you may be seeing some very attractive gas opportunities is it a focus for EXCO to balance the portfolio and bring in some more oil and liquids-rich? Yes.
Obviously if we could have the magic wand we'd be 50% oil and 50% gas.
Right now we're 90% to 95% gas.
Our team has done a spectacular job over the last 5 years figuring out 2 areas which I think are going to be the most prolific gas areas in the country over the next 10 to 20 years.
The Haynesville we're going to continue to look at opportunities.
The Marcellus we're going to continue to look at opportunities.
And those teams are in place and looking.
But I think from a shareholder standpoint I think the shareholders would like us to see more balance and if we're going to drill wells drill something that has a reasonable rate of return which is on the oil side.
So we're looking at those all at the same time.
We would love to be 50-50 but there's a lot of things I love.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify some things.
So on the TGGT sale the $500 million to $700 million that would be the net cash after debt paydown at TGGT? That's what I pitched out there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And any tax leakage...
I should have never pitched that number out.
I hope it doesn't come back to haunt me but that's kind of a neighborhood number for our half of the equity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
$500 million to $700 million after the gross debt and that's your half.
When -- how does that compare to I guess the private offer you had? Right in line.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any tax leakage of any magnitude? No.
Actually we have a lower basis there but one of the things that EXCO has that is an asset that you guys forget about all the time is we have a $1.8 billion live NOL and so we would have no tax leakage.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And I think Joe might have been -- might have asked this question definitely.
So in the JV -- again just to clarify you expect cash up front in the conventional JV? Yes.
Why would we do it? Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I think you'd previously had said how in your view dry gas PUDs are worthless.
And so is this someone else's view then that you're -- exploiting is a bad word but more or less? No no no.
When I say -- it's only worth an option value.
But our Cotton Valley if you look at our Cotton Valley wells across our portfolio we have several hundred of them that are producing.
And the value of that asset PV-10 are PDP.
All of the offset locations which are 700 or 800 are worth 0 because you wouldn't drill them.
Those would go in -- the locations would go in and if we're buying somebody else out we're not going to give a lot of value for Cotton Valley locations today.
They're just option value.
If gas goes to 5 or 6 you would drill them.
If it doesn't you wouldn't.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in the JV you would get the PDP value -- some component of PDP? Or it will all be PDP value in effect? Right right pretty much.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess I'm trying to get my head around if you then -- does production come out -- I mean do we take your production numbers down? Sure.
The joint venture depending on our ownership the Cotton Valley production Vernon and our interest in the Cotton Valley and potentially up in the shallow Appalachia that production would be in a joint venture with monetization.
Hal can help you with that next week.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes.
So I mean I shouldn't look at it differently than the sale? No it is a sale but we will have an interest in it and a promoted interest.
We'll still operate it and we will aggressively seek additional acquisitions.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you remind me again how the restricted cash component works and sort of what direction it takes from here? That would be Paul.
The restricted cash again is 1 quarter's worth of capital and operating expenditures related to our Haynesville joint venture.
So as those activities come down that cash is essentially released.
We'll be putting less in than we're taking out.
We fund that thing every month.
So we expect that to be down to the $50 million level by year-end.
When you look at our cash spending it will be funded with $100 million of cash.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And...
That was a deal that we did with BG on the front end.
BG has the same restricted cash account as we do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a couple of more if you can bear with me.
One is so on the Haynesville wells I think you commented previously that there's absolutely  there's no operational effect from these efficiencies really across the board that you're working hard on and experiencing.
Just a couple of things on the stages for these Haynesville wells are those dramatically different or any different than what you've done typically? And second is I guess the chrome was put in for high temperature environment possible H2S and sort of what are going to steel there what that does.
Our number of stages have remained the same.
We average about 11 stages or so in our Holly area on our 4 200 4 400-foot laterals.
As far as the change out on the tubing like I said earlier that wasn't done just casually.
That was done after a lot of evaluation and ensuring that we have the right chemical program and looking at the components of our gas to make sure that it's an appropriate thing to do.
So we're very comfortable with going to LAV [ph] instead of chrome.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one final one so maybe with Steve who mentioned this on the call and it was how when you're comparing this year versus last and last year gas prices were so good.
And I guess in the rear view it doesn't look a lot better but it was 4.
And so if I was to read forward is that the price where you would go back to normal operations? No no no.
We have a part of our portfolio that has a 20% rate of return at 3.50 or 4 but I wouldn't say we wouldn't go back to normal operations.
Cotton Valley price takes 6.
Marcellus -- parts of the Marcellus works at 3.50 or 4.
But I think we'll be very slow in coming back and I think the industry as a whole.
If we start finding stuff out in west Texas and we move 2 or 3 of those rigs in the Haynesville out there and oil stays above 80 we won't move them back if gas goes to 6.
The rates of return are totally different.
It will be slow.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for me.
I guess first just question on my end around TGGT.
Is the private offer still outstanding i.e.
is that still a good offer? No it's expired.
I have a feeling I could resurrect it by noon.
There is a -- let me put it this way the reason we did it we did a total review of selling 100% doing an MLP or talking to infrastructure funds.
The infrastructure funds that we've had discussions with have a lot of cash and are looking for assets like this.
It would not be hard at all to do a partial sale to them.
But we think in the best interest of our shareholders and putting our capital where it really should be if we can monetize 100% of it with a strategic operator that doesn't need all the G&amp;A.
They can pay us more and that's what we're looking for and think we found.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Look forward to hearing more.
On the JV then sorry if I just missed this but how much production do you actually have in your mind that could potentially be contributed to that? Are we like 5 000 per day [ph] kind of number? What's your ballpark thinking around that? Well in our slides on 19 we lay out our conventional assets.
So we got a little bit over 4 000 BOEs in the Permian and we've got about 100 million a day of gas across the portfolio.
I would say...
Research Division</strong> That's really about 100 million a day then? Yes.
Well potentially.
That's to 100%.
Now all of it may or may not go in.
But I would say you'd kind of like me using the rules of thumb.
With this long life these assets probably Cotton Valley if you use the forward strip we're probably worth in the 7 000 to 8 000 and flowing.
The spend like it used to be in that 5 like a short life asset is kind of middle of that.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Appreciate it.
And then I guess the only one for me is the Haynesville.
You provided a nice little turn to sale schedule in the Marcellus.
Do you have similar schedule for the next 3 quarters in Haynesville how many wells will be turned to sales? What was on there? For the whole year it's 83.
We are actually -- let's see.
We have already -- we've got a turn to sell sales for the full year in the Haynesville of 81.
We've actually turned 37 or so to sale now so we've got a balance of 45 44 for the rest of the year.
It's going to be about 14 to 15 a quarter.
We're essentially going to be turning on 2 sections a quarter going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Leight from RBC Capital Markets.
Most of my stuff has been exhausted here but a couple of follow-ups.
Just can you clarify on the sale of midstream TGGT is there a timing issue in borrowing days reduction if you sold conventional assets first? No.
Okay so it's 200 associated with? Either one of them and if and when we sell them and no time.
For us there's a time.
But I mean but as far as the bank is concerned there's no time.
No I just meant in terms of if you sold something else first it doesn't...
Right okay.
Either one.
And the calculation of the leverage test and the credit agreements are there any significant adjustments perhaps in the reporting? Yes it's filed as an amendment out -- as a document out there.
But it's -- we -- in our EBITDA we add back [indiscernible] and some other nonrecurring items.
That's kind of the biggest one and then essentially it's a net debt calculation.
Appreciate that.
And then another sort of odd accounting question but working capital source of funds in the quarter does that reverse itself? What was that attributable to? The working capital changes predominantly.
As we're slowing down we're collecting our partner's funding of activity.
So we'll have a flush of working capital.
And then probably for a quarter we might have a little bit of a use and then it's going to flatten itself back out to normal.
So initially you're collecting your -- because we have about 1/3 or 40% working interest everywhere we've got a lot of partners so we're collecting receivables from them on the capital side.
And then we'll have a deferred flip on collecting lower priced revenues.
Okay.
And then lastly just to clarify on northeastern Pennsylvania.
With the prices that you're looking at and the obligations you have is there a breakeven on fulfilling your FT obligations? And what would you be looking at for production expectations at that kind of rig rate? We don't have any FT up there so that's not a problem.
And what was the second part of the question? Production outlook if prices are where you think they'll be.
Well what do you think they'll be and I'll give you the answer because what I think and what you think may be 2 different things.
I mean if they're $2 we're going to be slowing down and if they're $4 up there we'll maintain or slightly pickup.
And in the middle we have a lot of board discussions and decisions to make.
It's really again it's going to be a question for '13.
I mean '12 is locked in but we could go essentially to no more wells drilled for us this year and we're essentially locked in to our completions because we've dropped the rigs fast -- we dropped the completion rigs faster than we've dropped the rigs.
And if you are looking at Appalachia we've got 40-some-odd wells in inventory right now and that's basically our completions for the full year.
Got that.
I was looking and trying to get it out into '13 but I hear you.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Henick from Scurlydog Capital.
We talked a lot about the TGGT sell et cetera.
Assuming your rate is $500 million to $700 million which I hope you do obviously will all of that cash be used to pay down the debt? And to the extent you don't use all of it it will it just go into working capital? Or is that your war chest for the joint -- JVs that you're planning? Well we'll just pay down the revolver with it because that's all accessible again if we need it.
That would be part of the war chest but we'll just pay down -- we don't need to say put it in the mattress.
Right okay.
Fair enough.
My other question you guys talked about that you've done some hedges into 2013 through '15.
I'm just curious what percentage of your production or your expected production I know that can change is currently hedged for a 2012 and '13 and '14.
And I understand that what your reduction will be at '13 and '14 are sort of a guess versus what your current planning is or at current prices where you see hedges on? Yes.
It will be in the 15% 20% range right now.
15% 20% range for '13 '14 '15? Yes.
What about '12? '12 we're 50% hedged for the rest of this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Brillo [ph] from Pendulum Capital Markets.
Is there anything precluding Wilbur Ross from adding to his equity stake besides his normal course of being on the board? No.
I think he is now on the board and he has to deal with the board restrictions as all board members do.
But there's no poison pill that was all gone.
So he can -- he theoretically could go over 20% if he so desired.
But he's still subject to all board restrictions.
Yes of course.
And also for 2013 you just -- on the last question there what do you guys have modeled for the price of nat gas for 2013? Which model? 3 to 3.50.
We're looking at a range of 3 to 3.50 price gas for next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Giesler from Harbinger.
Quick question.
You talked a lot about the midstream JV and the conventional would that preclude or complement some potential larger transactions that you just talked about on the last call? Well actually one of the big deals that we're working on is subject to those 2 transactions happening.
A couple of the deals we're working on they have nothing to do with it.
That's why we're marching ahead because it would sure give us liquidity to do some significant deals.
I mean it's mixed.
We're working on 3 or 4 deals -- let me -- we're working on 3 or 4 deals where the financings are in place.
We don't need to sell it.
We're working on one significant deal where that would be the equity towards the deal.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Heidbreder from Millennium.
Actually 2 questions.
First can you -- you might have raised this a little bit earlier I apologize if I missed it.
But can we get some more color on that Shelby Area test.
What was the spacing? What was your working interest? And the 215 growth you brought all 14 wells online at the same time is that...
Yes but they were highly restricted.
Let Hal do that.
Our working interest is 25% in both of those units.
One of them we operated one of them we did -- we do not.
We brought all of those wells on simultaneously.
We frac-ed them together and then we flow them back together.
We managed each of the wells as you would expect individually as far as it goes.
We brought on both Haynesville and Bossier.
So in the wells -- the units that we operated we actually drilled 4 Haynesville and 4 Bossiers.
And the unit that the other operator drilled and completed there were 3 Haynesville and 3 Bossiers a total of 6 wells.
And again there was on our side roughly 130-acre spacing.
And on the other operator's side roughly 160-acre spacing between like Bossier to Bossier or Haynesville to Haynesville.
Okay.
And the -- I guess what are you -- how was it different than what you've previously done there? And I guess what are the takeaways you guys are trying to get to? The proper spacing as we make decisions going forward on how we develop the field you'll note that in the Haynesville Holly area where we developed a 80-acre spacing this one obviously has got a bigger broader spacing so we're trying to determine that.
We're trying to determine the impact between the Haynesville and the Bossier and how that plays out.
We're very encouraged by those results at this point and again we're using a restricted choke program that's a little more restricted than what we had used previously.
So there's a lot of data to be analyzed.
There's a lot of information to be gained.
But at this point we're very encouraged about the results and we're excited about the opportunity to drill in there again when the prices recover in a year or 2.
Okay great.
And then my other question is actually on the Holly spacing.
How many -- and I guess core Holly how many locations do you guys think you have left either gross or net? A lot.
It changes every day.
I mean we're adding...
I'll let Harold Jameson on that.
Harold is actually a frac guy.
Let me speak to the unit count in the Holly area really DeSoto Parish.
As of current -- currently we have 27 units that are fully developed in the Haynesville.
27 units that we operate there are fully developed.
And if you look at the total number of units in the DeSoto Parish area we're in the 67 range.
So if you look at where we are currently we're about 40% of the current -- of the units in the DeSoto area that are fully developed on 80-acre spacing in the Haynesville.
The point is we have several years drilling that.
There's Bossier and we have -- we've only drilled 2 Bossier wells in the entire Parish.
And that's a debate that goes on around here and we're actually looking at some more units to buy.
That's a place where we would buy more units.
So it's 27 gross units are fully developed out 67 gross units? Right.
And your average -- just the DeSoto Parish and you're working interest there is from 30% to 40%? That's right.
I'm showing there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back for any closing comments.
All right thanks Steve.
Obviously we appreciate everybody getting on.
It's been a tough go but I think everybody's got their heads up and working hard.
You can see that we have a lot of priorities around here whether its liquids drilling in west Texas whether it's acquisitions in west Texas joint ventures.
We're interviewing a lot.
We've had a lot of contact from foreign investors wanting to buy dry gas in the U.S.
because in anticipation of them needing it for LNG.
So a lot of activity probably as much as we've ever seen.
And we're not going to hide under a rock we're going to be out amongst them.
From a capital standpoint we have enough liquidity to maintain.
If gas prices go lower we will further cut our budget.
We will leave within our cash flows.
And I think having 8 to 10 Tcf of gas equivalents is a spectacular portfolio.
One of the assets that we have that nobody does and I think it's really tough to evaluate is the $1.8 billion live NOL so any transactions we do have 0 tax consequences.
We believe that we're seeing supply going down faster than most.
We believe that we're starting to see some demand coming back faster than most and we hope these cheap gas lasts long enough for us to double our size.
But I think we're going to see -- by the second half of this year you're going to start -- people are going to start realizing supply is going down.
With that we're going to keep running as fast as we can.
And anybody that needs to talk to us give us a call.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the second quarter earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Doug Miller you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much Matthew.
I'd like to welcome everybody to our second quarter earnings and production conference call and before I get started we have to be legal.
So Doug would you read our nondisclosure disclosure? Sure Doug.
I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
Statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to Pages 22 and 23 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Thanks.
You sound like a lawyer.
Well again welcome everybody.
We've got 9 people in here prepared to stick with you and go over all Q&amp;A that we might have and hopefully answer any and all questions.
It's been a tough first 7 months.
Good news and bad news I mean the good news is our people with the slowdown have focused on cost and production.
And our production is slightly better than we had forecast.
That's a product of putting a lot of time and in detail and maybe doing a few changes.
We'll get into that.
But we're very happy with our production and all the initiatives that we've set out on.
I mean it's been tough because to increase our earnings and our cash flow we've had to cut people.
And in 35 years it's really the first time I've ever done that.
And it's really the toughest thing that we've had to do here in the first 6 months.
But I'd say that I have over 300 people between contractors and employees since the first of the year we continue to look at it.
It's just something you have to do and it's not fun.
But we have to look at it because we are running a company for the shareholders.
We have reduced capital at least 3 times we continue to look at it.
Capital expenditures will be driven by gas prices mainly and so we continue to look at that and Hal's group everyday we're working on it.
I think the main initiative that we've been doing and everybody in the company has been working on is saving cost both at the operating level and at the corporate level.
And you can see that stuff starting to filter in to our income statement.
And I would expect to see more of that because some of that has just been done recently more of that in future quarters.
And that's a product of being at 30-something rigs running a year ago with forecast gas going up.
And now we've run into gas going down.
And now we have what 8 or 9 rigs running and we just don't need all those people.
We've been releasing rigs.
Now those rigs once they leave the Haynesville they're heading out to West Texas or down to the Eagle Ford.
They're probably not coming back for a while.
And so we'll get into that here lately -- I mean later.
We are evaluating out on our West Texas some Wolfcamp and some Cline Hal will get into that.
We've had some recent early indications that we do have Wolfcamp and we do have Cline Shales under the Sugg Ranch and so we're working on that.
We have finalized 2 processing agreements in the Cotton Valley where we're stripping liquids.
One of that is -- they're due to be in by the end of the year.
A&amp;D I think everybody wants to know what we're doing.
I'm kind of in the penalty box for predicting dates which I'm not going to do anymore.
Steve spanked me.
We are reviewing the sidecar with our conventional assets in it.
We have it out with 6 people.
We have had some offers that we're evaluating right now.
And instead of giving you a date certain we hope that we'll have it done by the end of the year.
Pipeline.
We have been working on that and we have had some offers there.
We're evaluating that also.
We've been working with BG.
We actually took it off the market for a little while while we were evaluating another transaction.
We are looking at it.
And again the good news on that is the cash flow and the EBITDA continue to increase as we cut costs over there also.
Hal has gotten very involved in that and so actually the numbers are starting to look a lot better but we are seriously looking at making a partial or full sale of that.
And again I'm not going to give you the Fourth of July I'm going to give you by the end of the year on that one.
The rest of the activity we're working on and have bid on several deals.
We do have many joint venture partners that we have teamed up with and are teaming up with.
The activity is as high as I've ever seen it.
It wouldn't surprise me if you didn't see $20 billion to $30 billion of transactions in the second half of the year.
Some of which we're looking at and would love to bid on.
Again most of those would be done in conjunction with joint venture partners.
We're looking at the Eagle Ford.
We're looking at West Texas but more importantly we are looking inside the Haynesville where we have our best people working and have as much data and facts as anybody.
We are also looking up in the Marcellus and our deals in all cases.
So we want to be -- if gas ever goes up again we sure would like to have more of it when it goes up.
I do have a large shareholder that's been spanking me here lately and he gave you some facts.
He said you're a natural gas company I think we're 95% natural gas.
Since the beginning of the year natural gas is up 8% and our stock is down 33%.
Since the low on April 18 gas is up 65% and our stocks are up 22%.
So we have to figure out what we're doing wrong.
And I think a lot of people are spreading rumors about the financial jam we're in we're not.
We have $500 million of liquidity.
We have assets that we're looking at doing something with either trading or selling and we are participating in all the deals that are for sale.
And with a lot of confidence I might add.
And we will -- if gas goes down we will continue to reduce rig count.
I mean we're down to 5 in the Haynesville.
I think the last time we said we were going to 7.
And we're prepared to go to 0 if we need to like with many of the other operators.
I think my feeling on gas is when we look at going private we were thinking gas was going to be cheap for 2 to 3 years cheap meaning in the 3 to 3.50 range where there would be some areas where you would drill.
When gas caved in to actually below $2 on 4/18 it really set a panic through the gas industry.
And you saw many operators absolutely quit drilling and many of them have made the decision to leave the dry gas areas and head for oil.
And so that rig count which was 1 600 at the end of '08 is down to below 500.
And in the Haynesville for example we're below 25 after peaking at 186.
So you're starting to see it slowly but you're starting to see production down.
You're starting to see storage.
The margin each week it gets lower and lower.
20 to 40 Bcf a week is digging into our storage glut.
So it looks like instead of a 3-year deal we're looking at maybe the end of this year we're going to be at storage levels and we're going go into peak heating and peak production needs with production going down.
So I just want to get a few of these things under our belt because I think if we do have any kind of a winter we're going to have peak demand with production actually going down.
So I kind of expect to see if there is going to be a spike it would be January February.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Steve and we'll get into the financials.
All right.
If you would please turn to Page 5 of the presentation just the corporate highlights.
As you can see we're displaying the first quarter of this year and this quarter and the second quarter of last year.
Again our production level was 2.4 percentage up.
If you compare it to the first quarter it was 9% up.
If you compare it with the second quarter last year it's essentially the same as the fourth quarter of last year so -- and ahead of guidance.
So I think we had a great quarter.
The average price obviously is still a problem.
And of course that impacts revenues.
But we are operating under our average price in the same quarter of $2.36 which is not too spiffy.
Direct operating costs are $0.38 an Mcf down by 17% from the second quarter of last year.
I'll get into a little more of that in a second.
G&amp;A is another area where we have concentrated.
We're at $0.37 an Mcf in this quarter versus $0.50 in the last quarter a 26% decrease.
We did have a ceiling test write-down as expected and have -- as we reported that we probably would in this quarter.
We wrote down 429 million and that was on an average price of $3.15 for the trailing 12 months.
That average price at this point is still going south.
So we would expect some kind of a write off over the next -- at least in the third quarter.
Overall it was a good quarter.
We were pleased with our progress in all areas in terms of our cost reductions.
And I think that we're on the right track.
Page 6 shows the rig counts that Doug spoke to.
Actually in the first quarter comments I think I said that we could very well go to 5 rigs in the Haynesville if gas didn't strengthen.
Well it didn't strengthen and we did go to 5 rigs right now.
It was at 7 at the end of the second quarter.
Marcellus we're at 1 rig right now; and Permian we've increased it by 1 to up to 2 rigs but we'll be in the 1 to 2-rig category over the rest of the year.
That's just strictly economics.
You -- there's no use drilling at $2.36.
The Haynesville drilling and completion cost is a really bright picture and Hal will get into that.
But right now we're drilling wells less than the 8.3 target that we have.
And I think that by the end of the year we will be at 8.
And also believe that we will be -- that we have a pretty clear or at least a reasonably clear line of sight to -- below that and I may be down to 7.5.
So we'll see.
That's a tough step but we're working on it.
In the Marcellus the costs of drilling have begun to come down as we complete our water infrastructure buildout which has a dramatic effect on per-well cost so we're optimistic there.
As far as the costs you can see them down at the bottom in the little table showing the actual dollars of various cost categories against the quarterly average from 11 in the Q4 et cetera.
Bottom line we're down 21% Q4 to Q2 of '12.
And we're down 10% from the first quarter.
Good stuff.
Page 7 has the little chart that shows our production and where we think it's going to go versus our debt levels.
Our debt is down $40 million from the end of the year.
It's down $70 million from the end of the first quarter.
We expect it to be roughly flat at the end of the year assuming we don't make sales.
But with the sales obviously we will be at a very level on debt.
We'll talk about production in terms of the guidance that Paul will handle.
But obviously it's going to start coming off some just because they don't have as many rigs running.
So that's the -- that's kind of a quick summary on the financial end.
I'll turn it over to Paul and let him get into some liquidity and into our guidance.
Thanks Steve.
On Slide 9 I'll pickup with the liquidity and derivatives discussion.
As you can see at the end of the quarter we ended with $113 million of cash and $1.1 billion drawn under our line of credit $750 million of notes outstanding for total debt of $1.86 billion.
Net debt was $1.7 billion and we have a $1.4 billion borrowing base which leaves us with $400 million of total liquidity including the cash.
Our leverage ratio at the end of the quarter as calculated under our credit facility was 3.4x.
Looking at our derivative position for the rest of this year we have added some hedges beyond 2012.
For 2012 we're hedged at $5.27 on $222 million a day.
We've also got 1 500 barrels of oil hedged at $98.
You can see we're about 50% hedged on our gas and about 75% hedged on our oil.
Looking in 2013 we've added some calls and some swaps.
We're currently swapped at 70 million a day for 2013 at $4.65 and we sold calls at $4.29 on $55 million a day.
Looking at our oil position for 2013 we've got 1 000 barrels a day hedged at right at $100 and we've actually sold some calls during the quarter on 2014 2015 oil for 1 000 barrels a day at $100.
We will continue to evaluate our hedge position as prices have strengthened here.
We will be looking at potentially wearing on some more.
We can get well over $4 for well over being $0.05 over for a 3-year straight swap looking at '13 '14 '15 which materially changes the numbers from the $2 that we're realizing today.
Looking at Slide 10 to go over our second quarter guidance that we previously put out versus the actuals.
As Steve mentioned and Doug both mentioned our production in Q2 came in above the high-end of guidance primarily as a result of a general outperformance in our Haynesville wells where we are seeing a much shallower decline than we initially anticipated.
Our LOE and G&amp;A as mentioned before came in well below guidance as the financial impact of our major cost reduction initiatives were realized ahead of schedule.
The combination of those items and a slightly better average realized price than anticipated resulted in $112 million of EBITDA which was $11.6 million higher than it previously guided.
Also to highlight is as we mentioned before the impact of TGGT's cost reduction initiatives.
TGGT's adjusted equity income and adjusted EBITDA came in well above guidance and that was a result of the higher throughput that we've put through the system.
As we -- as our volumes are greater than expected we show you our net volumes but TGGT moves the gross volumes associated with those.
And TGGT was successful in their cost reduction initiatives as well.
You can see that their -- our share of their EBITDA came in at 21.1 million well above the high end of guidance.
As for the guidance for the remainder of the year we have raised our production forecast lowered LOE and G&amp;A as well as the corresponding effects to our share of TGGT's EBITDA.
And again to remind everyone when we talk about our corporate EBITDA that does not include any of the effects of TGGT's EBITDA as it is carried as an equity investment.
Production guidance was raised in Q3 and Q4 by $20 million and $10 million a day and our full year volumes are now expected to be 512 million to 522 million a day as compared to prior guidance of 497 million to 512 million a day.
We lowered LOE by 1 million per quarter reflecting the cost reduction initiatives implemented this year.
G&amp;A was also lower by 2 million per quarter also reflecting the cost reduction initiatives implemented.
Using $3 gas for Q3 and $3.25 NYMEX prices for Q4 and $90 oil for the remainder of this year compared to prior guidance of $3 and $3.50 and $105 for oil and incorporating all the changes outlined to our guidance our full year EBITDA guidance is now $457 million as compared to prior guidance of $441 million.
We expect to end the year 3.8x levered as calculated under our credit facility.
And finally looking at our equity income we've raised the equity income impact from our investments by $5.5 million for Q3 and $3 million for Q4.
The increase is attributable to higher throughput than originally expected and lower operating expenses at TGGT.
TGGT's EBITDA net of our 50% interest was raised by $2.5 million for Q3 and $2 million for Q4.
We're now guiding to a full year EBITDA of $150 million for 2012 up from $130 million from our prior guidance.
And that again is to 100%.
And with that I'll hand it over to Hal to talk about the operating side of the business.
Thank you Paul.
Slide 13 has an overview of the company's assets.
I'll point out that based on the June 22 NYMEX strip we have proved reserves in the corporation of 1.6 Tcfe.
Our net acreage is nearly 500 000.
Key focus as Steve Doug and Paul have all emphasized has been on managing our base production and really having a particular focus on all of our costs LOE capital and G&amp;A.
I'll particularly note that our headcount has gone down on the employee front from about 1 100 at year end '11 to approximately 960 today.
Our contractor headcount is down even more dramatically.
And as Doug said when you look at the contractors and our employees together we're down about 300 people from year end to the end of the quarter -- or to today.
Big focus in our operating areas of Haynesville/Bossier is on manufacturing in DeSoto Parish with 5 rigs.
Our volumes stayed very strong.
In the Marcellus our focus is on development in Northeast Pennsylvania and appraisal in Central Pennsylvania which has been particularly encouraging.
In the Marcellus our production is up to 146 million a day on a gross basis from 116 million in the first quarter.
Permian we're continuing our Sugg Ranch Canyon sand development and we're testing other opportunities there.
And in TGGT our volumes have held pretty steady but the big focus there is the wrap up of our significant capital program.
I'll give you details on all of these areas in a minute.
On Slide 14 you can see that our capital budget is $470 million which is significantly less than our '11 capital spend and less than what we've actually entered the year thinking we were going to spend.
84% of our capital budget remains dedicated to development and that 84% entails our drilling and completion in our field operations areas of focus.
Field operations includes activities such as artificial lift and managing our existing assets.
I will say that of our rig count as Steve said in the Permian we have 2 today.
One of those rigs is focused on the Canyon sands and its development the second rig we've been using to test other opportunities.
And so we'll bounce a little bit between 1 and 2 rig count through the rest of this year as we have to this point.
Appalachia we're probably going to stay with 1 rig for the remainder of this year and we'll consider ramping that up next year depending on what prices do.
In the East Texas and North Louisiana as we've noted we have 5 rigs.
There's actually a couple of those that go off contract in September.
We're not saying we're going to release those at this point in time but we're going to evaluate what our opportunities are and what gas prices do and make a decision on those 2 rigs here in the next few weeks.
Slide 15 I want to spend a little bit of time on.
On the capital the focus on the drilling and completion cost Steve noted the detail on how we were targeting 8 million by Q4 and even lower dollars in 2013.
But it's really been driven by some strong strong efforts on our guys' parts.
In both the Haynesville and in the Marcellus we've negotiated with our frac service providers and they've been very responsive to the current environment.
And we've had reductions in our frac service cost in both areas but we're negotiating reductions on all of our services on our rig operations.
And like I said our contractors has been very responsive.
And our operating expense we did shut down wells in the first quarter.
We've kept them shutdown particularly in Cotton Valley.
And we have initiatives underway to reduce our OpEx 15% to 20%.
We've met those targets.
Now work-over program we actually had as many as 11 work-over rigs operating for us last year.
We're down to 3 today.
We did a lot of work that's allowed us to get to that point.
The chemical program while we've cut the cost we've also improved it.
It's allowing us not have to do with much intervention as we had to before hence some of the work-over rigs cut back.
A big big focus that I want to emphasize is always on our company and contract labor.
Now we have used technology we've developed the control room here in Dallas that allows us to every hour look at all of the wells across our Haynesville portfolio.
And in turn we're going to do surveillance -- we've got enhance surveillance we're doing work on those wells on a more selective basis.
And in turn it's allowed us to keep our base volumes at a higher level than we had originally anticipated.
And I will also note that our safety and compliance efforts haven't been compromised at all.
We've had an excellent safety record across our portfolio and actually within EXCO our TRIR or total recordable incident rate is at 0.6 which is literally 50% of what our industry average is.
East Texas/North Louisiana is depicted on Slide 16.
We've got over 60 000 net acres with Haynesville Shale Haynesville and Bossier Shale potential more than 90% of that acreage is held by production.
But we have 346 operated wells and with our OBO wells we've participated in more than 525 wells in the Haynesville/Bossier.
One point that I really want to emphasize is that as a reduction in activities occur and as our surveillance has taken hold we've actually brought down our net volume on average that we shut in or curtailed during the first quarter 72 million a day down to 22 million a day strong efforts on our people's parts.
The restricted rate program where we typically go up to about an 18/64ths choke as opposed to when we're first drilling and completing in the Haynesville we're going up to 28 to 30 to even 32/64ths chokes.
We're managing our pressures and our drawdown and we think that over time that's going to enhance our EUR and in fact it's actually helping maintain the base as we held the pressures up.
But base performances being higher than forecast it's really attributable to a lot of good work on a lot of people's part with the well surveillance our control room we really do well reviews daily.
Last thing I'll talk about on this slide is we do have a good inventory of wells waiting on completion.
At the end of June we had 6 rigs operating.
As we noted we're down to 5 today but we have 37 wells waiting on completion.
We'll be working that all.
But that's going to allow us to keep our volumes strong through the year.
Going to an Appalachia discussion on Slide 17 we have more than 135 000 net acres with Marcellus Shale potential.
About 2/3 of that acreage is HBP.
We're currently producing 146 million and we've reduced our rig count as we've noted.
We do have about 6 million to 8 million a day shut in net shut-in volumes in Appalachia as we have some ongoing offset activity.
But one of the most exciting things that's occurred up there in the last quarter is in our central area and you'll it depicted on the map our 4 wells that we brought on there had average IPs of 7.2 million a day from average laterals between 4 600 and 4 700 feet.
So that's something that we're going to take a look at.
And we actually may end up drilling some more wells there in the second half of the year than we had originally forecasted based on these results.
And finally we're doing some similar activities up in Appalachia to enhance our production as we have in the Haynesville and we're looking at our seasoning time and completion method.
We're managing our simultaneous operations and we're going to drill where we think we have the best opportunities to realize the economic -- good strong economic returns.
And finally I'll note that we have a good inventory of wells in Appalachia as well that we'll be completing during the year.
Again even with the reduced rig activity we will still bring in a significant number of wells online.
Slide 18 depicts our non-shale assets.
It's a significantly large part of our portfolio more than 20% of our net production.
We are drilling a lot in those as we noted.
As always we're only drilling in the Permian area there as always over the last couple of years.
We're waiting on prices to go back up and there will be some drilling locations that we can bring about when prices recover.
We're negotiating a joint venture opportunity with private investors in this portfolio and Doug will update us on that.
Slide 19 depicts Permian Basin and you can see on the map there the yellow depicts the acreage that we currently hold.
That's more than 25 000 acres depicted right there.
Now that's where we're doing the bulk of our Canyon Sands or all of our Canyon sands development.
But right in that area we're testing Cline and Wolfcamp opportunities.
We've drilled I think 4 vertical wells at this point.
We've taken core samples.
We're analyzing that and will evaluate if we want to drill the horizontal well in this part of our portfolio later this year.
The waterflood has been very successful.
It's doing just as we had forecast.
We've seen well up to 470 barrels of oil a day during the last week and the forecast EUR of 875 is going to be moving into the proved reserve category as we realize the results that we had hope for.
We still have a really good cash margin out here.
Now one more thing before I get off of this page is on the map you can see that both -- that to the South the West to the North of our acreage there's some active horizontal drilling in both the Cline and the Wolfcamp.
We're encouraged by results that we're seeing from our competitors but we're also encouraged by the results we're seeing from some of our vertical testing in core.
So standby for news on that.
The last slide I'll talk about is on Page 20 TGGT.
We have current throughputs approximately 1.5 Bcf a day.
We've done a good focus on cost control here and we're looking at an annualized EBITDA run rate based on our most recent months of around $150 million.
And of course EXCO share would be half of that.
The EBITDA is up 22% from the first quarter.
All of our capital programs are being funded from a combination of cash flow and debt.
We haven't had any drawdowns of late.
I don't see that we foresee any additional debt drawdowns in the immediate future.
And we are working with an -- our equity partner to evaluate the sale of the interest here.
With that I will turn it back over to Mr.
Miller who will open it up for questions and answers.
Okay.
And as you can kind of see that even though we're in difficult times we have a lot of people who've been through this before.
It was worse than this in the '80s and the guys that came out of that had liquidity and there are lot of transactions during the '80s.
And so it lasted a lot longer but we had shallower decline gas and oil.
Both commodities went down at once.
I think this is the first time in my history probably Steve's also that one commodity crashed and the other one went up.
So from a service company standpoint I think they like it better because as idiots like us quit drilling there's other guys that are way smarter than us out in the oilfield that will take the rigs.
So I think you can kind of see with the power plants switching from coal to gas in many of the ones that we're in contact with are shutting down coal and many many more gas-powered plants coming online here in the next couple of quarters.
So they're taking up gas.
Many of them have been in here.
I don't think many of them are hedged so a lot of them are looking for long-term contracts.
We're also starting to see nat gas go into vehicles.
We know it works.
Boone has been at the forefront of that.
It works in cars trucks.
But I think you're starting to see -- in the oilfield you're actually seeing people switch drilling rigs to the natural gas and you're starting to see frac fleet switch to natural gas too.
So a lot of demand in the oil and gas fields for nat gas.
It really saves costs and it works like a charm.
But I think the big thing that everybody is up in over is shipping gas to other countries at least 1 permit has been approved.
I know there's another 10 underway.
I think that could begin as early as '15 or '16.
Keep in mind there is real economics in that.
We're producing gas like dopes at $3 today.
And the Chinese and the Japanese are paying $15 to $18 an Mcf.
Now it cost a lot of money to build a plant.
It costs a lot of money to get it over there but the math really does work.
And so I think there's a lot of guys talking about -- and I noticed here this last week India is having a little bit of problem.
I think they had half their population without power a couple of days ago because of their grid.
But they're a significant buyer also.
They're not paying exactly what China and Japan is but they are paying and looking for a lot of gas.
And I think the other thing once we get into shortage either this winter or next winter -- now we do have a lot of import facilities because they were all built because we were the highest user with the highest prices.
I don't know a lot of people that will bring LNG to the United States at $3 or $4 or $5 or $6 when there's somebody in China willing to pay them $18.
I may be wrong but I don't see many of those people.
So I think -- and I also don't believe like a lot of analysts are saying that now that gas is up to $3.08 that people come rushing back in to drill wells.
We have checked our portfolio and checked other people's portfolios and the economics on the conventional gas across the country you can't even make a reasonable rate of return until it's north of $6.
Some of the shales start turning on at $4 and $5 but not many of them.
So people are saying "If gas goes back to $4 we're going to flood the market with gas." Ain't happening.
People are saying "If gas goes back to $5 we're going to flood the market with gas." It ain't happening.
So I think we have a little debate going on here but I can tell you that the people in the industry that I know will not be moving rigs back in at $4 or $5 or $6.
With that come I'm going to shut up and turn it over to questions.
Matthew? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Looking at your gas production which was above the top end of the guidance and then kind of the comments that you made in terms of some of the improved well productivity in the Haynesville when you consider the well productivity gains and your backlog there does that make sense that your gas production should still fall here over the next couple of quarters? Well the answer is yes.
When you have 22 rigs running and you shut it down as fast as we did it just automatically going to fall.
I think our guys are doing everything they can to work the problem.
But these things as you've seen 70% 80% first-year decline rate.
And even with the choke that we're putting on -- Marcia what are the first year declines on these things? Well we're running probably about 60%.
60%.
So even with the restricted choke instead of 80% or 90% we're still running 60%.
So a lot of wells came on here in the last 12 months.
And I think you're just seeing that decline and the reduced activity.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And if we look at that strong performance of nat gas during the quarter would you attribute the bulk of that to the productivity gains or was there an element of backlog reduction that went into that as well? Productivity gains would be #1.
Even as we were shutting the rigs down we've slowed down the fracs.
And today we only have 1 frac crew out there where 8 months ago we had 4 of them out there.
And so we just slowed down the fracs.
So we're bringing the wells on slower which gives us the backlog.
But that will be caught up by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we look at your asset sale and acquisition objectives should we assume that whatever proceeds you may get from some kind of TGGT monetization would be used to acquire gas assets or do you expect that the net asset sales you're contemplating will ultimately lead to a reduction in your debt? I would say reduction in debt.
We are looking at deals have bid on deals.
We're looking at both oil and gas.
And we're most comfortable bidding on gas in our neighborhood.
We have bid on 3 oil deals with a partner came close on one of them.
But I'm still of the opinion that we have -- it's 50-50 up to down on oil.
And I'd say we're 2 or 3 to 1 up to down on gas.
So we're leaning towards gas.
But any asset sale we made today would just reduce.
Research Division</strong> And would that then imply that any acquisition that you do would get funded by some kind of equity or equity infusion or it would just come out of it -- it would come out of debt or there'll be some additional asset sale? No it depends on the size Brian.
I think if we did -- if we raise $0.5 billion or $1.5 billion and reduce debt our borrowing base is going to probably be maintained and our cheapest cost LIBOR plus 175 is still that.
It just depends on the component of PDP and hedgeability.
So I'm leaning towards gas.
I think most people that are invested in us think of us as a gas company.
But we're having some pretty good success out in West Texas and we have seen some pretty good success and gotten close on a couple of Eagle Ford deals.
So we're looking at all it's just math.
Your next question comes from the line of William Butler with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> Looking at your restricted cash balance what is the minimum that that can go to? Do you anticipate going forward? It can go to 0.
The restricted cash is really us and BG.
That's our next 3 months of operating cost and drilling cost.
So if we went to 0 rigs well it can't go to 0 because we always have operating but it can get pretty close.
We're expecting it to be in the $40 million range by year end.
Research Division</strong> And then on the cost cuts -- with the cost cuts you've made so far both on the operating side and the G&amp;A side how much really left is -- how much is there left in the structure of the company to go down? I know you've all got it in your guidance I mean do we think that's kind of the bare minimum as we look at '13 or? No no no.
It just depends on the deals.
We have people right now -- we don't want to fire anybody.
We just don't want to do that.
It hurts and we don't have any bad people.
We have people that are aggressive and working on it.
There's a lot of other costs we're cutting tickets to ballgames and things like that were down.
And I mean it's just we're cutting everything we can.
But if gas goes down and we reduce to 0 rigs there -- we could have another cut.
The size of the company is reflected by these commodity prices.
We have great assets and great people and we'd like to keep them coupled.
And we have a couple things we're talking about selling and we got a lot of things that are potential to buy.
I think I'd like to buy some things and keep some of these people working.
But they -- it has to make sense.
Research Division</strong> May I switch on that in the Haynesville who were the net sellers in the Haynesville? The public operators or there's still plenty of private acreage? If I told you I'd have to kill you.
Research Division</strong> And then last question on the Marcellus with your improved results in Central PA what do we do with that since we're restricted with 1 rig and focusing on Lycoming? I mean it was good that we put that up but I mean does that change your plans or is it still just to...
Well I think we're meeting -- yes I hear you.
I think we're meeting and you'll note that we didn't tell you what county it was in because we don't want any of you guys out running around leasing.
There is acreage available.
We're working on a couple of plans there and I think we're going to detail that and see if want to buy any acreage in the neighborhood because the math looks pretty intriguing.
And so if we can -- good news about Chesapeake not being in the game much is acreage costs have come down in almost every play across the country.
So there is availability.
We're looking at that availability.
And before we put 4 rigs up there we're going to make sure our land position is proper.
I will add William that we are evaluating a 4-well development in the Central area that we could drill in the third quarter.
I'm not promising we will but we're looking at that as we speak.
So we may remove the rig over there for a brief period of time.
In lieu of other.
In lieu of other opportunities.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious in terms of your bank credit facility.
What's your next redetermination date? And you all mentioned you'd be 3.8x levered for the credit facility by the end of the year.
What's sort of the max allowable on the facility there? 4.5x is the covenant and our next redetermination is scheduled to be October.
Then we're already in discussions with the bank group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of the Marcellus can you give us some color on sort of where well costs are now? Where do you think those are trending to as we get further along in the year? Our development well costs are in the $6.3 million to $6.5 million per well range thats for drilling and completion and we're targeting getting down to around $6 million sometime early next year with aspirations to go below that during the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your conventional asset sales just curious in terms of how we should think about that structurally.
Would you guys like to potentially divest all of your conventional assets where you wouldn't own anything or would you want to sell an interest or is it kind of early to say what type of structure that might take? Well we're looking at -- it's called -- I'm calling it kind of a sidecar private MLP where it will be structured like an MLP where we've maintained an ownership we operated it and had distributions.
I think everybody is intrigued with that.
Many private equity guys have shown interest.
We've had an offer or 2 we have it out with 4 or 5 people and we'll be getting those back in.
And hopefully there's a transaction but nothing can be assured.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On TGGT so the net was up quite a bit.
The throughput was up I guess.
It was flat overall and your equity throughput was up.
I'm just curious some more color on how you were able to squeeze so much more out of the cost line and the outlook for that? And if you have the TGGT Q2 revenue number handy? I don't think I have TGGT in front of me Subash.
I can follow-up with you on that.
The bottom line is when you've got an organization that for a year has been scrambling to reinstall rebuild facilities from our incident last year just like when we're running with 30 rigs on the corporate side it's the focus of the organization.
And once that got done in the beginning of the second quarter we started looking hard at costs and seeing where we're going to be more effective.
So as compared to guidance prior guidance the revenues are higher than we anticipated because of the flatter EXCO throughput.
But most of the -- a lot of the deed is going to be related to the cost side.
And I will add that we've had a significant reduction contract labor there as well similar to what we did in the upstream.
We've had some cuts in the employee headcount as well.
And to kind of follow up on that it's also -- we staffed up to build a couple hundred million dollars a year of projects and those are all behind us.
And I think you can figure out what the revenue is.
We were running 1.5 Bcf average throughput through there a day and we probably averaged $3.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess I'm trying to understand how more equity revenues probably dumb question but how more equity throughput increases your revenue.
So do you -- you just charge more for equity? No.
It's a contract.
It's simple math more volumes at the same rate equal more revenues.
The bulk of the TGGT's revenues come from the gathering trading transportation et cetera that we charge.
EXCO is an arms-length organization.
It's the same rate we charge any third party...
Yes we have other operators on the system and they get charged the same thing we do.
It is a standalone animal.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But in Q1 wasn't throughput around 1.5 Bcf too or do I have the wrong number there? No it was right at it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll just follow up later.
And then -- so in the contractors do they show up in lifting costs or G&amp;A costs? EXCO contractors? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Depends on type of contractors.
I mean they are all over the place.
We could have IT contractors in G&amp;A and we have well head contractors that are in LOE.
And some in capital.
And some in capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the Marcellus do you expect -- I think you said earlier in your public comments that you expected growth.
And I'm just reading I guess the ops update.
What are your latest thoughts on how many wells you want to complete out there this year? We're still sticking with the original budget plan that's noted in the press release so that could alter.
I think we put some language in the press release that we're evaluating that as we speak and it could change our activity levels as such.
But right now our target remains to drill 49 gross wells that's 12.4 net.
Wed complete them.
So we'll complete on the order of about 40 wells this year.
That ain't going to move the needle.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on my end on the TGGT side do you have an estimate or current thinking on what let's say next 12-months EBITDA will look like at an exit rate basis from 2012? So I guess what '13 EBITDA will look like based on the new cost improvements year-to-date? Yes I mean we're expecting fourth quarter EBITDA kind of annualize based on the guidance at about $140 million.
And I think that as we've kind of said going back to some prior questions too about the difference in production and is that going to change your forecast what's happening to us is our -- we're going to bottom out in our decline rate sooner rather than later.
And as we've kind of talked about early on that if you look at our fourth quarter generally speaking annualized that's a pretty decent look at '13 all things being equal and subject to change.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So are the declines material enough to meaningfully impact that EBITDA rate that you're thinking currently? No.
No we're not -- what I'm saying is I think basically the fourth quarter volumes are reflective of what the bottoming out in our decline and our current capital expectations would do for us in '13.
And so that all translates right back into TGGT.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as it relates to the sale of that asset can you provide any color around maybe how conversations evolved with BG and the thinking of the sale there? And how that maybe helped move the process into a more formal type status? I think they're totally onboard we're in communication with them on a daily basis and everybodys aligned on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Haynesville what are current returns looking like on that $8 million well target current stroke? Right on 20% which is about our minimum.
So they keep showing me 20%.
So it looks like that's it.
Wed rather have 40%.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
All right.
Then last one on my end is just any indications yet from the bank group what the price tag might look in that following determination? Well we've had discussions and then course with 20 banks in there theyre kind of -- we have heard maybe $3 for next year but then we've heard from other ones $3.50 for it so I'm kind of guessing that they're going to settle in if nothing changes at $3.50 for next year going up a quarter to $0.50 a year to at top of $4.50.
That's kind of the indications we're getting.
But again I think they're all evaluating it.
I think coming in 3 months ago if you'd ask they are going down.
And today they're looking at maintaining.
Is that right Paul? That's what we have -- that's what we believe.
We haven't talked to him since yesterday so that's pretty current.
Your next question comes from the line of Raymond Pirrello with Pendulum Capital Markets.
Last quarter you guys made a statement that the sale of the TGGT pipeline will bring in about $500 million to $700 million to EXCO.
With the recent change in the price of natural gas do you see that valuation coming up some more or? I'm not ready to say that yet Ray.
That was for our 1/2 interest I think that was a target.
And we were in this negotiations and discussions where -- and one of the parties was in that range for 1/2 interest.
Part of the thing we're evaluating is 100% or 50%.
And I think you can stick with that range.
But I've been told to quit predicting so I'm not predicting anymore.
We're not winning the Super Bowl this year.
All right.
Well last year you guys offered $18.50 a share for the company to take a private.
Based on the valuation of natural gas last year the levels at where they were and also the assets of EXCO you guys made the decision in that price.
Where do you see that valuation today for the price of EXCO? I mean if there was to be the same multiple used then today where would you put the price of EXCO on a pegging private number? It would be lower.
But I haven't looked at it.
I think back then we're -- the forward curve got up to $5.50.
I think the forward curve is $4.50 right now and that has a lot to do with it.
So capital budgets back then were faster.
Capital budgets today are slower.
I'm not going to sit here and predict numbers but it's lower than $18.50.
But it's purely price.
The assets haven't gone anywhere.
We're just differing drilling.
Okay.
In terms of the daily activity of the company what has Wilbur Ross activity been in terms of the bid activity of the company and/or these negotiations with these projects? He comes in every morning early and gets lunches for everybody and leaves late.
Wilbur is on the board.
He is a large shareholder.
We have a lot of dialogue with him.
He helps us.
He's a smart guy.
We met with him in New York last week.
He's got ideas.
He's got suggestions.
He's been through this before and he's somebody that we talk to 3 or 4 times a week.
But from an activity standpoint he got into this because he thinks gas -- he wanted to be a consolidator of gas.
He loves the idea of us acquiring more gas.
And as we look at deals we run them by him.
And so far we're totally aligned and trying to do the same thing he is.
Your next question comes from the line of Brad Pattarozzi with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the Marcellus acreage 2/3 held by production and going down to 1 rig currently how long can you stay at 1 rig and still hold all your acreage? Well 2 things.
We're evaluating -- we don't have to hold our acreage let's start with that.
We're looking at acreage that expires in the next couple of years and we have options to renew.
And with acreage costs going down if it's marginal then we'll let it expire because we can lease it cheaper.
All those are underway.
Just because acreage -- just because it's not held doesn't mean you can't let it go.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any focus on which area central versus northeast you would prefer to keep? We prefer to keep both but I'd say that both areas have spots where we're looking at leasing more and will ensure HBP.
And we're in good shape on the key areas.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And going to your commentary earlier on kind of gas prices in the current market and what basins are economic or not where would you need to see gas price to go back to 3 rigs in the Marcellus? Well we're having meetings on that right now.
I think where our acreage is we probably need $4.
If we were Cabot we'd only need $2.50.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the Marcellus you had some issues lately with the drought in the Northeast.
Any operational hiccups on your end? No.
No not any impact at all from excess water.
We spent a lot of time and a lot of effort and a lot of money over the last 3 years insuring our water supply and our water disposal.
And so we're in great shape.
The next question comes from the line Nathan Weiss with Unit Economics.
A couple of questions regarding production and the productivity enhancements.
First it looks like you actually revised up last quarter's gas production by a little over 4 million a day.
Is that correct? It's the effect of the NGL breakout in our Permian.
Okay.
But the total production number both from the Qs and the slideshow actually went up from what you reported in the second quarter.
I mean we are on a non-equivalent basis reporting a little more volume because we are reporting the NGLs.
Okay.
Secondly can you talk about your backlog of uncompleted wells from the end of the first quarter to the end of second quarter? I think we have it on the chart Nathan.
Did you miss the call? No I was sitting here.
It's actually pretty entertaining but...
Okay it's in there.
You have it on the tip of your tongue.
We'll point you to the right slide.
I mean you show on the Appalachia like on 17 but you actually...
You're talking about wells drills and not completed? I think we have 37 in the Haynesville and how many we have in Appalachia? 28.
28.
As of June 30.
Yes as of June 30.
And we did one...
In the first quarter call you actually -- or in the slide show you only show the Appalachia breakout you don't show the...
The first quarter well I don't have all my slides from the first quarter.
This is now the second quarter.
Similar number.
Understand.
Just trying to change from first quarter to...
Got you got you.
We can get that.
We'll get it back to you.
I can't remember.
I'll say probably it was less because we had more rigs and we -- I think we had 2 frac fleets working.
Same thing in the Haynesville I think we were 4 going to 3 frac fleets.
So the wells that are waiting on completion is a product of frac fleets.
And we only have 1 in each area working.
We'll get back to you on that.
Do I have your phone number? Sure.
Okay.
I can shoot you an e-mail.
I don't think I've ever called you back.
I think we've talked a couple of times actually but..
No I'm kidding I'm kidding.
And then last question looking at curtailments I mean you went to 72 -- or to 22 million sequentially.
So the underlying production increase the 13 that you reported was net of that $50 million? Yes yes.
And that's a product of slowing down activity.
As we're drilling more wells and have more frac leads we shut in the offset production.
And so our guys have done a good job but most importantly our activity goes down we don't have as many shut-ins.
Keep in mind our guidance -- original guidance for Q2 embedded in that was about -- was 20 million to 25 million a day of net shut-ins.
So the 22 million that we reported was right in line with what we expected.
So the outperformance is not because of a reduced volume shut-in it is purely the wells are performing materially better than we initially anticipated.
Your next question comes from the line of Anne Cameron with BNP Paribas.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the restricted choke the new restricted choke the 18/64th.
Can you quantify what that does to your tight curve and the sort of the first and the second year decline? I thought you'd never ask.
Are you still playing softball? Research Division</strong> I am.
Okay.
Marcia can you answer her question? Well I mean the intent there is -- on the restriction is to write in the initial -- the IP so we're bringing those down at a starting point to around 11 million 12 million a day and that affects then the initial decline.
It flattens out mainly affecting years 2 3 and 4.
So I don't have the number in front of me exactly but it does flatten out the curve and therefore we're getting a little higher EURs as a result of that.
No I mean operationally -- Mike we're leaving the pressure out more so it's staying open longer.
Is that right? That's correct higher pressure.
Yes.
So it's keeping the pressure higher longer in those fractures and I think the idea is we're getting slightly more gas out even at a slower rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so from the first month to let's say the 12 month what do you think that decline is? What we were saying is like 50% to 60% from the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
And what we had before was a completely different profile where we're -- I'm paying at 20 million a day.
The initial month decline was -- the first month decline was 90-some percent flattened out it will be a factor of point A to [indiscernible] so it's a completely different profile much flatter.
And as I mentioned we really believe it's a result of keeping the conduits and the reservoir open longer by keeping the pressure from -- flatter through that profile in the reservoir keeping it open longer.
Anne I think the thing that I look at is from present value standpoint the crossover from our old way to this way -- Marcia when do we produce the same amount of gas as we did the old way? Well we're looking at slightly 1 year to 1.5 year.
Like between 12 and 18 months we're producing the same amount of gas.
But with the new one our -- the production rate after crossover is significantly higher.
Is that right? Yes.
So what we're saying is the higher rates in years 2 and 3 as a result of this and therefore propping up that base production.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Did we answer it did we answer it? Research Division</strong> Yes yes yes you did.
I think I can work with that.
And then the second question is about the cost in the Haynesville.
From your reduction down to about 8 how much of that say from 9.5 is service cost coming down? And how much of it is efficiency gains? And I guess sort of coupled with that how much -- what's really happened to your cycle time like your spud-to-spud between wells? Boy you hit it one right down right up the middle for Harold.
Harold take it.
Okay.
On the cost side really there's a -- the function -- the cost reduction efforts are really a function of changes -- in design changes that we've made [indiscernible] changes in procedure in terms of our 2-bit procedure and then obviously the market adjustment.
So in trying to take a look at that to say "Okay what is controllable from a standpoint of design specifications?" I would say "2/3 of that number that we've realized to date are things that are controllable to the changes procedural changes and design changes." So let's say about 2/3 of that reduction is truly on our side.
And then the rest of it is rig and mostly frac fleets.
Correct.
And I will add that about 1 year ago or so our spud to rig release time was probably 40 to 42 days.
The last 16 wells our guys have drilled the spud-to-rig release time is 35 days.
So we're seeing some definite improvement in our drilling efficiency.
That's significant savings because I think we look at that on a daily full about 60 000 a day.
So everyday we save on that average of 60 000 even though the contract drill -- the rig is only 20 of it.
Your next question comes from the line of David Neuhauser with Livermore Partners.
I wanted to kind of touch on what you mentioned earlier regarding a large shareholder who were saying there's a -- there's still a substantial disconnect in the current equity price based on the bounce in price of gas from Q2.
So I kind of want to touch on I think what's management's view and the board as far as the cost of that? Well I mean I think a little bit of it is a result of not doing the go private.
So we have a lot of [indiscernible] on it.
We've got a lot of new guys coming in shorting it.
We've got up to 35 million shares short.
So that's an extra 35 million shares we're lugging around as that goes.
And we're having to take a lot of bullets out there.
The guys that are short keep spreading rumors -- we're going bankrupt next week so I don't like it but we don't have time to really battle the battle.
So -- and being a gas producer has been like producing poison for the last 6 to 12 months.
And so what okay.
But I don't know I think it's a product of all of it.
Okay.
And then going forward I know obviously there's a bunch of balls in that air as far as what kind of acquisition on potential properties and opportunities as well at the same time monetization of some of the assets to help either alleviate debt or use that cash for other purposes.
I mean are you looking at maybe helping provide further clarity to the business model as we go into this end of the year here? And with those proceeds if you don't find the right opportunity for maybe an acquisition is there any potential to either look to buy shares back or special dividends things that help sort of create the confidence in the business plan going forward? You sound like you're a board member.
The answer is -- let's make it clear.
For the last 30 years we've been an acquisition and development-type company.
We have bought over $10 billion worth of assets over the last 7 years.
We've created a team that has been very instrumental and involved in the shale opportunities that now exist.
So we're changing on the run but if we were to sell assets and can't make any significant acquisition and we have to be disciplined at that and the reason I say you sound like a board member we have a lot of guys that want to buy stock and we have a lot of guys that have had discussions around special dividends.
So all of that's on the table.
But being clear about what the company is I think we are clear.
We're a gas company first and foremost and we've got a team set up to look at and acquire additional assets and we do have experience out in the oil areas and we're not afraid of bidding on them.
But I think -- think of us as a gas company in spite of being bad.
And then just my last question.
I know there's a lot of -- again a lot of things going on.
But if you look out the next 2 years and not just 2013 which I think is still going to be somewhat challenging well let's say 2014 '15 '16 and prices are within the ballpark of where they are today.
I mean how do you look or envision EXCO -- the type of company EXCO will be a few years down the road? Will you be -- I know you're doing a lot of rationalization on the cost side.
So are you attempting to become lean and mean so that 3 4 years down the road you're this extremely strong powerful company? Or what's sort of your view looking at the company several years out? What do you want to -- what do you envision? We're pretty lean and mean right now.
We're just getting old.
But I would say if gas is $3.50 3 4 5 years from now we've made a mistake.
But we will have acquired a lot and we will have hedged a lot and the world would have come to an end because China -- as long as China is paying what they're paying and Japan is paying what they're paying gas ain't going to be $3.50.
But if it is we will be making acquisition and hedging them and be fine.
We just won't be drilling.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Hulme with Porter Orlin.
LLC</strong> Just a follow-up on Page 16.
The -- what kind of time frame or backlog does that 37 wells waiting on completion? You said it's a function of a frac availability or frac contracting.
So when you slow it down how long does it take to bring that on? And does that give you some kind of low cost -- low overhead costs production growth as you bring those on? Hal do you want to -- I mean I think that that's a product of having 5 rigs running and only 1 frac fleet and being able to time it.
It's an upside for us to have this on our books.
When we complete these we will move them into the proved category and we'll probably bring some 28 to 35 of those on this year.
We don't have any problem with our frac fleets.
We've got one under long-term contract.
So we're methodically going through and developing units and it's manufacturing mode and as these units are developed then we move into frac fleet.
And it's all scheduled and this is something that we'll work off very methodically and...
Yes.
The way I look at it is each one of those we've already spent $6.5 million.
And they're not in PDP.
And we're scheduling $1.5 million frac job.
Each one of those we spent another $1.5 million to bring them into PDP and significant production.
I mean -- I think the way their booked is proved behind pipe in the Haynesville and as we bring them on they go into PDP.
And it's just a timing and scheduling and we're able to save costs as we do it.
It's under our control.
Yes.
Each one of those is going to get approximately an 11-stage frac and it's going to take how long Harold each frac? For a 4-day job we're looking at 4 to 5 days typically 4 days.
We're just running daylight operation from the frac which was -- that's what we're doing right now.
Yes.
When we were going crazy Geoff we had 2 of the 4 that were working 24/7.
And so right now we're just working daylight.
It's safer but it's a little slower and we're not in a hurry to put gas on at $2.14 or whatever it is.
Your next question comes from the line of Amine Benali with Manulife Asset Management.
At the end of your call you made a statement that people might be worried that if gas price was to be $4 $5 that -- in your words we might flood the market with gas.
And I think you're referring to the industry.
I wanted to ask more about your insight or what gives you confidence that that is not going to happen? And that's the only question I have.
Okay.
The main thing is we look across our asset base which is pretty common.
We have Cotton Valley we probably have 1 500 development locations in there that we've taken out of the proved category and move them to probable and possible.
At current costs that takes between $6 and $6.50 to make an economic return.
So we're not going to drill it.
And we happen to know 50 other operators in the neighborhood that will not be drilling them also because the economics -- we could actually go to the Bakken if we were in the heart of it which we're not and we're not going.
But those rate of returns are probably 70% 80% up there.
And so if Chesapeake or XTO or one of those guys if they have x amount of capital to spend I think they would logically look at what's my highest rate of return and let's spend the capital there.
But if you go to the Rockies you go to Appalachia you go to West Texas you go to the Barnett and look at what kind of -- what price gas do you need to move rigs in and begin developing again 90% of the assets out there take somewhere between 5 and 8.
I mean we have areas in the Haynesville where we won't drill unless gas gets to 8.
So which means it's totally off the table right now.
But I think there's very few areas of this country that are pure gas where people will drill under $4 $5.
And you have look at the operators too.
In fact to Doug's point just because the Basin might start becoming economic at a certain level you have to look at who the operators are and what their other capital allocation could be.
And so unless oil gets below 60 and in some places maybe 80 there are better returns that's still going to be on the oil plays that most companies have either leased up and so now they have the same drill hole -- on the oil plays as they did on the gas or it's just pure economics...
We've just gone through a period where there are 3 or 4 operators that had 50 to 180 rigs running that weren't drilling them based on economics.
They were drilling based on whole acreage.
And I think they've all slowed down now because acreage costs are coming down so I think you're going to get a more disciplined industry allocating their capital to making rates of return.
I can't even believe that's going to happen.
No I appreciate that.
So as we're watching the gas rig count collapse and hopefully dip below 500 then we can take comfort and maybe some of that is sustainable or at least some of that...
No no.
I think that's right.
And I think we can debate when gas is going to start going up.
And our opinion when we were going private it was going to be a 3- or 4-year period but I can't expect the gas to go to 3.
Since it's done to 2 and below you've seen reports of some of the largest operators including somebody like Encana and Chevron and some of those guys say "We're not drilling dry gas anymore until further notice." Once they move out of those areas they usually don't come back in a week or 2.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to our presenters for any closing remarks.
Okay thanks Matthew.
I appreciate everybody being on the call.
I hope we answered all questions.
I think we have 1 or 2 to get back to -- Nathan I got that one.
And we appreciate everybody.
Our noses are down and our butts are up.
We're working hard as we can and we're looking at costs.
You can see a product of the work the first half of the year.
We'll continue to look at costs.
Everybody here is working as hard as they can in a really really tough gas environment.
And I think the fruits of our labor you'll be seeing by the end of the year.
Thanks everybody.
Bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Michelle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources Incorporated Third Quarter Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn this call over to Mr.
Doug Miller Chairman.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you very much.
I have with me today Mike Chambers; Harold Jameson; Lanny our illustrious lawyer to keep me to keep me straight; Steve Smith; Doug Ramsey; Mark Wilson; Marcia Simpson and Tyler [ph].
So we'll stick with you as long as we can.
We really did debate on having this call today because of what's going on in New York.
It turned out worse than we thought but we have so many things on the agenda we thought it was appropriate.
We basically do talk to about 75% of our shareholders in person and anybody that misses this feel free to call me or Steve and we'll go over any questions you have.
But we thought it was appropriate to go ahead and get it done.
We're not sure when the New York Stock Exchange is going to open up and after last night I'm still not sure.
A little report from our operations that thing hit Pennsylvania pretty hard.
Our rig is still working this morning.
All frac fleets are shut down.
All of our flowback wells have been shut and all people are present and accounted for and on the job.
So we made it through pretty well.
But I would expect a lot of rigs and a lot of frac fleets for a while are going to be slowed down just because moving around -- a lot of water a lot of wind and a lot of dangerous trees around.
So I think it's going to slow down operations up there for a while.
With that we're going to get kicked off.
Steve only gave me one slide this time.
He's trying to keep me quiet.
What we have done over the last little while is again -- oh oh sorry Ramsey.
I was skipping you too.
You better read that.
All right.
Thanks Doug.
I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to Pages 18 and 19 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as the cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Okay.
Did Lanny make that longer this time? It seems like it.
I think what we've had going here the last 6 months because of gas price has been a real effort to maintain our capital programs within our cash flow and we brought down our drilling rigs and with that our people count's gone down.
So we'll get into that in a minute.
But it's been an initiative that's been well done around here.
Some of it's not fun and some of it's not happy.
But that's happened and Harold will get into in a minute cost reductions on some of our wells have been significant.
So going from 22 rigs over in the Haynesville to 5 rigs was a challenge.
They met it and what's happening over there right now is we've been spending time on cost reductions and maximizing the production out of those wells and they've done a great job.
We also after weathering the storm of $2 gas when gas popped up here a little a month ago in the last few weeks we did put some hedges in for '13 '14 and '15.
Those are on the slides.
We've been -- we'll look further.
But right now I think we're within 1 week or 2 of starting some peak demand and I think you're going to see like we've been kind of predicting that storage isn't going to get overfull and we're going to start having some cold weather coming in.
I'd say we're 1 week or 2 away although I'm starting -- we're starting to see some.
We actually got down to the 30s a couple of times last week so the gas was on.
Again cost reductions Steve will get into that.
Rig count way down.
We did have our bank meeting with all our banks in.
It looks like it's going to be approved.
We should know by the end of the week that $1.3 billion.
Most of the initiatives that we're working on we're looking at a private MLP a public MLP.
We've actually had discussions about a public MLP on the pipeline and we're reviewing that with BG right now.
But the probability is that's going to be a sale.
Again we're working with BG on that right now.
That initiative should be -- all of these things we're working on and should be -- have some discussions if we sign purchase agreements.
We're looking at a lot of deals.
Deal flow is the highest I have seen since the '80s.
Many private companies that would like to close by the end of the year for tax they're a little bit worried about who might become president as I am.
So I think there's a lot of those things and I'd say 15 or 20.
We're focusing on the Haynesville.
We're focusing -- we're looking at quite few deals then the Eagle Ford 2 or 3 that we're very interested in pursuing.
2 or 3 deals in the Haynesville and of course we're looking at additional deals up in the Marcellus a lot of activity.
We're not looking in the Bakken.
We're not looking in the Rockies and we are looking at a couple deals in the Mississippi lime.
I'm just not sure we've got it figured out yet but we are looking there.
But I'd say 15 20 deals.
Some very attractive if we can get them bought and we do have partners lined up that are very interested in doing deals with us.
And so we're in constant contact with them as we look at these things.
We're managing our base decline.
With 5 rigs running after having 22 rigs our Haynesville production is declining.
We're doing the best we can on that and although we are still choking it back -- there's no reason to run those things full out but I think Marcia would agree that our EURs are probably going to be better if we manage it this way.
We have signed a couple of processing deals over in the Cotton Valley that has liquids.
One of them is -- Tyler [ph] both of them signed or just one? One signed; one of them in negotiations.
One in East Texas; one in North Louisiana.
Both of them will give us a fairly significant uplift in our cash flows.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Steve and let him go through some financials.
All right.
Let's take a look on Slide 5 the corporate highlights.
Schedule we're -- we had a quarter in which we exceeded our guidance by a little bit and I think our midpoint was around 510 Mmcfe/d.
We came in at 512 Mmcfe/d.
Obviously we're down some both from last year as well as from the second quarter.
But we're down 6%.
Luckily and fortunately the gas price did go up in the third quarter and up to an average -- well we have an average overall commodity price of $3.01 compared to $2.36 last quarter and $4.14 a year ago so we're making headway there.
Our revenues were better than we expected and better than second quarter because of the price increases offset of course by a small decline in production.
Operating costs were again a high point for us.
We got them further reduced between the first and -- I mean the second and the third quarter and we're quite a bit less 17% or so less than we were a year ago.
So that's a strong point at this juncture.
On adjusted EBITDA we exceeded our expectations there and that also was primarily a result of the increased average price for the quarter.
So overall operating costs at $0.37 are down from last year -- I mean from last quarter and from last year.
Cash G&amp;A is down 22% year-to-date and so overall it was -- we did have as we predicted another noncash ceiling test write-down in the third quarter of $318 million.
That's based on an average gas price -- or a 12 -- trailing-12 gas price of $2.83.
So we're expecting we'll have probably some sort of write-down in the fourth quarter but hopefully we're starting to gain on the price a little bit.
On page 6 is a schedule that shows where we are from an operating rigs standpoint and a cost standpoint.
And Michael will get into this a little more but we're down to 7 rigs overall which is down 70% between years -- I mean since the end of the year with 5 in the Haynesville 1 in the Marcellus and 1 in the Permian.
On the bright side our well costs are expected to reach $8 million pretty easily by the end of the year.
In fact I would say they're at $8 million now.
And just to give you an example of how important that is at the current strip an $8-million well cost will be about a 32% rate of return.
At a $3.30 flat gas price is about what it takes to get a 20% rate of return.
So that gives you some feel.
So it's an important fact that we have reduced those well costs as dramatically as we have.
Over on Page 7 Slide 7 there.
It just shows you what we've done in terms of cost cutting on LOE gathering and G&amp;A and all of those -- all of that progress has shown 27% reduction in LOE since the end of the year and 18% overall in all of those costs.
So we're pleased with the progress we have made on our cost cutting efforts and continue to look for ways to be more efficient and further reduce those costs.
Page 8 kind of lays out our liquidity situation at this point.
As Doug said we're closing in on the borrowing base at $1.3 billion.
With the cash that we have on the balance sheet we had liquidity of about $333 million as of the 25th of October.
And so we're -- again we're still looking to monetize some assets and further reduce our debt.
But we're in reasonable shape and we are operating within cash flow.
So that gives us quite a bit of comfort from that standpoint.
There's a table on the hedging and you can see it by year.
We're about 40% hedged for '13 30% for '14 and 17% for '15 with adding something like $110 million a day of hedges in -- since September.
So in oil were 54% hedged on oil.
Over on Page 9 is a comparison of the actuals for the third quarter with the guidance pretty much in line all the way down on the -- to the midpoint.
Our differentials to NYMEX were -- on gas were much better than we thought and that was because we were able to sell more at higher rates on a daily basis during the quarter in a period of rising prices.
So that was good.
The LOE we've talked about.
In cash G&amp;A we're a little over guidance there and that was because of some severance that we paid.
We did have -- we did reduce our force a little bit during the quarter and that was the impact of the severance.
EBITDA as I said because of price increases primarily exceeded what we thought at the midpoint.
And TGGT was much better than we thought primarily because of reducing cost and also because there were more third-party Haynesville production coming online that had been shut in by some of our customers so that was a plus.
Over on 10 is the overall quarterly guidance and the year-end guidance.
We're -- we've improved at the expected year-end guidance a little bit primarily because of price.
We're using a $3.50 price for the fourth quarter whereas we used a $3.25 pricing in -- predicted a $3.25 price last quarter.
So nothing particularly dramatic there.
We have increased again our expectation in the fourth quarter on the gas differentials and we're pretty much on what we've been expecting from a CapEx point of view.
So all in all a pretty decent quarter.
I'm going to turn it over to Mike Chambers to handle the overview of our operations.
Michael? Thanks Steve.
I want to start off by saying that we're very proud of the work our staff has done to reduce our capital and operating expenses.
We operate a little over 8 600 wells and if you look at our combined off and non-off [ph] gross production we're just a little under 2 Bcf a day.
So we move a lot of gas every day and we do it very safely and economically.
As Doug mentioned in Pennsylvania we're dealing with the effects of Hurricane Sandy.
We've curtailed some completion and construction operations as Doug mentioned.
We're seeing some minor effect from flooding but overall it shouldn't affect our production.
We shouldn't be changing the budget Doug for it.
Okay turning over to Page 12.
On the capital side you can see we ramped down very quickly from the 28 rigs we had about this time last year to the 7 we have today.
In Appalachia we've ramped down from 4 rigs to 1.
We'll still complete about 42 wells 8 in the central area and about 34 over in the Northeast area.
We're focusing on our acreage appraisal in our Central Development Area and we have currently 1 frac fleet running up there but we're going to be adding another here shortly to work off some of our completion inventory.
This is the best time of year to do it in our higher gas price window.
Similarly in the Haynesville we dropped from 22 rigs down to our current 5 but we'll still spud about 56 wells this year and turn to sales about 84.
And early in the first quarter of 2013 we should've spud our 400th Haynesville well to date.
Our development is still centered in our Holly core area where our best rates on return are.
And we've delineated our Shelby acreage and don't have to spud another well there to continue to farm-out until late in 2013.
Like Appalachia we currently have one frac fleet running and we'll be adding a second here in a couple of days to work off our completion inventory here in the higher gas price environment.
On the Cotton Valley side as Doug mentioned we're hooking up our last 2 fields to processing liquids in the gas stream.
We'll have the Holly field processing in the next couple of weeks and Danville field in the first quarter of '13.
On the Permian side we've been running from 1 to 2 rigs.
Currently we have 1 rig running out there and we'll drill about 35 Canyon wells and 1 Wolfcamp well.
We've continued to have great results in our Canyon production out there with greater than 50% rate of return on the projects we've seen.
We've been coring and testing the Cline and Wolfcamp.
We've done 3 Cline tests -- or we completed 2.
We have 1 more to go.
And we've done 3 Wolfcamp recompletions and all are looking very favorable.
We've also had great response to our first waterflood in the carbonate mound out there and we're looking at doing several others.
In TGGT we're wrapping up our major gathering and treating projects releasing rentals so we should much higher EBITDAs.
Flipping over on page 13 you'll see that we're spending about half of our 2011 expenditure and -- but we're staying within cash flow.
We've devoted it almost entirely to development drilling.
Our major capital and infrastructure projects like our road project down at Shelby our water gathering distribution projects in Holly and up in Lycoming are pretty much in as well as our seismic acquisition costs are.
Also in 2011 we spent a lot of money on maintenance capital on our Cotton Valley and other conventional wells so we don't have to do that right now.
Flipping over on Page 14 we get a little deeper into the East Texas/North Louisiana Haynesville and Bossier shales.
We're still producing over 1 Bcf a day gross operated production and 1.5 Bcf a day if you add OBO.
And as we mentioned we're continuing to focus our activity in the Holly area where Steve mentioned we're still achieving greater than 30% rate of return on our project.
We've been able to do that because we've been lowering our well costs.
We've been seeing several sub-$8 million well costs here recently.
A lot of that's due to our drilling efficiencies where we're still knocking off days in the intermediate hole section of the well but more on the completion side where we've had -- seen some service cost reductions and we've been changing our frac design.
In fact we've just completed our first unit with a 100% normal white sand.
We're very encouraged with those results that we're seeing versus using our historical intermediate strength process [ph].
But a lot of that probably has to do with our choke management program that's working very well.
We're sustaining higher pressures and much longer -- for a much longer time which should result in additional reserves and we're also seeing the benefits of lower temperatures where we've been able to eliminate coolers which is helping our operating costs.
And our serve times have translated into a lot less water hauling.
In fact we've done some work on our disposal systems and our trucking costs were about half of what they were earlier in the year.
We're also very happy with our control room which is continuing to add value.
It operates 24/7 here in Dallas.
We've been doing a lot of work scheduling our maintenance so that our downtime is typically less than 5% right now.
But more importantly their quick reactions to pipeline interruptions with our automated chokes have allowed us to quickly bring down our wells and bring them back up without having to send anybody out there to them.
Flipping over on Page 15 we'd take a look at Appalachia.
We've scaled back the program to focus on appraisal and to be prepared for higher gas prices.
By year end we have spud almost our 100th horizontal well there in the Marcellus.
Our major water gathering disposal in Lycoming system is in.
We've laid over 28 miles of large gathering and distribution lines up there.
We've also seen great results from our 2 recent wells in Armstrong County.
In fact their last 6 wells over there have IP-ed better than 7 million a day.
Our drilling costs have continued to decline through a combination of efficiencies and service sector pressure to we're now less than $6 million per well up there.
We've been seasoning our wells or shutting them in for about a month up there and this has shown about a 90% decrease in water production.
Where you have $20-per-barrel disposal costs this is a huge cost advantage for us.
And we're also continuing to modify our completion design up there.
At one time we used to pump as much as 750 000 pounds of sand per stage and we've been doing tests currently down around 250 000 pounds which translates into huge monetary savings.
And finally looking over on Slide 16 for TGGT.
We've had excellent throughput through the system with very little downtime.
Our major infrastructure projects are in.
And in fact we're wrapping up one of the last ones in -- over at Holly 3 right now.
We'll spend a total capital of about $132 million over there this year but most of that has been on these major projects so we should see much lower capital expenditures in the next years.
These expenses have also allowed us to release a lot of our rental equipment.
In fact we're releasing 4 100-gpm new units in the next couple of weeks.
We've had those units since the start of the Haynesville so that's going to have a huge effect on our operating costs over there.
We're seeing just in this quarter an EBITDA of about $42.5 million and by year end we're projected to be over $158 million.
And obviously we're still as Doug mentioned working on partner valuations to monetize the assets.
With that I'll turn it back you Doug.
Thanks guys.
With that we'll open it up for questions.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
You've highlighted over the last few quarters the fall in costs in the Haynesville and your goal of $8 million.
Can you just talk to how much of that you view as cyclical as a result of 2-something gas and how much you think will be secular and sustained in a $4-gas environment? And then I guess as long as we're talking about a $4-gas environment what kind of rig count should we expect you to run if these prices hold? Well I'm going to answer a little and then Harold is going to answer a lot.
I would say a significant amount of the cost is a result of too many frac fleets being built when they were making a lot of money.
We are -- as we go out for bid on frac jobs they have continued down and I mean it's unbelievable how many frac fleets are out there and how many people.
When these guys put them out for bid we're bidding 5 or 10 wells at a time and I'd say last time one of the major ones came in significantly lower.
Same thing out in West Texas.
We went out for bid on the fracs out there and they came in significantly lower.
But that's what I see and I do know there's rigs over there that have yards that don't want to move if they can help it.
So drilling -- I mean rig costs day rates are down slightly in the East Texas and North Louisiana and fracs but more than that Harold you're seeing a lot of other stuff.
Why don't you expound on that? Okay.
On the frac side I guess taking a look at our total cost reduction the -- really the biggest driver just going from the largest drivers and working our way down the list the market conditions on fracture stimulation that's the single largest driver in terms of cost reduction.
Just on the frac side alone we're seeing about a $900 000 cost reduction just on the total frac market conditions and in our design changes.
Out of that $900 000 I'd say about $600 000 of that is market adjustment and about $300 000 of that are attributed to design changes that we have made programming changes and design changes we've specified.
Working down the list procedural changes that we've implemented regarding our tube-up [ph] procedure.
We've changed our procedures in terms of tube-ups [ph] and the type tubing metallurgy that we use.
That's about a $200 000 savings on an individual well.
And then going down the list our cuttings management our overall rentals that's about a $125 000 reduction; rentals in general about a $100 000 reduction and then just our overall efficiencies.
We're still continuing to see improvements on drilling times.
We're currently around 37 days spud to rig release.
We've seen some wells lower than that but on average we're right at -- the 35 to 37-day range is the window that we're mostly in currently.
And I can always tell when we have one better because they bring in a chart on Monday morning when they're down on the 32 range.
So -- and they've had several of those lately.
So the bottom line is the costs are there because of slow down and probably overbuild of some of the service companies which happens every time it goes down.
To answer your question on $4-gas we're at $4-gas.
We're not going to add any rigs.
We think that -- I'd like to see the results of the power demand coming on and a normal winter to see what happens.
It wouldn't surprise me with the supply coming down because rig count has gone down and demand gone up and if we have any winter we won't be seeing $4-gas.
We'll be seeing $4.50 or $5.
And if that happens we still want running rigs.
We're going to be very peaceful about this.
We're looking for acquisitions.
And we think that's an appropriate if we can pull a couple of those off.
So I'd say -- we haven't done it yet but I'd say we're going to forecast 5 rigs for next year regardless of price and concentrate on some of these acquisitions.
And you're going to ask "Are you going to concentrate on gas or oil?" We're looking at both.
We've been on several oily ones and prices at $85.
People aren't getting what they were hoping for last year's price.
And we're bidding them right using an $85 flat price deck.
The other thing that is a challenge when we're bidding on these things is liquids prices have crashed where 6 months ago 8 months ago they were 60% of crude oil.
We'd see them 30% right now and we think that's going to be a while before it rallies.
So we're having a challenge and we've done a real study on when that should get better and it looks like it's about 2 years out.
So we're not forecasting any significant increase there and we're bidding that way.
Did I answer everything Brian? Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
From a macro basis we saw some of the state -- or some of the EIA data for Louisiana in June and July for gas production to be kind of flat to up versus May.
Do you think we see the big drop many are expecting in Haynesville production? I mean your quarter-on-quarter decline looks like we should but I meant that's one of the things that people are really waiting for.
Yes.
I think we had -- our gas production actually went up during that period because we were ramping from 22 rigs down and we were just bringing them on and it just took that much time to get them put on and I think a lot of people had the same thing.
But I think with Chesapeake Encana and us and BHP over there I have a feeling that you're going to see by the end of the year we're going to see significant declines in the Haynesville.
We've seen Chesapeake and Encana and several others curtail production but they have brought that back on so that's...
[indiscernible] Yes.
So a little of it is stalled because they curtailed and brought it back on.
But that's over with.
So I think you'll start seeing some fairly significant decline.
But that's you're seeing in the EIA data is their curtailment.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see if you had anymore color on sort of expected timing for the TGGT monetization.
Oh geez Leo it was about 6 months ago is when we have the timing.
We're working with a partner on this thing and we have 4 offers in and we're working with somebody and we're in discussions with BG.
BG still owns half of it.
And we're in discussions with BG right now on how to do it.
I think expect an announcement within the next week on which approach we're taking because I think I finally got an agreement with BG yesterday or we both agreed.
So we'll be announcing that here over the next week.
The bottom line is I told everybody July 4.
I forgot to tell you which year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Obviously I think you did a good job kind of addressing how you're thinking about spending on acquisitions versus drilling here.
Just wanted to kind of dig into a couple of the areas.
You talked about going to a second frac crew in the Marcellus.
Wanted to get a sense of what the backlog of wells there was and I guess to be standstill [ph] and just say down the road who knows when we get to the kind of right price on gas would you see Marcellus ramping up first or Haynesville kind of ramping up first any clarity? Well it depends.
We're looking at some acquisitions.
I would say better shot at buying some Haynesville deals right now.
So $4.50 $5-gas I bet Mike would like to drill a couple more but we're not in a hurry on drilling because even at $5 gas our F&amp;D cost is probably $1.50 to $2 in both spots.
And at that market if you don't escalate too much you're buying gas cheaper than that.
I mean it's just -- it's kind of a math problem.
I would rather buy PDP in hedges than take the risk on drilling or paying for a bunch of acreage.
Right now we have quite a bit of acreage especially up in the Marcellus.
It's all HBP.
We can be very peaceful and very managed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you okay.
And what is that completion backlog in the Marcellus right now that you guys talked about working down? Well not much but go ahead.
I think...
I'd have to pull the exact number.
Tyler [ph] do you have that number? 25 wells.
25 waiting on completion Slide 15.
Okay.
But I mean that's just the second fleet for the rest of the year.
We'll have that knocked out by first quarter yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then I guess you talked about doing some science work in the Permian as well.
When would we expect maybe if -- you guys to tackle the horizontal side and drill a couple wells horizontally here? I think our West Texas group wants to spud tomorrow.
We have done some science work.
We're waiting on some cores aren't we Marcia to come back from core labs.
I think we want to do that first.
It's mostly HBP.
We have some opportunities on some acreage.
We're watching other people's results which have been pretty good in our neighborhood.
Again we don't have to be in a hurry on it.
But I'd say first half of next year.
We were kind of forecasting the fourth quarter this year but I'm going to delay it until next year.
We don't have to rush the monkey as Boone would say.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of Haynesville wells the costs are down to $8.2 million from $9.5 million at year-end '11.
Are we talking apples-to-apples in terms of same depth same lateral lengths? Yes.
That's unfortunate but the answer is yes.
Those are all DeSoto Parish.
Yes that's all DeSoto Parish which is the shallower of the 2 areas.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And you cite the AFEs and so I just wanted to confirm that the AFEs match the actual cost when all is said and done.
Oh you sound like me Joe.
Why don't you ask Mike how we go about that? Oh definitely I've got to count it right here.
He checks me every month.
Yes the actuals are tracking...
The thing about it is early on we were higher but what we do as we look at the last 10 wells the last 30 wells and I would say we're on or below AFE over half the time right now.
Mark? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> That helpful okay.
And then your gas differentials actually looked better than what you had modeled and your forecast going forward is better.
What's going on there? We're marketing better.
I'm kidding.
I think -- we're marketing aggressively by the day instead of just signing up by the month and letting everything happen.
So we have a group down there that's doing daily marketing.
Somebody needs some extra gas and we can get an extra nickel for it.
That's where it's going.
We have -- TGGT has 17 different outlets including Florida Power [ph] and Southern Houston [ph].
So on a daily basis it varies.
And so we're just spending a lot of more time doing a lot more marketing.
In a price -- rising price environment during the third quarter.
Yes that helps too.
Research Division</strong> Very helpful.
And then for LOE you were down in the third quarter but then you're guiding up again in the fourth quarter.
So what's the change there? That's Steve just trying to look good.
Well you know...
I think we've done about everything we can.
We have lifted every rock -- we're still lifting rocks but I don't know that there's much more -- I don't know what that -- I think that's probably more of a result of the Cotton Valley is going to be a slightly bigger percentage of our total production than it was this quarter which is higher operating costs from an [indiscernible].
I don't -- we don't expect any changes but the Haynesville is like $0.10 and the Cotton Valley is like $1.50 and it's flat and the Haynesville is coming down.
I have a feeling that's what's going on.
Anybody have any other comments? I think it's a little -- in fact a little lower volume.
Yes a little lower volume.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that's helpful.
And in terms of your acquisition plans and your divestiture plans so am I correct that one of the ideas behind your sales effort is to reduce debt and improve liquidity? Oh yes.
Sure yes yes yes.
I mean we've been working on the proper MLP since 1991.
And our conventional gas assets especially the Cotton Valley fit it like a glove because it's under a 10% decline rate and we've been working with several potential partners on putting into a private MLP.
We continue to work on it.
It isn't done yet but if we can get that done that asset -- and that's about $700 million of total assets.
If we get that done it will reduce EXCO's revolver significantly and give us a lot of dry powder.
But that's not absolutely the driver.
It's just the right spot for those assets to be in a low gas environment.
There are several of those type of assets out there and I call this kind of a parking lot for conventional gas if we can get it set up.
We're seeing quite a few of those deals out there in the market.
A lot of companies even smaller than us want to continue drilling shale and they're selling their conventional and we'd like to have a spot for it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Doug so what do you -- so what is $700 million? That's kind of the value of our conventional assets that we are thinking about putting in an MLP.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- okay so like if you're looking at selling the assets partly or maybe mostly to reduce debt and improve liquidity what's the sense of at the same time looking to acquire assets? Well that would allow us if we put it in the proper MLP -- we'll keep an interest in that and manage it.
That would have liquidity over there for those type of assets and whatever our equity whatever we get will reduce our revolver on the EXCO side and maybe give us $500 million $600 million $700 million of liquidity.
So potentially that gives us the ability to buy $1-billion $1.5-billion worth of deals without additional equity.
In the shale -- in our shale area...
In the shale area we really would like to focus on the areas with the highest rate of return and the lowest operating costs and we are trying to buy in both the Marcellus and the Haynesville.
I do believe that 3 years from now you're going to say the 3 areas that we're going to get 1/3 of our gas from: the Barnett the Haynesville and the Marcellus.
And we're going to be in 2 of the 3.
Research Division</strong> So as you improve your debt situation improve your liquidity by selling off assets are you then going to ramp that back up and tighten liquidity again by acquiring assets? We might.
Research Division</strong> I'm having trouble understanding you.
Is that...
But you will.
We'll try to explain it to you.
Next time you come in to Dallas call us.
We'll explain it to you.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then you mentioned -- what's going to happen over the next week? You've said you made an agreement with BG.
What in particular? Now what we're going to try to do is make a determination whether we're going to sell TGGT or put it in a MLP.
Research Division</strong> But you said you've made an agreement and you're going to announce something over the next week.
No.
We finally agreed to agree.
And we haven't signed up yet.
But I'd say by next week we will have an idea of which way we're going.
Research Division</strong> One thing I noticed you guys mentioned on the acquisition side -- or didn't mention the Permian this time.
Well I didn't -- we have been on 3 or 4 deals out in the Permian.
We are looking.
We're not afraid of the Permian.
There's obviously a lot of oil.
But one of the things that's a challenge out there on a lot of the deals we're looking at is they work like a charm at $95 oil not so good at $85 oil.
I mean it is right on the edge at $85.
I would say that some of the deals that we've looked at that are for sale we would do better buying in the Haynesville.
High operating costs a lot water in a couple of deals we've looked at.
Now there's going to be some spectacular deals out there.
We just haven't found the right one yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I noticed in the slideshow on the Appalachia Slide 15 the current production seemed pretty low at 108 Mmcf/day gross.
Where are we to make of that? It's below where the graph shows.
And I think you were like at 146 last quarter.
Is that just a blip? Or did something happened in...
That might have been total production.
This is just Marcellus.
I think what happens is we've got -- our total production shallow and deep is -- gross is about 200.
And our net is about 100.
Research Division</strong> Then that's not the same number as last quarter then compared to the 146.
I think the 146 is our Marcellus and our conventional and I think it...
Yes.
I think we just messed with you on that.
We didn't compare it to the last chart.
But I think that includes our shallow.
Right now our Marcellus operated is 105 and our Appalachia conventional is 37.
And our OBOs another 57 on top of that.
That gets you to the 199.
That's what we were Monday.
Research Division</strong> And then are we to read anything into just thinking about your outlook on natural gas prices? I mean you were talking in theory $4.50 to $5 but we're hedging at $4.20.
I mean what are we to make of that I mean? Well like you said we have a big debate in here like everybody does.
We're hedging our debt.
We're not hedging because we know what gas prices are going to be.
We don't trade it.
So because of our debt starts at $4 it gives us plenty of cash flow for next year and we're comfortable where we are.
If gas goes up a little we'll layer in some more hedges.
If we make acquisitions and put that on we will put more hedges on.
I mean it's a debt deal with us more than it is thinking we know what gas price is going to do.
We haven't been very good at predicting gas prices over the years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last point of clarity.
You all mentioned you've got -- you've done 3 Cline tests with 2 that are complete.
And how many Wolfcamp tests have you all done? Three.
We've done 3 recompletions on the Wolfcamp.
Research Division</strong> And then it's all 3 of those are done.
Yes.
And those are all vertical depths and they have positive oil in all 6 of them.
Research Division</strong> You all wouldn't necessarily release to us the results of that before you all drilled...
No we probably wouldn't.
There is a little bit of competition for acreage out in the neighborhood and before we start telling you what's going on we'd like to get some more acreage.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one last question.
When could we have sort of a more formal 2013 outlook? In connection with our year-end release.
Yes.
Give us -- we were planning on having it by now.
We've got a capital budget meeting with our board coming up.
And we've got a couple of transactions that we hope we can get across the finish line here over the next little while.
If we get both the capital budget and a couple of those things we'll have another -- we'll put out a press release.
Research Division</strong> In the Haynesville can you all talk about where the acquisition opportunities are? Are people willing to sell acreage in what you all believe to be the core area? You're killing me Jeff.
The answer is we are looking at a few transactions in that neighborhood.
Some potential trades et cetera.
We have land guys out there all the time.
If we lease anything it's going to be very small.
There are some small companies out there that have some that we're looking at.
It's tough to buy in the core area.
And I think Marcia probably across the Haynesville last I heard we have 21 different decline curves by area.
And so there is some B+ and some B stuff that still works and so we're looking at those areas also.
I'd say very tough in Holly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you look at acquisition opportunities and relative economics how would you compare what you see in the Haynesville or what might be available in the Haynesville versus oilier areas if you're talking about bidding oil at $85 flat and continuation of relatively weak NGL prices? I'd say it's starting to get where I think the oil price -- 6 months ago I was saying I thought there was $2 down for every $1 up.
I'd say it's getting to the place where we would have a little comfort zone.
But I'd still say with everybody in the world drilling for oil I think there's still some potential down for oil prices and we're looking for an asset that has enough production that we can hedge it and not have to drill 500 wells to hold the acreage.
We're not a very good guy at buying 5 million acres and seeing what happens.
That hasn't been our MO.
We leave that to Aubrey.
Research Division</strong> And lastly Doug you all talked about doing some processing agreements in East Texas for I think the Haynesville and maybe the Cotton Valley.
Can you talk about what kind of economic impact that might have on EXCO as you think about 2013 either gas realizations or greater NGL extraction? Yes not in the Haynesville.
But in the Cotton Valley where we have liquids rich Tyler [ph] $10 million to $20 million in each case should be added to us -ish.
Research Division</strong> -ish? Yes.
It depends on what liquids prices but both of them early on look like somewhere at $15-million $20-million uplift.
But now liquids are coming down so it's probably going to be half of that.
Research Division</strong> It is I guess that you all just weren't able to process previously.
No we were selling it down the line and just getting an upgrade.
We were getting -- instead of $3 gas we were getting $4 because of the liquids.
So now when we separate it out we get 90-something percent of it.
It actually does make an economic difference by doing it that way.
It helps on the new plant right in the middle of the Holly field that wasn't there before so...
Yes.
It works and it -- long term it's going to work great but we turned the liquids market around by signing those [indiscernible] percent to 30% overnight.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a little bit of color on '13.
So without any acquisitions and just a run rate of Q4 in terms of where you are in terms of $80 million $90 million a quarter what kind of base production decline should we be thinking about in the Haynesville and the Marcellus? That's for somebody smarter than me.
We have 3 engineers sitting here and they're all looking at each other.
Marcia what do you think? You're talking about just Haynesville? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well Haynesville or just corporate-wide.
I mean your production started declining in 3Q but you've kind of rigged further in 4Q.
So I'm just wondering at a current run rate how would you see '13 without any acquisitions or any other changes taking place? Well that's a challenge because Cotton Valley is at 6%.
Haynesville is what 25% 30% today.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the drilling with the 5 6 rigs out there it's still 25% 30%? No.
I thought you said just base decline rates...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh yes -- no no...
Our drilling program -- with our drilling program? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just with Q4 run rate annualized so the $80 million $90 million a quarter that you're spending right now.
Just at a corporate level I'm trying to get a sense of what '13 looks like without any acquisitions or anything else.
It's going to be pretty -- it isn't going to [indiscernible].
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Pretty flat? [indiscernible] 12% something that.
I'm not sure it's much more than 10% or 12% just because...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 15? Yes.
It's sporadic because we're drilling units right now.
And so you'll see it comes down and then we put 7 wells on so it goes up.
So it bounces around.
Use 15% and we'll try to beat it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sure sounds good.
And then just the second question on the -- in Marcellus you talked about shutting in wells for 30 days.
Was that just in the Northeast or the Central or both? And also if you can just give some color if -- I understand you're doing it for the water dissipation but does have any impact on the well IPs or EURs or anything else? We've done it in the Northeast and in the Central area and both of them have been very similar both of them in the 90% kind of reduction range in water production.
I think we think it's adding both.
The IP has turned out to be a little bit better and Marcia hasn't given us much more in reserves but she will.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you do see an improvement in the IP relative to wells where you hadn't shut in.
Well we think it's lasting longer.
Yes.
We just say that your water production is much lower so your apparent IP rate's higher faster.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it doesn't cause any swelling in the clays or other issues.
No we're not seeing any of that.
We're trying to stay out of the clays too aren't we? Yes as best [ph] we can.
Really a lot of my questions were answered.
But I wanted to ask again regarding on the acquisition side with all the movement of the commodity itself with oil like you said being flat at $85 and NGLs kind of getting hammered here and gas kind of basing and ticking up is that sort of changing your mentality in the war room daily as far as which asset to attack and look to acquire? No.
We're looking at deals that are for sale.
Areas that we're not interested we pass.
Areas that we have an interest we continue.
I'd just say I'm a little more comfortable with our oil forecast.
And gas is -- we're very comfortable especially if we can get it in our neighborhood.
No we're still looking.
We're -- we had a company that was 90% oil 20 years ago so we're not afraid of the oil and unfortunately some of the stuff that we're looking at we used to operate.
All right.
So is it safe to say -- are you being sort of opportunistic here and -- when looking at identifying opportunities? Well we're trying to get some in the Marcellus but opportunistic when they're at auction is kind of an overstatement.
When there's 40 deals for sale and the -- and they're broadly marketing them we're going to have to be the high bid.
But we've been there before.
We bought $10-billion worth of assets over the last 10 years most of them at some sort of competitive auction.
And are you looking at a company that sells -- I mean companies that might be a little bit levered that shut-in a lot of production or have underdeveloped acreage that you can maybe just acquire and take a bigger bite? Well we would.
I'd say we're looking at a couple of companies.
Right now I'd say 5 or 6 of the deals we're looking at are private companies that just want to sell by year end for tax reasons.
I'd say public companies that we've talked -- that would be a bigger challenge.
Public company deals takes a long time.
I would say we would focus -- we have looked at a couple.
Investment bankers show them to us every day.
They're probably not out loud for sale.
But there are companies with assets in our neighborhood that we will for sure talk to that have either quit drilling in the Haynesville or cut it way back.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple quick ones on my end.
I guess first just wanted to kind of come back on the cost side of things on the capital costs.
In the Marcellus how would you characterize that relative to the Haynesville as it relates to cost-reduction initiatives? And how much additional cost do you think you could carve out of those wells? Well I'm going to say -- this is my opinion and then you guys do it.
I would say we're 1 year to 2 years ahead in the Haynesville from where we are in the Marcellus from learning.
Now keep in mind that Haynesville is 6 million acres and we focused on 600 000 acres.
The Marcellus is almost 30 million acres not counting the Utica.
And we have a couple of focus areas.
We're trying to figure out what the core areas are.
So we haven't been able to sit down and really focus on cost because we're trying to figure out where we are.
Now you guys anything added to that? A lot of our Marcellus were appraisal acreage so those are one-offs.
And those are much more difficult to get down to a cost and then...
Yes we're not drilling pads -- we're not drilling units over there yet although we have done a couple to see what it's done and it has helped but it's such a big area and we have so much diverse acreage.
We're trying to figure out -- and there is acreage available up there.
If we can figure out a core area or 2 -- and I think there's going to be multiple core areas.
There is acreage available and deals available up there.
I'm a little reluctant to pull the trigger on a big deal up there right now because I would say we're -- our learning curve is not as great as it has been in the Haynesville.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It makes sense.
We're getting there.
We're getting there.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like it.
And I guess in the same region just while we're up there the Utica you haven't mentioned that as an area of interest necessarily.
Is that a function of the fact that you probably wouldn't be able to pick up much production with those sorts of assets and so...
Yes right now Aubrey has it as the best area on the planet because he's trying to sell some.
So if you want pay -- we're not in the market to pay $10 000 or $15 000 an acre over there yet.
We've done a study on it.
We think there's -- it's kind of like the Eagle Ford.
There's an oil window a liquids window and a gas window.
And so everybody's kind of focused on the liquids window and they're probably going to be a little bit disappointed on the price and availability of getting that to market.
So we're watching.
There's plenty of acreage for sale and plenty of deals over there.
We have not focused there [ph] yet again because we're not buying all acreage.
We're just set in our game.
Research Division</strong> All right okay.
And then on '13 just quickly closing to outlook I guess do you expect you can remain kind of balanced on the cash flow versus CapEx front in '13? Well we will for sure.
If we're not we'll cut rigs.
I mean one of the things you can bet on is where our capital program is going to be within cash flow.
Shoot I don't know if I have any closing remarks.
I think we answered everything.
Anybody has any further questions feel free to call us.
Everybody here is available.
We are looking at deals.
We will continue to look at deals.
And Joe Allman you need to call me and we'll kind of go over the deal with you.
But I appreciate everybody being on.
Again all those guys at New York we're kind of praying for everybody to get back on their feet.
It looks like a disaster and anybody needs any help from us let us know.
We'll be happy to do it.
With that thanks for everybody and meeting adjourned.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning my name is Brad and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Chairman Doug Miller you may begin your conference.
Thank you very much.
Welcome everybody to our call.
We have approximately 12 in here today so we're prepared for any and all questions.
Before I get started Doug why don't you read what you are supposed to read? I'd like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operational plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to pages 22 and 23 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as the cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Thanks.
That seems to be getting longer.
Well welcome everybody and this call will go over last year and the fourth quarter but I think as part of it we're going to start giving you a couple of hints on going forward.
It was a tough year.
Weathering the storm is getting tiresome.
But I would say that our group did a spectacular job in an environment that really wasn't a lot of fun.
Gas prices got down below $2 last year.
We had to shrink.
We're a gas company.
We're over 95% gas have been.
We'll discuss if we probably will be going forward.
But everybody around here work together.
We were able to cut our capital program as the year went by.
We had to cut a lot of people which is the worst part of this whole thing.
We worked within cash flow.
We actually paid down a little debt.
We spent a lot of time working on a couple of transactions one of which is closed pipeline is underway.
So anyhow we have plenty of dry powder and we'll talk about our plan here in a little while.
Just a few bullets.
We cut capital 48%.
It's a challenge going from 30-something rigs to 5 rigs but Mike and Harold and their group did it and we've been doing a pretty good job on that.
But at the same time they were actually able to cut our costs per well significantly.
We'll get into that in a minute.
And despite of that we actually had some pretty good production results considering we were crash diving with moving rigs out.
They did a great job we averaged 519 I think for the year; 477 for the quarter.
I think we forecast maybe lower than that.
I think it came in slightly better.
Haynesville cost down to 8 and I think Harold actually would like to bet you he can get it under that.
Marcellus we've had some recent decent success.
We're going to be doing a consolidation up there.
I'll let Hal talk about that a little later.
I think that's going to be a significant asset for us going forward and there's going to be a significant focus on that going forward.
Over on Slide 4.
We just recently had a special board meeting.
We've been working on a business strategy here pretty significantly for the last 6 8 months.
We had a special board meeting 2 weeks ago.
The board approved it.
It is a very significant plan.
It is a plan that excels and helps shareholders everybody if gas stays cheap.
So it's a model but it will include significant acquisitions.
We've had 40 or 50 people around here over the last of months evaluating all areas of North America even.
We actually looked at some Canadian shales.
We're going to target 4 or 5 of them.
And yes we're working on several deals as we speak.
We probably had 15 20 partners come to us including foreigners from Japan and China et cetera.
You just wouldn't believe some of the things that are going on on people wanting to buy gas.
Now obviously they're not getting a lot of transactions done but we're looking at a lot of things including companies including assets including areas.
We're looking for production as part of the deal.
If it has some oil with it we have modeled and worked -- working on moving some rigs to work over there.
So it isn't 100% gas we're looking at there are some oil plays that we're interested in eagle Ford in West Texas specifically.
I think our guys have gotten our arms around the areas.
Expect us to start drilling out near our Sugg Ranch.
We have done some studies pouring in seismic out there on an area that have some Wolfcamp potential and some Cline potential.
So I would expect that we would have a rig running there by the end of the first quarter and hopefully we'll have some decent results.
There's been some really good results out in the neighborhood with some other operators.
So we think we're in a pretty good spot.
Again we're going to keep managing our capital spending.
The board approved only $273 million.
We would not go up on that unless we have additional cash flow but we do have the ability to go down if prices come down some and we have done that in the past and we will continue to do that.
We finally closed our JV with Harbinger.
I know we talked about it.
It took us quite a bit of extra time.
There was a lot of approvals that we had to get but it is done.
Probably it took us 3 months longer than we expected.
Done closed and first acquisition signed up.
We're actually in that partnership.
We're going to buy BG's interest in the Cotton Valley which I guess is 20 million or 30 million a day $132 million deal.
We kind of expect that everything is signed sealed and delivered sometime early March is that right? Yes.
With that we'll keep maintaining a significant hedge program.
I think the partnership is hedged at roughly 80% for the first year on its gas.
So we're locking in some stuff there.
The idea here is to buy conventional assets.
As we look at companies and significant assets and some of the shale plays a lot of times there are conventional assets that come along it's a perfect area for them.
So we're going to try to grow that all the interests are aligned.
We have 25% of the LP units and 50% of the GP.
We have a team down there that's looking for deals.
But I would say that about 10% or 20% of the deals we're looking at today John help me have conventional assets that fits the partnership.
Yes or at least 25% of each one them.
Yes yes.
So with that I'm sure that we're going to get a lot of questions with that.
Let's go over the company.
I'll turn it over to Steve right now.
Let's go to Slide 6 and we'll talk about the year quickly.
First it was a year of gas price was the big story where our gas price year-over-year was down 30%.
In any business when you have that kind of a decline in your book essentially it's your only product that's a -- that makes it -- makes for a difficult year.
On the other hand we did our guidance.
Year-over-year was up slightly and we had guided in the fourth quarter to 465 million a day we got to 477.
For the year for next year obviously we're going to have some -- we'll have a decline in production because of the partnership but also just natural declines in the Haynesville and in the Marcellus.
And we'll talk about that in a second when we get to guidance.
So revenues were -- after cash settlements from hedges were down 16% year-over-year.
So the hedge program obviously helped.
Our operating costs were down 11% on a unit basis and our G&amp;A was down 24%.
So we made a lot of progress and it's -- we -- I think that we're very proud of our group to accomplish what we've accomplished.
In our guidance on adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter we were right -- nearly right on.
I think we're 1.6% less than what we have guided toward.
And net income adjusted net income was $0.17 for the quarter which also beat what the Street was estimating.
So all in all a good year a good quarter given the price that we're having the work with and the problems that result from that price.
Let's go to Slide 7.
It's just a brief summary of the partnership transaction.
This is -- it was $725 million property.
A group of properties the cashed to us was $573 million in the closing.
As Doug said we own 1/4 of the partnership and 1/2 of the general partner.
We expect to make -- continue to make a lot of acquisitions of conventional assets in this entity and that's the whole reason that we set it up.
If you look down -- there's a little table down at the bottom here that just shows the pro forma impact.
The way we account for this is on a proportionate consolidation basis.
So if you look at this it's just kind of pro forma of 2012 our historical numbers less the partnership that's the 8H on the partnership and then add back our 25.5% share and that's the way that the numbers will work.
Now after the end of the year of course is when we closed this we closed it actually on February 14 effective February 14.
And at the same time signed a purchase and sale agreement with BG Group to acquire their share of our Cotton Valley share of Cotton Valley assets in East Texas North Louisiana EMI.
So that will be taking place hopefully by the 5th of March and the BG properties I think actually will -- I think they add about 23 million a day taking into account just the fourth quarter production.
I think overall projection for the year is somewhere around 20 or about that.
So it was a -- the BG transaction was a good transaction for the partnership.
It just increased our interest in the very same wells that we already own in the partnership so it was an accretive deal.
On Page 8 when we talk about our liquidity as you can see we've got at the year end we were at $1.1 billion on our bank debt.
That's down to $534 million as of February 19 for a total debt companywide of $1.3 billion versus $1.9 billion where we were at the end of the year.
We have about $445 million of borrowing capacity plus cash and less the letters of credit.
I've got the partnership column over there as well.
This is the closing balance sheet of the partnership.
We will be increasing the bank borrowing base to account for the acquisition a portion of the acquisition of the BG properties and so we would expect that to increase up to around $470 million after -- when we close that particular one.
We do not guarantee as EXCO the debt of the partnership nor do they guarantee or any way have any pledge toward our debt.
So it's a standalone deal.
Hedging on page 9.
We have about 44% of our 2013 estimated production swapped not counting anything in the partnership.
The partnership right now as Doug said is up around 80% of gas and more than 80% of oil for '13 and we're adding some hedges.
We have added some in the last couple of days and intend to add more.
We are well within where we need to be from a banking standpoint on the gas and oil and then we need a little more hedging on 2014 that will come.
All right on guidance Page 10.
The fourth quarter nothing particularly exciting except we did beat production which is always exciting.
We had a bit of a blowout on differential in the Permian that has now kind of cured itself.
I think that differential yesterday was around -- well yesterday it was really low but the average for the year so far has been about $1.80.
So that is getting back in line.
We were at the low end of guidance on operating cost a little bit high on G&amp;A cash G&amp;A because we -- there were some severance costs included in that.
As I said on EBITDA we're just about straight on just 2% less than what we have guided to so good quarter.
Our 2013 guidance the third -- this includes the partnership effective from February 15 on at a 25% and then for the first 1.5 months it will be -- it's in there at 100% of course on those properties.
So the first quarter is anomalous.
The second quarter you start picking up just EXCO without -- and 25% of the partnership versus the full impact of those properties.
It looks like not considering anything having to do with the partnership it will probably have around a 12% or maybe 14% decline overall in production.
We could very well do better than that because a lot of the performance of our wells our shale wells is certainly surprising to the extent on the upside but that's kind of what we are guiding towards.
On the differentials as I said that we fell like that that problem has been pretty much rectified and so we've guiding to $5 to $7 a barrel on oil.
And so operating expenses we're kind of again holding the line.
If prices don't improve we may be further reducing operating expenses.
Gathering is kind of is what it is.
It's a little higher in the Haynesville than it is on those conventional assets that move out of here.
But we -- I think we'll be well within those ranges for guidance.
So if you look down at the adjusted EBITDA line we're pretty -- once we get past the first quarter and get the noise out we're pretty flat at around $70 million of EBITDA per quarter.
Our capital budget's at midpoint of $273 million.
So we're going to be within cash flow and if -- again if prices don't improve or deteriorate then we'll be looking at that capital program further.
The last slide that I have is Page 12.
It's just a very rough picture of the partnership for the year '13.
We purposely guided a little bit on the low side of this particular side because we got noise we've got to clean out -- I mean clean up the purchase price adjustments and all that stuff and then we also had the BG acquisition to be considered.
It's not in these numbers.
Actually our budget for this partnership to be honest is a little bit higher than our high point of guidance.
But we will be adjusting that as we go throughout the year.
But -- so that kind of gives you just a good feel for where we are on the partnership for '13.
And with that I'm going to turn it over to Hal Hickey and he'll deal with the operations.
Thanks Steve.
I'll begin on Slide 14.
And if you look at the map you can see our 3 core areas that we had at year-end Appalachia East Texas North Louisiana and Permian.
Overall EXCO when you look at our proved reserves on a 12/31 NYMEX pricing case we had 1.6 Tcfe or about 93% gas.
Our net acreage at year-end is about 478 000 and we had 919 employees.
I'll say that was down from nearly 1 100 a year ago.
We're actually down to about 900 today.
Let me explain the way we broke out this map so you can see.
In blue these are assets that are going into the partnership.
So virtually all of our year end Permian assets except for the 15 000-or-so acres that Doug referenced earlier where we picked up some leasehold and we're going to start drilling on the additional acreage probably around the end of the quarter no later than during the second quarter.
So the Permian is standalone.
It's virtually all going into the partnership except for the 15 000 acres.
Then you see East Texas North Louisiana conventional in blue.
That's a subset of our East Texas North Louisiana shown in green.
So we're going to have within the partnership about 1/2 the Tcfe of reserves about 95 million to 100 million a day of production and net acreage of some 130 000 acres.
In Appalachia still our biggest portfolio we have net acreage of about 312 000 production is about 50 million a day and that's made up of 36 million to 38 million a day of Marcellus 12 million to 14 million a day of conventional.
In East Texas North Louisiana which is our largest production base of the 400-plus million a day some 330 million to 340 million a day is Marcellus and the balance would be in our conventional assets it's about 70 million a day.
So going over to some of the verbiage here Haynesville/Bossier we're going to continue manufacturing only in DeSoto Parish in the Haynesville.
We're down dramatically in rig count from when we peaked at about 22 rigs in 2011 we're down to 3 today.
And like I said they're all in DeSoto Parish.
Our other key areas in the Haynesville/Bossier is in Shelby down in East Texas.
We've got the majority of our leases held but we deferred drilling until 2014 until prices recover.
I'm going to give you some detail on where we are on well costs and some of our additional plans when we get into further detail on Haynesville/Bossier.
The Marcellus focuses on appraisal this year.
We're gathering data and we're continuing to hold acreage.
We've got some 60% to 70% of our Marcellus acreage as HBP.
We've got our development drilling on hold here and I'm going to give you some more detail on what we're doing with the organization that supports the Marcellus how we're moving the bulk of that team down from Warrendale to here.
Permian the deep rights.
This is outside of the partnership.
We continue to test in the Wolfcamp and Cline.
We did increase our acreage position and that's referenced in the guidance where you saw we've spent some $30 million or so in acquiring this acreage 38 -- $30 million plus.
And we're in the steps of finalizing a joint venture to exploit this deep acreage holdings.
TGGT is a 50-50 equity company held between us and BG to gather and transport and treat gas.
It's a midstream company.
Throughputs held steady at about 1.4 Bcf a day.
We've had some great results there this year as we've cut capital cut OpEx and increase our volume throughput.
So we actually made -- and I'll go over that detail further about $158 million of EBITDA in TGGT.
In the partnership assets which we have 25.5% of we're going to continue drilling with 1 rig in our Sugg Ranch Canyon Sand area.
Probably spud some 36 to 38 wells there this year.
And in Cotton Valley partnership assets the focus will be on managing our base decline and of course our costs.
And the decline will be managed as we do additional workovers and recompletion.
Slide 15 goes into our SEC reserve case.
First thing I'll point out is that our pricing for SEC proved reserves for full year '12 had a reference price of $2.76 as shown in the footnote.
That's down from $4.12 since a year ago.
So we have gone from 1.3 Tcf as you can see in the water fall on the bottom of the page to slightly over 1 Tcf of proved reserves on an SEC basis.
We did have some good performance.
We have extensions and discoveries in excess of 100 Bcf.
Our wells continued to perform better than we had thought a year ago so we increased the reserves through the performance of the wells about 40 Bcf.
And then because of our cost-cutting efforts on both LOE and capital and some revisions in working interest we were able to add some 200 or 197 specifically reserves through the revisions as the result of cost-cutting.
We did produce about 190 Bcf and we sold just a small amount.
But price had the biggest impact on our reserves this year as revisions due to price totaled some 467 Bcfe.
I will say that when you look at F&amp;D  not necessarily on an annualized basis but in a period of time so when you look at 4-year period our F&amp;D was about $1.51.
The way our reserves are run now the bulk of our reserves are proved developed some 96% of our total proved reserves.
And our proved developed F&amp;D was about $1.60 this year.
And the PV-10 of our proved reserves using strip pricing is $1.8 billion on a pretax PV-10 versus $0.7 million when you use SEC pricing.
Going over to Slide 16.
This gives some color or detail on the $273 million budget for 2013 that Doug and Steve referenced.
I will say that's down from $1 billion of spending in '11 and about $500 million of spending in '12.
So we continue to manage our capital budget.
Some 75% of the budget will be focused on drilling and completion some $207 million -- $206 million of the $273 million and about 66% of our budget will continue to be focused in the Haynesville Shale area.
Our corporate spending entails capitalized interest capitalized salaries and some IT and other corporate capital as well.
Appalachia will get $53 million of our spend.
And then on Slide 17 you can see what the partnership capital budget entails.
Some $37 million and this is 100% to the partnership.
So EXCO would have about 25.5% of that total amount there.
Where we're continuing to drill in the partnership is in our high rate of return liquids-rich Permian project.
We're seeing 40% to 60% rates of returns from those wells.
We expect to turn some 37 wells to sell there.
And you can see that the bulk of the spending of the partnership goes to that drilling program in the Permian.
Vernon in East Texas and North Louisiana like I said are built around recompletions and some artificial wells and operations improvement.
Going over to Slide 18.
I'll give you some additional detail on what's going on in our East Texas/North Louisiana core Haynesville Shale Haynesville/Bossier shale area.
Holly we've got about 99% of our acreage held by production.
Holly of course is predominantly in northern DeSoto Parish and that will be the area where we continue to manufacture.
We've got some 34 or 35 units fully manufactured at this point.
We're about halfway through that program.
Down in Shelby our acreage where we'll start drilling again if prices continue to improve we'll start drilling again in 2014.
We've got about 93% of that acreage as HBP.
Operated shale production about 1.1 Bcf a day and our net production at year-end we had an exit rate of 353 million a day from 378 operated and 178 OBO horizontal shale wells.
We had for full year 2012 about 70-or-so wells that we brought online very consistent performance through our restricted choke program.
We brought them on at about 12 million to 13 million a day at an average PSI of about -- taking pressure of about 7 800 pounds.
We've made continuous improvements in our drilling and completion operations.
We brought the cost down from $9.5 million in Q4 '11 to about $8 million currently.
And we've actually think some of our wells come in at sub $8 million on our total cost.
I will say that in our budget we're getting 33% to 34% rates of return in this Holly core area as we drill our wells.
And at $4 gas we expect 40% rates of return.
OpEx we've reduced some 32% year-over-year for fourth quarter of '11 compared to fourth quarter of '12.
We've brought our production downtime to approximately 4% of late I think 2.5% to 3%.
But we've had a key effort in doing that is bringing an operations control room into Dallas where we implement well surveillance and we actually can control the wells from here.
This creates a lot of efficiency in our field operations and with these virtual operations from Dallas we can actually send our operators out to problem wells.
They don't have to go look at wells that are chugging along just fine.
So it's been very very fruitful for us to have this operations control room in place.
You can see on the bottom the right-hand quadrant of this chart -- of this slide how in green you can see the EXCO wells that we've drilled.
We've actually brought our wells time from spud to rig to TD down to about 30 days and our spud to rig release which isn't depicted on this chart is down to about 36 days.
So we've had some outstanding performance and I firmly believe we continue to be a premier operator in this area.
In Appalachia we've got about 312 -- as shown on Slide 19 we've got some 312 000 net acres about 128 000 net acres are -- have Marcellus Shale potential.
Roughly 2/3 to 3/4 of our Marcellus Shale acreage is HBPd.
The total net production is about 58 million a day and in Appalachian area with some 43-plus million a day.
Coming from the Marcellus we've had a great increased year-over-year from end of '11 to end of '12 as the Marcellus has increased dramatically as we turned 38 wells to sales during '12.
We've seen some really good results of late.
We've had some 7-plus million a day IPs on average.
We are slowing down up there because of natural gas pricing.
And in turn most of our efforts this year will be on appraisal and holding acreage.
We'll focus on the delineation of select acreage block so that in 2014 we'll reinitiate a development program.
Well we have seen some significant cuts in drilling cost.
Our drilling cost are down 46%.
You can see that over here in the chart in the bottom right-hand corner of the bar chart.
You can see that our drilling cost have actually dropped from an average of $4.6 million a day down to most recently it's about $2.5 million a day.
Now with completions our average well costs run at about $6 million a day for a development type well.
Now appraisal well where we have more science of course the costs are going to be higher.
But our drilling costs are down 46% our completion costs are down 11%.
We are integrating the asset team into Dallas.
And at year-end we had some 120 to 130 people inclusive of both EXCO and BG employees in place in Warrendale.
We're going to keep about 40 to 45 in Warrendale.
We'll move some 25 to 30 here and the balance will leave the company.
And this is being done in response to natural gas prices to reduce our cost but probably and most importantly to enhance our collaborative efforts across the company and we're doing this with the full support and cooperation of our 50-50 partner BG in the Appalachia JV.
Slide 20 goes into some detail on our partnership operating areas.
You can see West Texas Permian it's dominated by Sugg Ranch where we're doing our drilling.
Long-life reserves very concentrated area.
This does not show where we've acquired some acreage outside of the partnership which is just to the south of Sugg Ranch.
In East Texas/North Louisiana you see our 4 major areas: Waskom Holly Cotton Valley Danville but Vernon dominates the volumes in the -- it's got 65% or more of our partnerships East Texas/North Louisiana production.
Again upside potential exists at higher gas prices but it's got to be $5 to $6-plus before we really start drilling here again on most of these assets but we are going to continue with what I call the low hanging fruit.
There's some behind pipe recompletions where we get some excellent rates of return.
And we've also implemented recently some agreements with third parties to process gas and realize more revenues from our natural gas liquids content of this gas.
The last slide I'll address is on Page 21.
TGGT is the 50-50 equity company that we hold with BG Group.
We are in the throes of marketing this property or these assets.
We've had several parties in and we'll talk about the timing on that I'm sure in the Q&amp;A session.
But it's progressing very well.
We've got management presentations ongoing and we will move forward with this asset sale.
But it's had great performance frankly Q4 throughput were 1.4 Bcf a day.
The last couple of days it's actually been about 1.43 Bcf a day as we brought on some additional wells and some third-party volumes.
EBITDA for full-year '12 was $158 million outstanding performance.
I will say as volumes decrease as we reduce our drilling program we're forecasting an equity -- I mean an EBITDA for 2013 of about $126 million $125 million.
Our debt position we paid down of late we have $600 million facility in place.
We've got about $512 million to $515 million of net debt and now it's down to about $484 million.
Our capital budget has been reduced dramatically.
We spent about $126 million for full-year '12 that compared to some $300 million in full-year '11.
But we're forecasting that to go down to about $40 million for '13 as our major facility infrastructure has been built.
Most of what you'll be seeing us spend is capital loan.
It's combination of continued well hookups for equity volumes from BG EXCO and some costs that we'll incur as we go out and acquire third-party volumes.
That's probably a 50-50 split at this point.
With that I will turn the floor back over to Mr.
Miller for Q&amp;A session.
Okay.
One of the things I think everybody -- I'm positive most people realize is -- especially companies like us gas company who 4 years ago had thousands of proved undeveloped locations.
Two things happened with SEC.
As prices come down and they don't hit a certain hurdle rate you got to write them off.
That doesn't they're gone.
They're just now in probable.
The second thing that happens is if -- the new rule is if you don't have it on your schedule in the next 5 years you have to take it off.
That doesn't mean it's gone that means it's in probable or possible.
So we started it early so we haven't had any explosive.
But keep in mind this is -- what you have today is 96% PDP.
I mean we only have 4% left and I think we're drilling those so we shouldn't have a lot of write-offs going forward.
But the bottom line is and we've done a study on this if prices we say when but if prices go up we have potential for 5 to 6 Tcf in our asset base where it is now if prices go up.
And they kind of turn on -- we run a model at $4 $5 $6 $7 each area brings on a lot of these things and we're looking at wells that we would drill that have a 20% rate of return.
So this asset base is still spectacular.
It looks like it's going away but it isn't going away.
We're just writing it down.
So with that I'm going to shut up and see if anybody wants to ask any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of your comments on acquisitions.
I guess as we go through the year or as we get to the end of the year should we expect that EXCO will look materially different in terms of its exposure either regionally or production mix wise from where you are now or should we see more smaller deals potentially by your JV partner or partners that don't necessarily move the needle as much? Well I'm hoping we have a significant change.
The board approved a fairly aggressive acquisition effort.
We're looking a lot of deals.
I would say we're working with a lot of guys right now.
We kicked it off and we had an all employee meeting here a couple of weeks ago as you can imagine as we are cutting people and we're going slow we probably had a slight morale problem around here.
But with the board's decision to do an aggressive acquisition effort we had an all-employee meeting and we told everybody to get some new tennis shoes because we're going to be speedily running forward.
I would hope it's significant change Brian.
But I would say this the 2 main areas of focus are going to be the Haynesville and the Marcellus.
Now we are -- and we're working probably 7 investment bankers as we speak have deals in here that we're negotiating on.
There are a couple of deals that has some oil.
I told everybody that we could turn around oil if we start buying.
Just thinking about it we've turned it around in the last 2 days.
So we're bragging oil down.
But I would say if we're going to drill wells they're going to probably be in the oily areas.
A lot of acquisitions we are looking at in the Haynesville and the Marcellus have production with them.
Those we would not anticipate doing much drilling.
But I would say all in all expect some changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just so I could clarify that because you did just referred to the focusing on Haynesville and the Marcellus which are the 2 main areas where you are pretty focused on now.
So I guess should we expect originally that you would stay there or that -- I'm trying to...
Yes we're going to stay there.
I mean we're working on 4 or 5 areas right now.
The easiest ones for us to evaluate are the Haynesville and the Marcellus because we have the most experience there and we have operations and there are several -- there just aren't many deals in the Haynesville for sale.
Most of -- I would say the 2 core areas and really the only one we would really buy is around Holly.
Now we're doing some studies and Harold has -- I've heard him say "I'd like to get back into that area where some other operators drilled some wells that we're not sure are done right." But I'd say in the Holly area between Chesapeake and in Cana and El Paso and Shell it's pretty much taken up.
Now there are some small deals that we're working on.
Don't expect a lot of action in the Haynesville.
But up in the Marcellus there seems to be quite a few deals for sale.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at the production profile here I mean yes your gas production is in decline which probably shouldn't be a surprise given the activity levels.
But at the conventional wisdom would be that the Haynesville should be declining pretty rapidly.
And can you just talk about what you've done to mitigate that? Is that just lower than expected decline rates or is it bringing backlog on how should we think about that? I'd say Mark can you speak to that? or Hal? There's couple of things.
One we brought in a significant inventory of wells from '11 into '12 that completed and we also are bringing a significant inventory of wells from '12 into '13.
Our restrictive choke program has mitigated the decline significantly.
You might recall that we're bringing on wells that at 25 million to 30 million a day early in the program.
Now we significantly cut that choke put the choke program in place.
Bringing wells from '12 to '13 that definitely mitigates the decline.
I'm not saying you don't have significant declines you do.
But it has been mitigated accordingly.
Right.
Plus now we have years of wells that are on for 3 years in our base.
They are the lower decline rates.
So the incremental coming on is not as effective as on the decline side.
So that's up there.
Yes.
The thing is -- keep in mind at these production numbers we have a production meeting every Monday and we have had some pipeline issues not necessarily ours where I've seen weekends where we have 300 million or 400 million a day shut in.
This is in spite of several weeks where we had 100  or 200 million a day shut in.
So this -- I think this is kind of spectacular results.
And as we go forward with less and less wells being drilled we're down to about 2% 3% shut in.
It looks like average over the last week or 2 month or 2.
So if you look at historically we were more 7% or 8% downtime.
And then now we've been running more in the 2% to 4%.
Right.
So that's helping too Brian.
I think -- there's one of the guys that we share a lot of data with there's been some new techniques and we're sharing it in Cana.
I mentioned a couple of days ago they're talking about some 18 Bcf wells.
We'd love to have that because we're prying in the 6 Bcf to 8 Bcf.
But what they're doing is they absolutely change a lot of things and there wasn't the best operators out there but they're doing a lot longer laterals different frac jobs and in different areas.
But they're testing and testing and we share data with them and we're rooting for them.
Your next question comes in line of David Neuhauser of Livermore Partners.
I know where I mean in these quarterly conference calls of course with gas prices still depressed but -- and I know it's a bit frustrating but kind of what's the longer-term plan here as how you're sort of recalibrating EXCO to look into next year or 2? Well I think you're going to start getting a hint on it.
I mean we're going to be focusing on some acquisition.
Keep in mind when gas prices are cheap the value of the asset's cheap and we're going to be attempting to make some acquisitions in areas we'd like to expand.
We're tired going backwards.
The one thing about oil and gas companies there's only 2 ways.
You're either going forward or you're going backwards.
There's no such thing as standing still.
So we've gone backwards here in the last 1.5 years.
We've weathered the storm and the other thing that I've told you guys time and time again is gas prices can go lower in your forecast and they can stay longer in your forecast.
So we have a plan in place right now if gas prices stay between $2 and $3.
We have a plan for the next 2 to 3 years the board has approved it and employees are on board and now it's time to execute.
And how is your -- at this point how is your feeling on -- like your liquidity position? I know we've been waiting of course on some further asset disposition so how are you feeling about that? We have $500 million today.
We probably have 8 partners waiting that have $1 billion plus each willing to spend -- actually driving us crazy to do joint ventures with them.
So liquidity isn't going to be the issue.
And then we have TGGT I know it's later.
I predicted last July 4 I screwed that up.
It's taking longer.
We have Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley working on it as we speak.
We've had 4 people through a data room.
We have another 16 request to come through a data room.
Blair is going crazy.
About half of them are strategic about half of them are infrastructure funds.
And I would say we would have an answer on that by mid-April.
And I think in theory between that and the joint venture we'll come close to 0 outstanding under our revolver so we have plenty of dry powder.
But again we have 5 or 6 major institutions that are friendly with us that would like to do some strategic joint ventures.
Maybe we put up 10% and they put -- there's a million of ways of skinning the cat.
But our job right now is to find good deals.
If we can find good deals there are plenty of good partners out there.
And discipline has to be underlined.
One way to make a good deal a bad deal is to pay too much for it.
I understand that.
But I know a lot of these joint ventures like you said you're not going to have a whole lot of equity to put in.
I guess my point is even if you find some good deals here are these joint ventures going to end up creating tremendous value for the shareholders over time? Yes sure.
I mean we're not going to do it for free.
If we put up 10% and they put up 90% and we operate it and grow it we're going to end up with a lot more than 10%.
I kind of expect on a deal like that we might end up with 25% in -- by the PDPs and over time.
So I mean there's structures that work for both.
I mean we agree that it has to work for shareholders.
We have a plan.
Okay that sounds good.
And my last question is again I know you're saying a lot of joint ventures strategic partnerships but that makes things look a little messy from an investor's point of view when a company has all those partners.
I mean at some point again if things stay where we're at today and it's 1 year from now 2 years from now you're even adding some joint ventures and assets to the mix.
I mean the company essentially looking at that point to go private with their -- would go private and look to recalibrate in that way or is the company  just going sort of look to maintain and grow shareholder value in a way you're describing? You're the one who brought it up.
I'd love to be private.
I'm not working on any deal right now but it would be a lot easier in this industry to be private right now.
And I'm not the only one that's thinking that way.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Henick of Scurlydog.
TGGT could you take me through what kind of return you think you're going to get if that thing gets sold because the number -- if you basically think your -- will have no more draw down on the revolver that seems like a big number.
So if you could flush that out a little bit.
No draw down under their revolver is that what you're asking? No no no.
You said if you do the -- if you get that -- the pipeline sale off the whole thing of the deal sold.
Yes yes yes.
Well if -- our equity interest if we sell that...
Inc.</strong> Yes that's my question.
Yes we'll just pay down our oil and gas revolver.
It's not pledged at all.
So if we got $300 million or $400 million or whatever we got for it it would just reduce our revolver and give us dry powder for our acquisition effort.
But what's your draw down on your revolver currently? Isn't it more than that? $550 million-ish out of the $900 million revolver.
Right.
So you don't think you're getting $550 million that's what I thought you were saying which seemed like a lot of money.
Say what? You didn't think you're going to get $550 million-ish for the sale.
No no no.
We have another joint venture working where I expect to get $50 million in here over the next 2 quarters.
You just never know.
We have a couple of things that me and Ramsey are working on.
That could help a lot here shortly.
Well that's good.
I look forward to that.
And the other question is it gets a little confusing with me obviously with all the write-downs on the gas and the stuff in the ground the valuation of it which I understand it's mostly due to price.
But if you looked at your overall reserves then you can break it down totally or just gas.
In terms of reserves in the ground what do you think you have versus a year ago on basically constant dollar like the price of gas never changed? Is it up or down and by how? Well I would say it's probably slightly down.
I'd say look at our production versus our discoveries.
Just take the Tcf and add back the 467 and that's kind of where we'll be.
We did about 15.
And practically it's 15 the water fall and there it is.
Yes.
And we've quoted around -- our NYMEX strip we're at 1.6 Tcf I mean -- that all those cards and the tails of the wells that are on production come back at the NYMEX.
Yes.
I mean what we do around here what we do around here and Marcia goes crazy with her group we actually do 3 engineering reports every quarter.
We do a SEC reserve report we do a bank reserve report which is a forward curve at a discount to the actual curve and then we do an actual curve.
So we literally do 3 different engineering reports every single quarter.
And the difference between the SEC and the NYMEX which is where properties are trading right now is significant maybe as much as 50%.
Our reserves to answer your question would be up year-over-year were it not for price.
So you would be up? And what -- up like 10% 20% 50% 2%? About 10% I think.
About -- close to 10%? Almost -- yes just over 10%.
At slide 15.
Slide 15 tells the story.
I'm looking at Slide 15 I don't quite follow that.
But that's okay.
That's very helpful.
It looks like they're down slightly.
We'll give you a crash course.
No but I'll take your word for it.
So you think they're up slightly that's fine.
They're not down dramatically is what I was concerned about.
No no no.
No no.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Wow.
There must be too many conference calls going on today.
Well with that I appreciate everybody being on.
It's been a tough year but I think the management has put together a plan and the board has 100% bought off on it and I expect that everybody to see a lot of changes over the next 12 months and hopefully we can get them kicked off here in the next few months.
Again thanks for being here.
Meeting adjourned.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jay and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources Inc.
First Quarter Earnings Release.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded today May 1 2013.
I'd now like to hand the call over to Mr.
Doug Miller Chairman and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jay.
Before we get started I'm going to have Ramsey read our disclaimers.
They keep getting longer Ramsey.
Will you shorten them down a little? I'll try.
Thanks Doug.
I would like to remind everyone that you can go to www.excoresources.com and click on the Presentations link in the Investor Relations section at the bottom of our homepage to access today's presentation slides.
The statements that may be made on this conference call regarding future financial and operating plans projections structure results business strategies market prices and derivative activities or other plans forecasts and statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are based on a variety of assumptions that may change depending on future events which are difficult to predict.
Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.
We caution you not to place undue if any reliance on such statements.
Please refer to Pages 17 and 18 of the slide presentation for the complete text regarding our forward-looking statements as well as the cautionary information set forth in our most recent Form 10-K Form 10-Q and other SEC filings which are available on our website at www.excoresources.com.
In addition the slide presentation contains information including reconciliations regarding certain non-GAAP financial numbers which will be discussed on today's call.
Doug? Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
This is Doug Miller.
And here with me we have 15 people some of which will talk all of which will be available for questions.
We do have our new CFO in here today so he's going to have to take a little heat Mark Mulhern.
He started at April 1 and we have determined that he is good luck on gas prices.
So if we'd come in and rub his head every morning gas goes up.
So that's what we've been doing.
So everybody in the gas business should be proud of that.
With that one of the things that we have noted and has been a problem for companies like us gas is we've been writing down or writing off our proved and developed with gas price and it looks like we're getting near the end of that because second quarter of last year which is included in this full year was averaged $2.15.
So gas is going to have to go down a lot for us to have any more write-downs.
So we're losing at $2.15 for the next quarter and hopefully we'll be gaining a 4-plus.
So again that's the good news.
Current operations let's go to Slide 3 if everybody has their [ph] slides.
We have significantly reduced our development drilling program.
We have 3 rigs running in the Haynesville which we are continuing and we'll continue for the rest of the year.
We have one in the Marcellus.
Our people have done a super job winding that and keeping the costs down.
Actually we've had major improvements over the last 12 months in both areas.
Hedging between us and the Harbinger partnership we have hedged -- I think we're hedged at $4.17 for the rest of this year about 65% of our gas.
So we've pretty much locked in our cash flow for the year.
We do have some upside but it's only with 35% of it.
We continue to evaluate what's happened here recently as the front has gone up.
I think people are blaming that on cold weather but I believe actually it was a very normal winter.
And what we really saw was a significant rig count drop and we're starting to see some actual demand away from weather coming in.
And so I think we finished the year at 1.7 Tcf in storage versus 2.5.
So I think the next 6 weeks will be pretty interesting.
If we don't get storage build up we may have some problems with some of the guys with their short gas.
Transactions we have -- we completed our deal with Harbinger which is a conventional partnership in a quarter down 3 quarters it's hedged.
And it has availability.
We've completed our first acquisition in there.
I think John were working on about 20 deals for that.
So quite a few conventional assets on the market.
Again we're working closely with the Harbinger Group.
And hopefully we'll be doing several transactions this year.
We continue -- let me see here.
Let's go over to Slide 4.
We're going to continue to manage our capital spending within cash flow.
Our guys have done a great job of that.
It's been a challenge here over the last 1.5 years because the cash flow -- the gas prices came down so fast but we're well within it.
Everything is modeled and ready to go and I think everybody is doing a spectacular job there.
I think what we're really going to be focused on here for the near term is maintaining that -- maintaining the capital budget where it is.
And we have a significant acquisition and development -- I mean acquisition and divestiture group working probably at times as many as 40 or 50 people are working.
I'd say we're probably looking at 30 or 40 deals a huge deal flow out there right now.
Actually the main 2 areas of focus will be the Haynesville and the Marcellus but we have started looking at 2 other deals -- 2 other areas which will include the Eagle Ford and West Texas.
We've operated out there before so hopefully we can do some -- we're looking at a lot of them in both areas but it's still challenging.
A lot of people think that you can buy them at big discounts where there's a very fluid market for oil and gas properties.
You will see us probably not by acreage only.
If they don't come with production we're probably not going to have an interest.
Again and then we're looking at another area.
I'm not going to tell you what it is right now but it is another area of interest with deals for sale and we're just trying to learn.
And we've had a lot of meetings.
We'll keep you posted on that.
Again we're going to be managing the balance sheet.
I think I'm going to get 47 questions about TGGT and I will say this that we have -- it's been a challenge because we have a partner on that so we have to make sure we're in lockstep on how we're handling the process.
We are in lockstep with them.
We have Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs working on it.
And we've had a second round of bidding and the bankers are reviewing those and in discussions with that.
So hopefully here over the next 30 to 60 days we'll have a mutual agreement between us and BG on exactly how we're going to do that.
And in the balance sheet we're going to continue to do that.
That's Mark's job.
And so with that I'm going to turn it over to him and he'll tell you how we're going to manage the balance sheet.
Great.
Thank you Doug and good morning.
I'm just going to review the financial highlights for the quarter on the slide deck Slides 6 through 10.
So if you'll turn to Slide 6 the first quarter numbers reflect the closing of the Harbinger partnership which closed in mid-February.
You see our direct operating costs are down 30% per Mcfe for the -- from the first quarter of 2012 and general administrative costs are down approximately 13%.
I think this is a reflection of strong cost management by the company in reaction to the lower natural gas price environment.
Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was approximately $96 million.
It exceeded our guidance and reflects lower levels of capital expenditures.
The income statement for the first quarter of 2013 reflects approximately $187 million of gain on the sale of the conventional assets through the Harbinger partnership.
The GAAP income statement shows a significant improvement in net income from Q1 of last year due to a large ceiling test write-down that occurred in 2012.
So when you exclude the gain on sale from the 2013 net income and exclude the ceiling test write-downs from 2012 you get an apples-to-apples comparison.
Adjusted first quarter earnings per share in 2013 were $0.13 versus $0.03 in 2012.
Turning to Slide 7 it summarizes the progress that Doug referred to with respect to liquidity.
So proceeds from the Harbinger partnership were used to reduce borrowing on our revolver to under $500 million at quarter-end.
And as you can see on this slide EXCO's borrowing base was reduced to $900 million but the partnership established an initial borrowing base of $470 million.
We have a bank meeting this Friday May 3 and continue to have an excellent bank group that's very supportive of the company.
On Slide 8 just touching on the hedging for a minute it summarizes our current hedge position and reflects the swaps put in place in Q1 for both EXCO and the partnership.
As Doug said we're approximately 65% hedged for the remainder of 2013 at $4.17.
The partnership also hedged in accordance with the revolver requirements of its credit agreement.
So this is an area we monitor closely and we'll look for further opportunities to further layer on hedges for 2014 and '15.
The next couple slides are on guidance.
So on Slide 9 I know there's a lot of numbers on this slide but really we tried to highlight the important numbers at the bottom of the page which basically shows the adjusted EBITDA of approximately $96 million exceeded guidance by 16% again mainly due to cost control solid production and pricing for the first quarter.
I also want to highlight that while CapEx was lower in Q1 than the guidance a significant portion of this is due to timing of projects and we are not adjusting our full year capital expenditures.
Slide 10 is our guidance for the rest of 2013 so these numbers reflect EXCO's 25.5% interest in the Harbinger partnership and the addition of our interest in the BG conventional assets that were added to the partnership in March of 2013.
So gas prices and our production estimates for 2013 have been updated.
So we're projecting a full year adjusted EBITDA of $341 million.
Yes that assumes no meaningful acquisitions between now and the end of the year.
And due to the continued strong operating results at TGGT and additional expense reduction we've also increased adjusted EBITDA guidance at TGGT by around $6 million or so.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer to cover the remainder of the slide deck.
Hal? Thanks Mark.
The first quarter of 2013 was a very very strong quarter from an operational standpoint and I really want to thank our teams and compliment them for their outstanding efforts during the quarter.
As you see on Slide 12 which provides an overview of our operations we're continuing our manufacturing program in DeSoto Parish Louisiana where we're still seeing strong strong results.
In Marcellus while we do have a limited appraisal and development program focused in northeast and central PA we have seen some of our most outstanding well results to date.
In the -- regards to the Harbinger partnership we kicked it off after we closed it in February.
We're seeing in part positive results from that partnership.
We're drilling Canyon Sand well out in West Texas with 1 rig.
And we'll probably drill 36 to 38 wells out there this year.
TGGT as Mark noted had an outstanding quarter as driven by strong volumes and significant reductions in OpEx as we consolidated some treating and released some rail equipment.
On this slide you can see a summary of our overall rig count across our operating areas.
I think Doug mentioned that we have 3 rigs in the Haynesville 1 in Appalachia and I guess there's 1 in Permian.
The one in Permian is drilling on behalf of the EXCO/HGI Partnership.
Now outside of the partnership EXCO does own some deep rights including some acreage we acquired in the last quarter of 2012 which is respectively Wolfcamp and Cline.
And we're taking a look and we're doing some drilling out there later this year.
Going over to Slide 13 it highlights some of our Haynesville and Bossier results.
And the strong performance in the Haynesville continues.
We have about 400 operated wells flowing to sales.
We have about 180 OBO horizontal shale wells flowing to sales.
And we've achieved a recent milestone there.
Early this year we actually reached the gross operated production total of 1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
That's a huge achievement.
Only been on for about 4 or 4.5 years so this has been a phenomenal phenomenal piece of work for us.
We continue to see improvement in our well costs.
Dips down some 20% from the fourth quarter of 2011 on our current average well cost.
And our core DeSoto area is about $7.8 million to $8 million.
Savings have resulted from continuing improvement on our drilling days optimizing completion designs improving our efficiencies.
And now for '13 we're focused on the development of the core Holly area in North Louisiana.
We're continuing to manufacture on 80-acre spacing and flow our wells through our restricted shales [ph] program.
We're producing about 1.1 Bcf per day of current gross operated production and we'll stick with the 3 rigs for the rest of '13 if our current plans stay in place.
Slide 14 we detailed some of our operational highlights from Appalachia.
51 in those are gross production from the Marcellus shale is up over 200 million days for the first time for us.
And net production now net volume to EXCO is about 48 million a day.
We continue to see some improved development well costs driven primarily by drilling efficiencies.
And we were spending about $4.5 million on drilling in early 2012 and of late and this is in our infill development wells.
Some of that cost has come down to about $2.5 million and that's for drilling only.
The significant well results we referred to earlier that have occurred in central and northeast Marcellus shale areas we realized the average 24 are IPs of about 9 million a day on wells completed at the end of '12.
In '13 we plan to run one rig.
As I've said we're going to have a limited program here and we're going to focus on some appraisal wells and some development wells that our big efforts are going to be preparing for development in '14 and beyond.
During the first quarter in coordination with our partner BG Group we did begin consolidating our Appalachia asset team into Dallas.
And this consolidation is going to result in future cost savings.
But more importantly it's going to enhance the collaboration and leverage of our technical capabilities across our whole portfolio.
So we hope to learn from what's been done in Appalachia down here.
We hope that as it's down here we're going to expand some of our learnings from the Haynesville across through the Appalachia team.
So we're very excited about that transition down here.
Moving on to Slide 15 this is taking a closer look at what we have in the Harbinger/EXCO partnership.
We closed the partnership in the middle of February this year.
We hold about 24.5% in the partnership and we do operate.
Harbinger holds 75.5%.
In March the partnership did acquire some additional working interest in some conventional wells which we already operated.
That acquisition came from a BG Group.
You can see on this slide we got 2 core operating areas in the partnership and we have high working interest in these assets that in effect comprised this partnership as well along with long-life reserves.
And particularly in these areas we have high BTU liquids-rich gas both in the Permian and in North Louisiana and East Texas.
We're implementing some rig completion projects particularly in North Louisiana.
East Texas/North Louisiana does have some significant number of drilling locations.
These aren't economic at current natural gas prices.
But if prices pick up and we think they will then we'll start implementing some drilling here on these very predictable projects that really can yield some good results for us.
Partnership has a strong growth strategy.
I think Doug and Mark discussed that earlier.
And our teams are looking for opportunities here to grow through acquisitions.
And the business development team is very focused on that activity.
Moving on to Slide 16 we'll focus on TGGT for a second.
Like Doug said in conjunction with BG we're evaluating potential sale of the TGGT system but I will note that this is a very strong business.
Our EBITDA in the first quarter exceeded forecast by about $4.5 million or $5 million.
We actually realized about $37 million of adjusted EBITDA for the quarter.
We've cut expenses.
We've increased efficiencies in our capital costs.
And so it's been a really really strong performer for us.
But like I said we'll see what happens with the transaction activity and go from there.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Miller for closing remarks facilitation of the question-and-answer session.
Okay.
I think all in all we have -- in my mind in my 35 years we have our best team and I hope -- I think this is the trough we've been in.
I think they responded -- we responded as a company like we should have with lower price and lower EBITDA successfully.
But I'm saying this I don't think there's anybody around here who like playing defense all the time.
So we've had a pretty good sizable company meeting and ordered new tennis shoes for everybody.
So I think everybody is excited that we've got everything stabilized and it's now time to play offense.
So we don't have anything to announce today but I would expect Jacobi's group to be quite active and we are going to be very supportive of that.
And so for the time being I think our emphasis is going to be on acquisitions strategic acquisitions very disciplined acquisitions.
So again I think our defensive days are over.
Stay tuned.
With that we are going to open it up for questions.
Jay? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Will Green with Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you guys can expand on the Haynesville completion costs.
You guys have done a great job there lowering those.
I know Hal mentioned a number of things.
What's been the most recent I guess cost control and how much further do you have to go or how much further is there to go if any? And I guess just expand on that if you could.
Yes I hear you and we're going to have to whisper it because I don't want anybody to know what we're doing.
Harold -- I think what I'm seeing they changed a couple completion techniques but I think the main one is drilling days that really gone down.
And Harold why don't you expand on that.
First of all the drilling days we'll continue to improve on our drilling number of days.
You can see on the slide what our drilling days over time looks like.
We'll continue to improve.
Our most recent wells have been 34 days spud to rig release.
The other big factor is just the overall frac conditions.
The market is -- market changes.
Market conditions and the frac design changes.
We'd continue to optimize our completions as Hal mentioned earlier.
That includes just more efficient overall cycle time on each one of the stages at our frac design.
And then these market conditions on the frac.
That's been I think a little bit slowing down and looking back in just cost control.
But the thing that I'm shocked about quite frankly is the drilling days.
That is having the right rig the right crews and doing things exactly right and monitoring that thing.
That's -- I would've bet a lot of money we couldn't get it down below 30 because when we started we're at least 45- to 60-days wells.
And so I would've said 45 is a dream.
But 27 which I saw one on Monday was unbelievable.
Now I don't think -- and I said that when it was 45 I don't think there's room but maybe there's a 25-day deal in our future.
But I don't think there's any way at 20.
Research Division</strong> Are you guys changing anything on the profit side? I know you mentioned different completion techniques.
Are you going to change in the actual profit you're using or the amounts at all? We are.
I mean there's a quiet evolution on the mixture of our profit.
I mean we started out in the very beginning with all intermediate Street profit.
We changed that blend or that combination over time.
And again we continue to make changes.
We have pumps recently we have pumps from all Ottawa jobs all White Sands [ph].
We've made those changes.
We've been monitoring those.
We have several test cases in the ground where we're collecting quite a few -- quite a bit of data now over time.
And we'll continue to test that as well.
That's another big comp of it.
But we are -- I mean over the -- since the very beginning of the play at current we made changes to the crop allocation or distribution.
And I think the other thing that's going on is there's 4 or 5 operators out there that we've shared data with.
And so if they're using one way and we're doing another.
We shared some [ph] best practices.
I've never seen anything like it with the Chesapeakes the Encanas the EOGs and Petrohawks.
When they were here we were sharing.
And they were in here or we were in one of their offices almost every month.
So that's something that was unprecedented sharing that data so we could get there earlier.
I'd say cutting costs for everybody happened years ahead of time because of that sharing.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
The other one I wanted to hit on was consolidation of the Marcellus operations into Dallas.
Is that fully complete? And I know you mentioned you're kind of scaling back the appraisal program.
Once that is fully integrated into Dallas would you guys be ramping that back up? Or how should we think about the Marcellus operations as a result of that? I think that to answer your first question the consolidation by and large is complete.
The asset team is here and it's functioning.
We still have a couple of people that we need to move down.
That said we're going to slow down the Marcellus development this year.
We're going to focus on understanding the data understanding the rock in the different areas that we have and our big focus is going to be preparing for '14.
What we're going to do is we're going to collaborate across our technical teams and make sure that we are giving this thing the best chance of success going forward.
We're very optimistic about what the future holds for certain areas in the Marcellus.
As I've noted we've seen some of our best results today.
But similar to what we've done in the Haynesville we want to make sure that we've given the right look at what our costs are up there and the right look at what our development plan should be with the assets we have and our understanding of it.
I think to elaborate on that we've had the land move in here we've had focus meetings with the geologists and everything.
And so we're trying to find focus areas where we might be able to make some acquisitions or add to our land.
And so those meetings are occurring because I've been involved in them and they've been very productive.
So I'd say right now 1 rig use 1 rig for the rest of this year.
And then depending on -- we probably have areas right now where we could put 3 or 4 rigs together but it's all HBP and we're not in a hurry.
And so I'd rather increase our positions in areas that we think are A areas and we're getting to that.
The next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the Marcellus.
You did see this nice improvement in your IPs.
Can you just add more color on what drove that and then particularly how widespread the stronger IPs are over your acreage position? So can you do it Hal? Well we found some good [indiscernible] up here and we're happy about the rock.
And I really think that's been the main driver it's finding some good areas where we are comfortable with implementing a little bit of a development program.
As far as the costs go we're continuing to take a look at that and make sure we understand it.
We've got some 150 000 160 000 acres that are prospective for the Marcellus up there and we're just taking a hard look at what our opportunities present.
And we are taking a look at how we complete these wells.
We're taking a look at some longer laterals.
We're taking a look at some modifications to the completion design.
So the future's bright.
But that said we want to make sure we're doing the right things with the areas that we have.
I think Brian I think we wasted some time over the last couple of years focusing on detail.
That was part of the reason to consolidate down here.
So guys we're very successful over in the Haynesville to participate easier.
Instead of flying to Pittsburgh they're in the next floor.
So I think getting everybody communicating is going to add.
It's a big area.
There are people having a lot of success up there.
And we're marching towards being one of those guys having a lot of success.
And there are deals available and we are looking at several of them.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So is it your view then that the improvement that you've seen recently can extend more widely over your acreage? Or is it just concentrated in a specific but very sweet portion of [indiscernible]? No no no.
I think we're going to have 4 or 5 areas with this type of results or better.
And I think we've identified them and I think we're going to be increasing our positions in each one of them.
It's not just one area I mean it's probably more broadly across our acreage than we thought 6 months ago.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then when you think about what EXCO would look like 1 year or 1.5 years from now should we expect 4 equally sized core areas in the Eagle Ford West Texas Haynesville and Marcellus? Or something -- some combination different from that? And I guess have you considered the capital needed for these acquisitions? How are you thinking about using equity? Yes the answer is I would still emphasize Haynesville.
I don't think we're going to get bigger in those 2 areas.
West Texas is a big area and there's -- we've bid on 4 or 5 deals ranging from $300 million to close to $1 billion out there and have been unsuccessful.
We're looking.
If you buy the right one there's positive drilling economics there so you would tend to be drilling for oil more than you would for gas because we'll see some 50% type rates of return there.
Same thing in parts of the Eagle Ford.
But our main focus is still going to be gas.
Our main focus is still going to be Haynesville where there are very few deals; and Marcellus where there are some deals.
And -- but we're going to be focused -- I'd say 3/4 -- if I could be perfect we'd be 3/4 gas 1/4 oil.
The next question comes from Amir Arif with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I understand you don't -- you still want to live within cash flow and you'd rather do acquisitions.
But just curious with your reduced well costs where do you see your breakeven economics for drilling in your core Haynesville and in Northeast Marcellus? Well I'm going to throw a number out here Harold.
I think at $7.8 million in the core we're looking at -- that's the amount.
What we call breakeven and what you call breakeven we have to define.
We're looking for a 20% rate of return when we drill a well.
And so in the core Haynesville it's somewhere between $3.50 and $4 an Mcf.
In the -- I'm pretty sure in those recent wells that are coming in at $8 million or $9 million is going to be the same type economics that we can get across where we think they are.
But I would say broadly across most of the Haynesville and -- the marshes run 21 different decline curves there.
We see areas that have a 20% rate of return at $3.50 and we see areas that takes $8 gas.
I mean that's how broad it is.
So cost is one thing but the type of rock varies across and the Haynesville is tiny compared to the Marcellus.
So we're going to see the same things up there and we'll learn.
Way more faults up in the Marcellus.
It goes from gas to gas and liquids across depths are totally different.
So it is going to take a lot more technology and technique and we're going to get there.
But there are clearly AAA areas up in the Marcellus and B areas.
I think $3.50 to $4 would be what we're shooting for.
And I'd love to have -- where it takes $0.50 or whatever it is but we don't have much of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so Doug if you can just elaborate on why your preference is to just add inventory instead of at these levels I think your -- given the returns you're talking about in some of your core areas and adding some activity? Well I think there's a number and drilling within cash flow is something that you underline and we underline that.
So even though there are 25% rates of return there's no hurry.
I don't think gas is going to be a $4 commodity for very long because everybody's figuring out.
You can't drill wells at $4 and make any money.
The inventory that you're talking about we're looking at buying producing assets also.
And as we buy those depending on how we finance them that will increase our cash flow and give us the ability to drill more.
But we're not in a hurry to drill.
I would say we're looking at a gassy area up in the Marcellus 9 times out of 10 with gas prices where they are we can buy producing properties cheaper than we can drill for them.
That's the main decision.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just the final question on TGGT.
I mean in our models but I think on a corporate basis you're trading at 10x EBITDA.
Given that the throughput is not growing in TGGT just curious whether you're looking at that asset sale in terms of the increased liquidity it gives you and how you trade that off against the impact it would have on a pro forma EBITDA valuation if you were to sell it? Well that's -- you're right in the middle of our debate.
There is a number that we should -- we're not looking for liquidity.
What we're looking for is it the right time to sell that.
Liquidity comes with it.
If we're getting a fair price within the right partner because we're going to continue to be partners because we have so much gas tied to we're going to entertain the sale and so will BG.
If we get a business too cheap we'll keep it.
But I think you're going to see bids that are going to be acceptable and we're in negotiations with 3 or 4 parties right now.
But we're not absolutely looking for liquidity but absolutely it would add liquidity.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Howard Henick with Scurlydog Capital.
A couple of quick question.
On your current hedge position a lot of things that are not swaps they're calls.
Now you're treating those as a hedge but what would happen if gas prices went down a lot? Unless calls are different in the gas world that only gives me obligated to sell it in a rally it doesn't really help you much on the downside.
What am I missing? No you're not.
I mean we did some things a year or so ago.
We sold some calls took the premiums and increased our swaps with it and we thought it was smart at the time we got them but we'll never do that again.
But you're absolutely right.
We're hedged if it goes up and we're not hedged if it goes down but we've taken that premium and increased the value of the swaps.
So how hedged are you? You said you're 65% hedged this year.
How hedged are you to a risk of gas prices declining not that I'm expecting that to happen but I'd like to know the answer.
That's the 65%.
Oh 65% is not including the calls then? Right.
Okay Okay.
So the calls are in addition to that? Right.
If it goes up we're 80% hedged.
If it goes down we're 65% hedged.
Next question on -- about TGGT.
I'm still -- following up on the last guy like you've been trying to sell it off and on for over a year at least over a year since I've been talking here about it.
And additionally I thought your motivation was to basically raise cash so you can go out and invest in other assets.
And in response to the other call you said basically now you just want to get a price that works it's a fair price.
So I'm confused as to like what is really -- how do you look at the TGGT partnership as an asset from the point of view of the company? And what's the goal to get rid of it to do what? I mean because originally the thought was "Let's get rid of it.
Let's lower our -- free up some more capital to go invest in deals " because we think that's a higher ROE.
But now I think you're backing away from that.
So maybe I'm missing something but maybe I'm confused.
So help me there.
Well it sounds like you're confused.
Initially we thought about selling it to raise cash.
There's no question about that.
And we had several offers but we weren't quite aligned with BG because quite a few of the offers wanted us to stay as a partner and help manage it.
They were from an infrastructure type of bonds.
We couldn't get our arms around that with BG.
So after about 6 months of having those discussions we and BG decided that we would co-sell it together.
They hired an investment banker we hired an investment banker and that process has been ongoing.
In the meantime we've done several -- we've done the Harbinger deal so the need for cash has waned and we've also improved efficiencies to where I think there's at least a debate at the board level here because it's such a great asset kicking off cash flow and our capital's behind this.
This year we're probably going to have $100 million of free cash after CapEx.
So it becomes a slightly different asset because we are -- our big capital exposure is behind us.
So it's at least a debate and you're right.
And I think you're not the only one confused because it's an asset that if we get the right price for can we reinvest the capital? Yes.
But if we don't get the right -- it could be a public MLP tomorrow and not be a small cap.
So if we were distributing $75 million to $100 million of cash flow.
We got a lot of board members who'd like to buy some of those units.
Okay so what -- given all that what do you think the odds are that it gets sold? Is it -- or have you decided to retain it? And that's my last question.
Boy now you're ringing the bell.
I'd say I don't know.
I'm sorry.
I'd say right now we have 4 offers that we're talking to.
We've had discussions with BG.
We're totally aligned with BG now.
And depending on how these next 30 to 60 days go I'll be happy to tell you.
Sorry.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Brad Heffern with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just take a quick run-through with sort of what your average completion is these days in the Marcellus lateral link frac stages and what sort of completed costs are there? I'll walk you through that.
Our current -- if you look at the most recent wells we've completed our lateral link is typically averaged to about around 4 200 feet.
And within that 4 200 feet of lateral we'll typically be 14 or 15 frac stages.
The completions in the Marcellus are currently a predominantly a slick water design.
And as far as profit it's mostly an ROE-type profit that we use up there.
We've got a couple wells coming out of the [indiscernible] that are going to have longer laterals.
We've got one that we've just recently completed or actually just drilled in case.
It's over a 6 000-foot lateral and then we've got another one that's drilling that's going to be closer to that as well.
So that's part of the increased lateral link that we're assessing up there currently.
How about cost? He asked about it.
Current costs on the shorter laterals with the 4 200-foot 14 to 15 stages all in on the completion side we're at about $3.5 million.
That's in addition to the stimulation cost.
That's everything on the completion cost to add [indiscernible].
What's the total well count? On our most recent development wells we're in the low 6s.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I was wondering if you could sort of give me some vague indication about those 4 to 5 core areas you were discussing earlier.
What's the approximate acreage number on that? Well we've probably got gross 50 000 acres across that and we want to expand that.
It's going to be a challenge but I'm not going to tell you where they are because we will create some competition.
The next question comes from David Neuhauser with Livermore Partners.
My question really centers around like you said with the TGGT asset that I know has been on the market for a while and now you're kind of rethinking of selling or not.
And my view is that like I said there's good free cash flow coming from the company.
What are you looking to do at this point with any excess cash? I mean are you looking to maybe boost the dividend again pay down debt? Or are you looking at areas like in the Marcellus as you've described like where you could potentially acquire or producing assets at a pretty reasonable value.
Are there any assets on that front that you're looking at? We are looking but I'd say right now on the free cash flow at the pipeline all we're doing is paying down debt.
We've paid down $5 million last week as I recall so it's just reducing debt.
Second question we're looking at those assets up in the Marcellus.
We don't need to sell anything to do that.
We have availability and I'd say John's group we've bid on a couple recently and we have 3 or 4 more -- they're not big packages $50 million to $200 million but they all have production with them and they're all in our neighborhood.
So they would be adds in the right areas.
We're not looking to just add acreage to add acreage because we're going to be very focused in 4 or 5 areas up there.
And if it's out of those areas -- and we see a lot more out of those areas than we do see in the area.
All right cool.
And what about like rig utilization rates at this point? I mean do you see them kind of -- where do you see them at this point? I guess what kind of activities are you seeing? Well for us we have 5 rigs right now.
But I continue to see gas rates coming down.
What I didn't realize that was going on was our $100 billion land rush and how many rigs it would take to hold those.
And a lot of companies out there had to run mach 1 because a lot of those were 5 and 7 years.
But I'd say as that comes to completion guys are going to have decisions to make.
Are they going to keep drilling gas wells in marginal areas just because they held the lease? Or are they going to move that rig to oil? And so far the last 12 to 18 months they've been moving rigs to the oil properties because there were good rates of return.
And I don't know I'd say I've been asked this question 100 times the price when we bring more rigs in and I'd say it's going to take north of 5 and I have a feeling in most companies it's going to take north of 5.
All right.
But now we're seeing -- remember you talked a couple of quarters ago how you're describing how oil looks high and gas is low and you're looking a little to get more oily at that point but you said things can change.
Here we are 6 7 months later and guess what? Things have changed and now even today we see [indiscernible] tar and we see gas still holding a strong bit above 4 at least in the front lines.
Is that changing sort of the profile of where you're looking at investing in your assets at this point? Not really.
And now you see the challenge of running a company with volatile commodities.
We have 1 000 people around here.
We're working -- we're still looking in 2 oil areas.
We understand the math and we still think there's upside we're still looking in the gas areas.
I think if we could make the right acquisitions in the Haynesville or the Marcellus and it was gas if we took on leverage we would hedge it.
And we would consider developing it but I think we'd all sit around and make sure we're well within our cash flow.
This isn't a marathon.
And my last question is...
[indiscernible] My last question was again you mentioned you've been spinning out things like TGGT and potential MLP.
I mean are there things you're looking at in that regard to sort of extract further value and help the valuation of the company at this point? Well I think the challenge with TGGT is if we get a price we have advisors that are in here all the time.
If at some price we sell it and if we can make the right contract with whoever the operator is that we can get along with and hook up -- because we have -- still have a lot of drilling over there.
That's one thing.
And the second one is what do we get if we go public if we did an MLP.
That's a different discussion and a different problem.
Yet sitting here running a second public company I'm having a hard time doing it with one.
I mean it's just out there yet Chesapeake did it.
And access is a big animal right now.
And that isn't the reason we would do it.
We would hope that there is a public MLP out there that is in our neighborhood that is a good operator that we could team up with.
Okay and just lastly and I know it's probably out there and you've heard this again for a while.
But given sort of the shareholder makeup you guys have you guys have very strong deep-pocketed shareholders and the board as well it has tremendous experience.
And then of course there's you at the helm.
So when you look at that and all the moves you're making leading out the organization.
And again gas has gone up and you're reducing cost.
I mean if the equity stays on this range essentially for a period of time I mean are we essentially going to look at the company and just -- we don't see this go private at some point again if things aren't getting the value that shareholders want? Well I'm 2 out of 3 I'm going private but the last one was brutal.
I would say no discussion today of going private but I think you honed in on something.
We have a significant strong board.
We have a -- that has fairly deep pockets who gives us access to capital that a lot of companies don't have.
And I can -- if gas price is here and we're able to make some acquisitions I would bet that a lot of those guys would add to their position.
I mean I can kind of tell you where 70% of the stock is with 10 people right now.
So I'm not -- we're not totally private but we're heading in that direction.
[Operator Instructions] We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to Mr.
Miller.
Okay.
Thanks everybody for coming.
You gave us some easy questions today.
Brian you got to do better than that.
Again I think we're in a trough expect some action out of us because we're coming out and we're working on deals.
And so expect to hear from us in the near future.
Thanks everybody for being up.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is LeRalle and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to EXCO Resources Second Quarter Earnings Release and Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Mark Mulhern Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining the second quarter EXCO Resources earnings call.
I'm Mark Mulhern Chief Financial Officer.
With me today in Dallas are Doug Miller our Chairman and CEO; and Hal Hickey our President; and Chris Peracchi our Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations.
There are a number of other senior management folks in the room but I won't introduce them all.
We posted a set of slides on our IR website last night and we will be reviewing that material on this call.
On Pages 16 and 17 of the slide deck we have included our disclosures regarding forward-looking statements.
I would ask you to consider those pages along with the rest of our SEC filings when evaluating our company.
Today's presentation does include forward-looking information.
So now I'll turn the call over to Doug Miller for some opening remarks.
Hal Hickey and I will come back and go through the slide deck with you in our respective areas.
And then we'll go to Q&amp;A.
So Doug over to you.
Thanks Mark.
I think everybody realized we've been very busy here over the last actually a year on the Chesapeake deal.
Literally 50 people around here have been working day and night for the last 2 months to get them across the finish line.
We'll get into those but great acquisitions.
We've been working on the Eagle Ford for over a year with Chesapeake.
We've bid on 4 or 5 deals.
It's an area that we have had some focus on and we'll get into it later.
But we're real happy with it.
I think the deal that was negotiated was a good deal for both Chesapeake and us.
To date we've met with CNOOC who is a partner in the deal.
And 2 of the largest landowners we've had 2 meetings with them because it's very critical that our operating people have communication with the large land owners.
The land owners -- this is 312 000 gross acres and it's very critical that everybody cooperates.
So our guys have already started talking schedules with them.
So I think it's going to be good.
I think everybody's at -- we're all aligned.
They would like as much production on their land as we can get and so can we.
And I think for the first time they're going to see somebody like us who has created manufacturing in a lot of wells off of single pads which we've been doing over in the Haynesville.
So those meetings have gone great and we're looking forward to working with those people.
The Haynesville acquisition was -- 90% of it was wells we already operate.
We took that over earlier no people needed.
I think you will see EXCO begin hiring quite a few people here this year.
I consider the last 6 months kind of our low for the last 3 or 4 years.
We're back at it.
We're looking at additional acquisitions.
Second quarter results were solid.
I think I've heard a couple of people yell at me about only making $0.10.
The $0.10 one of the things that we have a hard time is at the very end we get our DD&amp;A rate from our -- and our DD&amp;A rate was slightly higher and that was a couple of cents.
So if somebody can help me forecast DD&amp;A rates for the next 2 quarters we'll probably be better at forecasting.
G&amp;A was slightly higher than forecast but I think we talked about -- we moved most of our Appalachian group during the second quarter down here.
And so we had some extraordinary expenses in there.
I think they'll be back to normal going into the third and fourth quarters.
Cash flow was better than expected slightly better pricing.
Revenues were slightly better than we forecast.
Again clean living and higher prices helped us there.
Overall solid results but I think from now on you're going to start seeing some significant differences in our makeup oil and gas.
I think our guys are very excited about the Eagle Ford and we'll get into that a little later.
I think we're just taking it over we're getting a lot of cooperation from Chesapeake's operating people.
What we're think about doing because we're going to have a hard time today forecasting '14 is really over the next 30 to 60 days getting all the dust off and the data up so we can make good forecasts.
And maybe in October we'll have an Analyst Day in Dallas where we can go over everything in detail.
I think that would be something I'm going to suggest.
I see everybody writing that down now.
So I think that would be best for everybody from a public standpoint.
If we gave you a forecast on production or cash flows or anything today we wouldn't -- it would not be a great one.
I mean we can give you a range but I would rather give you good solid detail against production and forecast.
Acquisitions.
Again I talked about the acquisitions.
Keep in mind this was a billion-dollar deal that we started working on the Eagle Ford we started working on July of last year.
It did have its bumps in the road.
I started negotiating it with Aubrey and when he retired we had other people but it evolved into basically EXCO is buying the PDP which is fairly significant and which we like.
It's what pays down debt.
And then at the same we're negotiating a final agreement with KKR on our joint drilling deal and it's something that we had an outline of and an MOU 6 months ago.
We've actually worked on 3 or 4 deals with them that we've bid on.
Never got them across the finish line.
But once we got this across the finish line the agreement that we had with the top people at KKR who are great ended up in the lawyers and now we have deals in case the sun comes up in the West instead of the East.
But it took us about 30 or 60 days of detailed work there.
Again in that deal it is a joint venture where they put up 50% of the land.
They're going to put up 70% of the drilling on basically drilling PUDs.
And then we have some rights to buy it back after a year.
But when we closed the deal we had 300 locations identified.
And we think that's right but I think we're going to start -- Mike help me -- with 4 rigs starting September 1.
And the reason we were kind of anticipating 5 but I think our estimates on this were a spacing of 500 feet.
And I think what we're going to do because we're starting to hear in some areas down there they're actually going down to 250 feet.
We think 500 is right but we're going to have some spacing tests between now and year end.
Whether it's 250 feet -- if it ends up being 250 feet which I think is highly unlikely that would double the potential locations.
But we're going to try 250 feet 300 feet and 400 feet see if those are right and see if 500 feet is right.
So hopefully by -- now we won't know that by October but we can tell you where we're testing.
Harbinger joint venture which was closed in the first quarter conventional gas continues to operate in very good shape.
We have a couple of things planned for there.
We've made one little acquisition there and we have groups together.
We're looking at several significant acquisitions in that joint venture.
It's working just as expected.
It's conventional long life gas with a lot of locations parked over there.
But there's quite a few of those type deals on the market right now so we have a group putting in quite a bit of time.
KKR deal again was something that we've been working on a long time.
They have an affiliate who is probably as knowledgeable as any private equity group we've seen.
They've done a lot of energy deals.
They have engineers; they have geologists.
They have a lot of history in the Eagle Ford.
And our people have been working closely with them.
I bet we've had 10 meetings Marcia? And so far there hasn't been a fight yet that we haven't won.
I'll take Marcia against anybody.
But it's been -- they're good and I think the reason they wanted to team up is because of our people.
And the thing about having BG as a partner BG I think everybody realizes has a right to buy a half interest in the Haynesville.
They have 'til September 12 to give us an answer.
We don't -- we really don't know.
They've been in.
We've given them all the data.
We just don't know which way they're going to come out so we'll report when that happens.
And we'll go either way.
That's their right.
The joint ventures with Harbinger and BG and KKR give us a lot of flexibility.
I think KKR is very interested.
We've kind of created a cookie cutter to do this joint venture in other significant plays.
We are looking at other areas.
I think we've talked to you about that.
We are -- we would like to get bigger in the Marcellus and we have spent a lot of time.
There's a lot of people in this room that spent a lot of time out in Midland.
And so if we can find the right West Texas deal that would be another area that we would have an interest.
If everybody would turn to Slide 3 -- Slide 4 I'm sorry.
$1 billion of acquisitions.
I think with our board this was highly debated these 2 acquisitions with EXCO where it is.
The borrowing base and revolver on it were key parts of this.
It was -- our banks did a great job.
So one of the things that we're going to be working on here for the rest of the year and next year is create a plan that pays debt off fast while we develop it.
And I think that's what the KKR allows us to do.
I think production we're probably going to have some surprises here.
We bought all the PDP and I think we gave models to both the banks and internally.
But late we found out we have -- so I think we're going to expect some surprises maybe by the fourth quarter -- there are 22 wells that were completed and not on production and 2 more drilling that we're buying 100% of.
And so Mike and Harold as we get those turned over they'll probably be taking over the completion parts of a lot of those wells.
We expect them all to be good.
A significant amount of them are in the core area.
But just to separate the land from the partnerships we went ahead and took over all those.
So I kind of expect some significant production surprises by the fourth quarter but I can't tell you what they are.
So as soon as we dust all those off and get them we'll be able to report that in October.
Midstream TGGT you guys are getting -- going crazy.
We're down to 3 people.
We're working on an MOU as we speak.
We're in communication with BG.
They're actually coming in today.
We're going to have a meeting with them and we're try to get that across the finish line.
It would go a long way to reducing that $400 million bridge part.
We expect that -- I'm not going to give any more dates because everybody thinks I'm a liar but we're actually in final negotiations with 3 people.
Managing capital spending.
It's something that we talk about every Monday.
We've been able to have some spectacular results in the Haynesville.
We're forecasting and I think the last couple of wells -- Harold help me -- $7.5 million which is kind of way below what we thought we'd ever get to.
But the last 5 or 6 wells have been right on that number which helps our economics.
We're using $7.2 million for our wells down the Eagle Ford on our modeling.
And if we can take what we know in the Haynesville down there it wouldn't surprise me to get that down to $6.5 million pretty quick.
That's my target.
Harold is -- he hates me saying that out loud but I think that's actually what he thinks he can do too.
Again our focus for the Eagle Ford is to become one of the better operators down there.
Our guys have been pawing at the dirt for the last 6 months because we thought we were going to close this earlier.
We're ready willing and able.
And I think the team's set up and ready to go down there.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Hal to go over some operations.
Thanks Doug and good morning to everyone on the call.
At EXCO we've had another strong operational quarter and I want to thank our employees contractors service companies across all of our businesses and areas for their efforts.
We continue to implement our company strategy that Doug just talked about.
We're very focused on working safely and in full compliance as we manage our base business and expand the portfolio through acquisitions both in core areas and in new plays like the Eagle Ford.
Moving to Slide 6 you can see that we provide an overview of our areas and activities.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see our key operating areas particularly located in Texas Louisiana Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
Back on June 30 we had 4 operated rigs running across the portfolio but as we make these acquisitions and we further some of our plans and we get these drilling partnerships in place we could end the year with 11 12 or so rigs as their plans are developed and implemented both in the new areas and in those areas where we've had ongoing operations.
Moving particularly to Haynesville/Bossier area located in DeSoto Parish Louisiana primarily we've continued our manufacturing-type development with a 3-rig drilling program.
And we now have 39 fully developed units.
With the acquisition in July of the 11 new sections from Chesapeake and I'll note that these sections are immediately contiguous with our previously owned acreage we now have 40 or more -- 40 or so units that we can develop in this core area.
And this is the area we designated as the heart of the Haynesville play.
As you can see on our slide 97% of our acreage is held by production.
And like Doug said I want to advise everyone that we continue to drop our average well costs in the Haynesville.
Total drilling and completion has been averaging about $7.7 million per well and like Doug said we've seen some recent all-in costs as low as $7.5 million.
Moving to Eagle Ford.
In our newly acquired area of South Texas again acquired from Chesapeake we plan to implement a manufacturing-type development program with 4 to 5 rigs.
We have 3 rigs drilling there today.
We believe we can generate some additional efficiency in the drilling and completion program by moving to this manufacturing mode that we've talked about where we simultaneously develop multiple wells in a unit from a small number of pads.
This development program will be done in conjunction with our working interest partners and KKR.
And KKR is going to fund 75% of our interest for drilling and completion costs through their newly formed drilling partnership with us.
Now in Appalachia we're very focused on evaluating our Marcellus shale acreage.
We've successfully moved the appropriate engineers geoscientists landmen accountants and other personnel from Pennsylvania to Dallas so that we can enhance our communications and share technology across teams better than we ever have.
And we don't have any rigs operating for us in Appalachia as of today but we will be drilling an appraisal well up there later this quarter.
We have about 2/3 of our Marcellus acreage held by production and our technical and land staffs are evaluating the acreage to determine what we're going to be doing to renew hold by drilling or release acreage up there.
In the Permian area outside of the partnership we actually have some acreage we acquired in the fourth quarter of '12.
We partnered with an experienced Permian player there and we're going to be evaluating this acreage for upside opportunities.
Now like Doug talked about we've got the partnership with Harbinger Group that we formed back in February this year and we put our East Texas North Louisiana and Permian area conventional assets into the entity which has its own credit facility.
We bought BG Group's Cotton Valley assets in March and put them into the partnership.
And like Doug said we're continuing to seek additional conventional assets to buy and put into this business to grow it.
Finally on Slide 6 I'll reiterate that we're continuing our efforts in conjunction with BG to sell our equity interest in TGGT our midstream business and that business should have EBITDA somewhere in the $135 million to $140 million or so range for full year '13 and EXCO holds 50% of TGGT.
Moving over to Slide 7.
It provides an overview of our Eagle Ford acquisition assets and plan.
The deal closed at the end of July and contains acreage in Zavala Dimmit Frio and La Salle Counties in the oil window of the play.
We acquired about 55 000 acres associated with producing assets and we have a farm-out option on nearly 150 000 additional net acres.
Our initial development plan focuses on the 21 000-acre core area which is primarily in Zavala and this will be the initial area of focus for our EXCO/KKR drilling partnership.
In this area this core area we have some 300 identified drilling locations and we plan to operate 4 or 5 rigs in the area in the near future.
This acquisition has internally engineered reserves of about 29 million barrels of oil equivalent as of April 1 the effective date of the transaction and that's using NYMEX strip pricing.
But as we sold some of our proved undeveloped reserves to KKR as part of the partnership transaction the net reserves of EXCO down there is slightly over 20 million barrels of oil equivalent.
Finally on this slide you can see that our recent production totaled about 6 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day and oil makes up about 85% or so of those volumes.
The last slide I'll talk about is on Slide 8 where we get into an overview of the Haynesville acquisition again from Chesapeake that closed mid-July.
As I noted earlier and as you can see on the slide this acreage is immediately South and contiguous with our quality Haynesville acreage in DeSoto Parish where we've had our ongoing manufacturing program.
We acquired incremental working interest of about 22% on some 5 700 net acres from Chesapeake and 170 wells that EXCO operates and we acquired 62% working interest on 11 000 net acres within 11 sections that were formerly operated by Chesapeake.
And we'll add some 55 drilling locations from these 11 sections which are all held by production.
Internally engineered reserves with this acquisition total about 365 Bcfe effective January 13 again run with a management price deck based on NYMEX.
Earlier this year the production totaled about 114 million a day.
However as typically occurs in these shale plays and without any drilling the production has been on the forecast to decline rate and it now totals about 80 million or so per day of net volumes.
Now with that I'm going to turn the discussion back over to Mark Mulhern who is going to take us through some details regarding our transactions the financial performance and our guidance for the quarter and the year.
Thank you Hal.
And I will briefly cover Slides 10 through 15 and just hit the high spots.
I now we've provided you previous information on these acquisitions.
But just to go through the strategic rationale slide on Page 10 it's a pretty good summary of why we're so excited about these deals.
First point I'd make is cash flow from PDP.
The mix of producing properties and development opportunities fit our financial appetite well and allows us the opportunity to increase EXCO's overall production and cash flow.
On the diversity front the Eagle Ford provides us with a new play and an inventory of drilling locations.
It lessens our concentration on dry gas and comes with production history to shorten our learning curve.
In terms of the Haynesville this fortifies our position in the Haynesville.
These assets are synergistic with our holdings there and allows us to leverage our existing infrastructure and experience on more locations.
Finally there are some real upsides related to the farm-out acreage additional horizons and operational efficiencies.
So we were able to put in some hedges above our acquisition price assumptions.
So we've gotten off to a very good start here.
If you turn to Slide 11.
Just a couple of minutes on our partnership with KKR.
Number one as Doug talked about they have a very strong technical team in Houston and have real-time experience in the Eagle Ford through their ventures with Hilcorp and Comstock.
Number two they have money and want to invest in commodities.
And number three we believe the structure we have aligns both parties very well.
KKR gets their return on investment with a high velocity of capital resulting in attractive IRRs but they have a cap on their return.
EXCO gets access to acquire production at fair market values after financing just 25% of the drilling capital.
So we expect to drill 20 or 30 wells per quarter.
And as Doug said we've identified 300-plus locations supported by our engineering and KKR's.
The result is EXCO gets to acquire producing properties over the next 3 to 4 years without having to necessarily go to data rooms compete in auctions and face competition for these properties.
So all in all a very good structure for both companies in our opinion.
If you go to Slide 12 just to hit the high spots on the numbers.
As Doug said at the outset we realized higher prices in the quarter which offset year-over-year production declines.
Our operating costs continue to decline partially helped by the formation of the EXCO/HGI Partnership in February where our conventional long-lived assets were sold to that entity.
G&amp;A was higher due to nonrecurring items for severance and relocation of our Appalachian office to Dallas and the senior management succession at EXCO.
And finally cash flow was approximately $0.03 per share above our guidance.
Again overall what I'd say a solid quarter.
The last item I'll note on this slide is that we have estimated our internally generated engineered proved reserves to be 1.5 Tcfe with a PV-10 value of 1.9 billion at June 30 2013.
This is pro forma for the acquisitions at their respective effective dates and includes the Haynesville Properties that BG has a pref right to.
Turning to Slide 13.
We have summarized our liquidity on this slide.
Again about a $300 million decrease from 6/30/13 when the acquisitions are pro forma-ed in.
And importantly the asset sale tranche has already been reduced by the $131 million net on the Eagle Ford land purchase from KKR.
We've also included the liquidity available at TGGT and EXCO/HGI on this slide which are both in good shape on availability.
So then I would turn to Slide 14.
Again just give you a quick snapshot on where we are with respect to second quarter guidance.
So it shows we exceeded our second quarter adjusted EBITDA guidance by approximately $6 million for the quarter.
As I noted earlier the negative variance in G&amp;A and the underspending in CapEx are the most notable variances for the quarter when you look at where we are with the guidance.
So again pretty accurate in terms of the forecast relative to what we expected for Q2.
And then on Slide 15.
This is my final slide before we take your questions.
We've updated our adjusted EBITDA guidance to reflect the 2 acquisitions and the items that we know about.
So overall guidance for the year is up $95 million to $435 million.
This is again adjusted EBITDA versus our previous guidance of $340 million.
The bulk of this is driven by production increases obviously in oil and in gas; higher prices which are mostly supported by hedges; and cost management we expect for the remainder of the year.
So we've updated our CapEx estimates.
But I think as Doug and Hal both referred to we're honestly just digesting this acquisition and we're still finalizing our drilling plans and a rate at which we will ramp up in the Eagle Ford and our new sections in the Haynesville.
So more to come on our CapEx and frankly our forecast into '14.
So before I turn the call back over to Doug for questions and answers we're very pleased to be in the position to raise the guidance today and to begin to execute on harvesting the value of these acquisitions for our shareholders.
So thank you.
And I'll let Doug officiate the Q&amp;A.
Okay.
Before we get into Q&amp;A just one of the things that we negotiated with the banks was the ability to hedge prior to closing.
We agreed that we would hedge up to 80% for '13 '14 '15.
That has all been accomplished.
Probably an average of about $10 a barrel that's all on our books now.
Now the one thing that we're going to be looking at Tyler's [ph] working on it as we complete these next 22 wells plus the 2 or 3 that are drilling we would probably go forward and hedge some more oil because we think those things could come in pretty good.
And as we get PDPs we'll look at doing that.
With that I'll open it up for questions.
And we'll stick with you as long as you need us.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A question on -- there's probably a simple explanation here.
But what's the difference between the 50% sold to KKR for the undeveloped acreage or whatever for the acreage and the 75% that they're funding? And why aren't the 2 numbers exact? It's the structure of the deal.
We consider owning the land an equity investment and so we split the equity investment with them on the land side.
Those were all locations that were evaluated on PV-20s.
So we split that.
And then the drilling which has slightly more risk they're putting up 75% and we're putting up 25%.
It's a way of structuring something.
I think we worked on it for a year and we're planning on doing more of them.
Research Division</strong> So if you -- in the participation agreement when you buy the 75% that's the 75% of the well value? Yes.
And what we're doing is we're -- this is anticipated right now to be 16 quarterly separate partnerships the way it's scheduled.
Now it could increase as we find more locations when a group of wells which they will prove and we will prove.
They're working on it as we speak.
And it looks like it's going to be between 20 and 30 depending on timing and how many rigs we have running.
Once they're on production 12 months later we will buy -- we have the ability to buy them in at PV-10 of -- just PDP those 20 to 30 wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So how do we think about then what residual interest after the sale of the well KKR has? They'll still have a residual interest in the PUDs for 50%? Yes.
Yes yes yes.
They will own 50% of the PUDs until we drill them up.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You talked about paying down debt and I'm really trying to focus on that in your opening comments.
When you think about doing that how much is a function of internally generated free cash flow versus asset sales? And from the free cash flow front how do you think about your rig count in the Haynesville going forward? And then how you invest towards oil growth versus gas growth? Yes.
I would say the idea is we have a couple of things that are on the block right now.
We'll find out about BG having a half-interest that would be 140 million or so that they have the right to do.
Again I don't know what they're going to do.
I can't imagine them not taking it.
But if they don't we love owning 100% of it.
We'll know that by the middle of September.
TGGT is the only other asset sale that we have on the block.
The rest of it will be from internally generated funds.
We're working on our capital program right now.
Depending on how we end up with production I think we're going to be -- I think we're looking at around the $300 million capital budget for next year.
Now there's a possibility that we might be putting the Haynesville into a drilling joint venture like the KKR.
If that's the case it will have significant paydowns.
If not we'll have paydowns from cash flow.
And I'm kind of mentally targeting $200 million to $400 million a year under our current scenarios.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you mentioned your interest in doing more acquisitions.
What do you look for to determine that the company is at steady state and yet pursuing meaningful acquisitions makes less sense.
So are you looking for a certain resource life or an oil to gas mix or just a bigger acreage position in the Haynesville the Permian Basin? What should we look for for you to determine okay we've now kind of arrived? Well we've been here for a long time.
But I'd say there's 2 areas that -- number one the Haynesville is an area that we know there's 5 or 6 players in there.
There's a couple of smaller players.
We're in discussions with all of them.
That's an easy deal for us because we don't need people.
Marcia's got the whole area evaluated.
It's pretty simple for us to evaluate.
There aren't a lot of deals out there but we're in discussions on 2 or 3 fronts on that right now.
Most of them would include some production with them.
Almost everything in our neighborhood or a neighborhood that we'd have an interest in has at least one well drilled on each unit.
So those discussions are underway.
Eagle Ford we have a good asset that we have.
We are working with KKR right now on some of the farm-out acreage.
We're going to be doing some science work maybe doing some coring maybe drilling a well or 2.
There's another 20 000 or 30 000 acres on there right now we need to evaluate as soon as possible.
I think our guys are working on that capital budget right now.
There are other deals in the Eagle Ford.
There have been for the last 1.5 years.
There's some large players down there and there's a lot of littles and we're reviewing those.
So that's an area that we'll have a lot of focus on.
West Texas is an area I think I've mentioned before now we would love to be involved in a fairly large way.
I would say any deals we do in West Texas would include production.
We're not very good at just going out and buying acreage.
We want production to come with it and a way to evaluate what the locations how close they are et cetera.
So we're kind of conservative.
And so any acquisition out in West Texas would have significant production probably to go with it or a real reason to be able to evaluate some of the locations as PUDs.
Up in the Marcellus we're looking at the dry gas windows up there.
There are several deals for sale.
That would be the area of focus.
We're looking at maybe doing some trades with some of the other operators up there.
What we -- unfortunately for us we have a lot of acreage but we don't have 100 000 acres together.
We have a lot of plays up there where we have 15 20 locations to drill and then we're kind of done in the area.
And that's one of the difficulties up there.
And so we're working on some trades with some of the larger companies where they have 10 000 or 15 000 acres in the same neighborhood.
And it looks like we're going to be successful because we have some acreage that fits them.
So those are kind of the 4 areas 2 of them big gassy areas Haynesville and the Marcellus.
And 2 of them would be oil areas one of them we're underway the other one we're looking which would be the Eagle Ford and West Texas.
Wolfcamp and Cline is really the emphasis and probably more towards the Permian Basin than the Delaware.
So Brian one more point.
I think the reason we like this KKR deal is we have to constantly fight the decline curve right? So in terms of production.
If we don't -- if we're not busy in acquisition space and we're just standing still we've got a declining asset base.
So the beauty of the KKR deal is it gives us some access to trying to flatten out and/or get that decline curve offset so that we can have growing cash flow for the company.
And so I don't know if I have -- your question was do we have a magic target where we would just stop acquisitions? I think Doug's answer is probably not.
We're kind of going to constantly be in the evaluation business of how to keep that decline curve either at least flat if not increasing over time -- production curve at least increasing over time.
And I think the KKR deal gives us -- starting in a year we have 16 quarters of acquisitions without having to go to data room.
So that's the advantage to us.
And I think again the concept we've been working on for almost 2 years with the KKR people it totally aligns us.
We're incentivized to keep the costs down.
We're incentivized as they are to maximize production and maximize cash flow.
So I think it's a really good deal with a really good group that everybody's interests are 100% aligned.
Research Division</strong> And then just a point of clarification on the Eagle Ford joint development agreement here.
I think on Slide 7 you said there's a 70% working interest in the Eagle Ford properties.
Does that mean that when a well gets drilled that EXCO will have a 35% interest or a lower interest and then you'd have to then in a year from then sell or buy the rest of it from KKR if you so choose? It's actually lower than that.
The 70% working interest is us and KKR together.
The rest of it is CNOOC.
So we have a quarter of the 70% whatever that is like 18%? I'm not good at math.
So roughly 18% of the working interest and then a year from now we would have the ability to buy out the rest and get us up close to the 70%.
That's the whole idea.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to kind of clarify something on the Eagle Ford JV terms here with KKR.
I guess I've seen a little bit of conflicting language in your kind of prior press releases and versus what I saw today.
Leo Leo that's wrong but keep going.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Let me see if I can explain a little bit better.
Is the repurchase of the KKR interest in the Eagle Ford mandatory or optional for EXCO? Well it's -- there's a formula.
We want to buy it.
We will give them a bid.
And under 90% of the circumstances as long as the sun keeps coming up in the east and prices haven't gone to 0 it will be -- they could turn it down.
Leo be -- let's be really clear here.
We have an obligation to make an offer.
KKR then has to -- anyway it has a decision to make on whether to accept or decline that offer and some of it is based on the level of return that we've negotiated.
That's as clear as it can be.
And I'd say it's a function of -- more a function of oil price.
If it were to go to $50 in 6 months they have -- or 12 months they have the ability to hold it and then sell it at a future date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean basically is your offer price I think you implied this earlier would be PV-10 on the remaining production on the wells at strip pricing? Is that right? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean you pretty much know what the offer price is ahead of time.
So like you said if oil is in the toilet they'd probably say no and keep it? Exactly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay well that's clear here for sure.
So -- and you kind of talked about 16 quarters of payments.
Am I totally crazy in my math or am I thinking somewhere around $70 million a quarter on that? Is that reasonable? Well it depends on oil price and I would say that's reasonable.
But if it's 30 wells it's probably closer to $100 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
All right.
And I guess in terms of the CapEx number you guys stated for next year.
Doug obviously your budget's not done and you talked about $300 million.
Clearly you're ramping up pretty hard in Eagle Ford here.
If I just looked at your fourth quarter CapEx call it $110 million roughly and sort of multiplied that 4 by 4 that'd give me about $450 million for the year.
Are you saying that you're going to ramp down gas drilling pretty aggressively next year and just drill the Eagle Ford in 2014? No.
I think in each one of the areas we have to look at our working interest and do we want to put it into a KKR-type joint venture.
I think what we've been doing is we've been running -- we've been looking at 3-rig program for BG.
They want their capital program ahead of time.
We've been working on that for them.
But if we end up putting our drilling in the Haynesville into a KKR-type structure that would be half of that.
So we're looking at both of them right now.
KKR and other people have indicated an interest in doing the same type of joint venture.
So we're working on it.
When I pitch out $300 million or $400 million that's kind of where we are as of 2 days ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
But that -- I guess that presupposes the Haynesville is in the JV for...
No no no.
Well keep in mind in the Eagle Ford 30 wells a quarter times 18% times $7.2 million is only $125 million $130 million for next year.
So there's plenty of room for Haynesville and Marcellus and potentially West Texas.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And any update on what you guys are planning in West Texas? I mean you mentioned having some acreage outside the partnership you're testing.
You said emphasis in the Midland basin.
You mentioned Wolfcamp Cline.
Can you give us any more color on that? No thanks.
We have a joint venture.
We're working on it and we're not going to say where we are because we may be looking on doing some more leasing.
We shouldn't have said what we said.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And I guess in the Haynesville just to clarify I want to see if I heard this correctly in prepared comments.
But the acquisition you did from Chesapeake the current production there is now 80 million a day? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And when you guys announced it it was somewhere around 114 million and I guess pretty steep decline.
What kind of declines are you expecting on that going forward? Just like what we've experienced with the restricted choke program.
The early declines are 67% 70% and it bounces out over time.
So nothing new there.
That's just technical performance.
That's kind of the way they are.
And after 5 6 years Marcia says that decline will go down and we're witnessing that.
And there may be some work-over work that we can be doing on some of that existing production or maybe some cleanouts that we can do.
So our guys are evaluating that right now.
That's the problem with shales.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes now understood.
And I guess in the Marcellus it sounds like you've kind of moderated activity for the rest of the year.
I know you talked about blocking up trading some acreage and be getting some other stuff.
I mean would you think that there's a decent chance that you guys start increasing activity on that next year? How should we think about Marcellus going forward? Yes.
I think the idea is to get all those people down here everybody work together let's make sure that we become a really good operator up there.
I think first few meetings I've been in the intent is there and our drilling costs have come down significantly.
And there's no hurry.
I think right now our -- if we have a weakness it is that we don't have enough blocked up acreage and we're working on that.
And I'm not saying 10 000 acres and -- good enough for a company our size to go drill 20 or 30 wells but there's no hurry with gas prices where they are.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Leight with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Leo and others have covered a lot but just a couple of questions on the KKR agreement.
I guess one question was in terms of the capital to fund the buyback or the buy-in to the wells that would significantly increase your program.
What are your thoughts there on how that gets funded? Well number one we're going to be paying down debt.
And number two it looks like everything will fit under a revolver-type deal because it's all PDP.
We've talked to the banks and shown them forecasts.
It looks like it will be available under revolver.
If it takes extra we have a board and that we've worked with on a lot of deals that have a lot of deep pockets and many of them have indicated an interest in putting up more money whether it's debt or equity.
We kind of have that in our hip pocket.
So I don't foresee any issues and I -- and we're definitely not going to stress the balance sheet.
If we need equity we have quite a bit of it in our hip pocket that we can privately source.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you wouldn't be thinking about some creative financing for...
Well we might.
If you have an idea we're open.
But I'd say right now it's straight down the middle of the fairway-type stuff.
On $100-million-type acquisition we would expect at least 50% of that and maybe as much as 60% with hedges to be available under a revolver.
So we should have plenty of capacity and room as we go forward.
But if you come up with something unique Adam get your rump in here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just who's going to do the evaluation is it your engineers or somebody else? Well we -- both.
We'll do them they'll do them and we have Netherland Sewell that will sprinkle holy water on it.
So no it is -- Marcia literally spent a month kind of going over how the evaluation because they wanted to evaluate it as high.
We just wanted to evaluate it right because we have to book it as a public company.
And that all has been talked about in unbelievable detail.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you didn't talk at all about TGGT.
I don't know if you can.
Is this -- are you still looking hoping for a sale of your entire interest or is it looking more like you keep something like well rights because BG have -- on your...
We're doing this together with BG.
We're down to 3 people.
We're working on an MOU as we speak.
And it could -- it probably would be 100% but there's a possibility that we might keep an interest depending on who the buyer is.
I mean we're active over there.
And the Harbinger joint venture is going to continue to buy Cotton Valley and we're going to continue to develop Haynesville and Bossier.
And that's a critical asset to both of those.
And so one of the -- 2 of the groups that we're talking to have gathering systems and gas plants in the neighborhood so it fits like a glove.
So we're just kind of wading through it and we're doing it together with BG.
If we sell they sell.
If they sell we'll sell.
And if we hold a small interest or an option or whatever we'll split it 50-50.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess finally for Mark.
The guidance table does that assume no pref right exercise by BG or is that included in there? I believe it's not assumed but I will confirm that for you.
Your next question comes from the line of Devin Geoghegan with Nexus.
I'm a little confused so maybe I could just rewind a little bit.
On the first press release on July 31 the deal was I guess described as you guys have the right to purchase and now the legal disclosure language has changed to required to purchase.
What I'm confused on is as you guys said the purchase price seems clearly preset based upon a formula that KKR obviously liked in the purchase agreement and it seems that they would clearly hit your required offer.
So when you guys account for this is this actually a JV? Because it seems like just a structured financing deal worth around $1.5 billion of future debt.
No no no.
I think you read it wrong.
It's not a set prescribed.
The number will be determined 12 months later based on whatever oil prices and gas prices are.
Does that mean you guys are essentially short oil? If the oil goes up then you guys have to make a higher purchase price? No.
We're not short against the drilling.
We're short against the PDP that we already have.
We will not be hedging that because -- at the time -- unless we want to.
But at the time we'll be using the forward strip every quarter and the purchase price will be determined at that time.
I see.
So essentially like you drill a well and you spend some money and then the value of the reserves are what they are.
So if oil goes to say $110 the well is worth more so you have to pay more.
That makes sense to me.
What I'm trying to understand is is this accounted for as like off-balance-sheet debt like have the rating agencies opined on it or is this like a JV? This is a JV purely a JV.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess yet another question on this participation agreement.
So I understand you have the 25% of the well already so -- but I understand when MLPs buy more PDP reserves.
But could you review again what is the appealing aspect of a exploration company/development company to be involved in this? I mean the MLPs do it but they throw off a lot of cash ends up back in our pocket.
I'm just trying to understand what the appeal here is for you and what sort of juice you have what's the angle of additional upside after you make a fully engineered PV-10 purchase.
Subash let me explain something.
What we're trying to do around here is create PDPs.
That's how you pay off debt.
You don't pay it off by buying a bunch of acreage.
So over the next 5 years we're going to have a partner who is totally aligned with us drilling wells and we're going to create a lot of PDP and -- which creates a lot of EBITDA which creates the ability to pay down debt and/or create additional dividends.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But in order to -- so I understand with the PDPs this will be fully funded probably by the bank line.
They'll go in fund this acquisition in all likelihood.
But how do you pay the debt down? I mean it sounds like there's a net -- big net at cash outflow here which are the PDP requirements.
Subash as usual you don't know what you're talking about.
I mean we think if we have enough of these in drilling deals that about somewhere between 25% and 50% of the EBITDA we'll be paying down debt every year.
Research Division</strong> And is that on a net cash basis? I mean you're buying a lot of this stuff.
Yes but there's going to be a lot of EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Well I understand.
But on a net basis are you...
On a net basis there's still a lot of EBITDA.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you have to sell these ultimately to sell the entire PDP to pay the debt down or it's just a cash flow repayment? The cash flow will repay the debt and there's -- that's the way it's going to work.
Actually debt will be going down over this time.
Research Division</strong> Including the PDP purchases? Yes sir.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Hoffman with -- a personal investor.
Just wondering whether there's any more discussions -- some time ago there was a discussion about a going private transaction.
Is there any more discussion on that? And obviously you've talked a lot about KKR and a lot of money there.
Have there been any discussions with them with regards to something to that effect? I'm going to say no but I think about it every day.
I'd much rather be private than public.
But as of now there is no discussions going on about being private.
It would just -- it would be a lot easier.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on -- just a comment on the kind of work -- the creation of PDPs and not to beat a bit of a dead horse though.
But I mean it seems like from the 25% of the well that you will own from the very beginning that is basically just a normal course value creation if the Eagle Ford has the economics you think it does or better.
But you would be buying -- just to confirm you would be buying at full price fair market value any of the additional PDPs of the 75% remainder.
Is that correct? Yes.
But probably the way it's set up is it's after the first year decline.
So a 500 000-barrel well that produces 100 000 barrels in the first year we'd be buying the 400 000 on a slightly different decline rate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you would pay full price for 400 000 barrels.
And instead of having a 70% decline on that you would be moderating your decline rate because you'd only have a -- you'd have a much lower decline? Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the incremental cash would just be -- assuming the commodity price stay and the cost structure stays at what you expect at the time of the acquisition the PDP would just be the present value of whatever that IRR is? Exactly.
Just to give a little more color Brian.
On these shales and particularly in the oil is we've done some rough estimates and the decline in the second year is about half of what the decline is in the first year.
And whether it's gas or oil these things have ultra-long lives.
And so basically we'd be buying assets that we already operate.
So from a G&amp;A standpoint from everything else it's very efficient.
From a people standpoint it was way more efficient for us to buy the Haynesville assets than the Eagle Ford assets.
But we're looking for a new area and so we're going to be putting the teams -- the team's already together.
But going forward as we make those acquisitions on those 16 partnerships they're going to be very efficient for EXCO from an acquisition standpoint.
Just one more tidbit of color I'll add.
In the first year or so we make roughly 20% of the EUR production-wise.
So you have roughly 80% left over the remainder of life of the well.
Your next question comes from the line of William Adams with FAMCO.
Inc.</strong> Can you give us what your thoughts are on how much leverage you're targeting to over time let's say debt-to-EBITDA? Well my idea is getting to 2:1.
We're obviously going to be slightly higher than that but I think we'll be -- by middle of next year I think we'll be in the 3:1 range and I would love to get to 2:1.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then is -- what's been the response on -- from the rating agencies on these deals? I think okay good.
What do you -- Mark you were on the...
Yes.
I mean relatively neutral.
I mean they're doing their work on -- we're working on this term loan.
So they're doing a little bit of work on that.
We've just given them all the models.
But generally they've been fine.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of David Neuhauser with Livermore Partners.
Yes.
Most of my questions are answered.
But where are you as far as like this total recalibration of EXCO? It seems like -- obviously since we've talked in the last 1.5 year or so you've now accomplished a lot and have a lot of these joint venture deals.
Is this about it at least for the next say 12 months? Are we just going to kind of wait and let things simmer? No.
We're working on deals as -- we're working on more deals as we speak.
All right.
But is that -- any type of cause for a concern just given like you said leverage or -- what are your thoughts there? We look at each deal.
I'd say if we were to do a deal next week we -- A we wouldn't just because we want to get the TGGT behind us.
We want to get a little more knowledge out in the Eagle Ford before we close another deal there.
But West Texas additional Haynesville or additional Marcellus we're working on as we speak.
And again we'll finance it right.
I'd say if we did a deal quickly it would have to entail bonds or equity and we have those privately in our hip pocket.
All right.
And at this point too are you looking at more oil assets the conventional side or liquids or what are your thoughts? Where are you seeing the most activities and what looks the most compelling right now? Well I would say we're very focused in certain areas.
We see a lot of deals.
I would say there's still $30 billion to $40 billion of deals out there.
90% of them we're not interested in.
If they fit in our target areas we're going to look at them evaluate them properly and decide if we have the financing available to do them including potential joint ventures.
KKR is a great partner and brought a lot to the table as far as the Eagle Ford but we have been approached by 15 20 people if we found an acquisition to partner up.
We're hoping not to but that money is totally available.
No further questions in queue.
I'll turn the call back over to our presenters.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
I hope we were able to answer everything.
I think -- what I'm hoping is we will get all the data cleaned up the company's 22 wells that we're working on completing get everything reshuffled.
And sometime in October we're going to target having an analyst day here which would give you a little more clarity and hopefully a lot of detail around a lot of the vagueness that -- and I hope we weren't totally vague.
But the joint venture is -- with KKR is significant.
It's something that we've been working on with them for a long time.
I think by October we'll have a lot better idea on production.
We may have something on -- something that's going on in West Texas by then.
And so we'll invite everybody that wants to come and we'll give you everything we have at that time.
With that I appreciate everybody being on and I hope we did a decent job on this.
The quarter was fine.
But I would say starting in the third quarter and the fourth quarter you should see some significant increases in both production and cash flow and EBITDA.
Thanks again.
Meeting adjourned.
Today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rob and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] Mr.
Mark Mulhern Executive Vice President and CFO you may begin your conference.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
With me today in Dallas is Doug Miller our Chairman and CEO; Hal Hickey our President Chief Operating Officer will be doing most of the talking and answering the questions.
There's another slew of people here that support the -- this process in the conference room in Dallas with us today.
I'd like to just start for 2 minutes to give you and call attention to our earnings slides that were posted on our Investor Relations website so those should have gotten posted last evening.
On Page 22 and 23 is our forward-looking statement information.
We will be making forward-looking statements on this call.
You should consider that language on Page 22 and 23 those earnings slides when you consider that information.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Doug and let him start with the introduction and make his comments.
Okay.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for joining us on our third quarter conference call.
Hal and Mark will be talking about operations and financials here.
Let me start with -- on Slide 3.
We did have adjusted EBITDA of $108 million which was growth.
Not as much as we had before.
Our guide -- we did guide slightly higher with the close of the Chesapeake transaction.
We have had some issues with that.
We'll get into it.
I think everything's starting to smooth out.
But operationally I'd say our guys -- we now have taken over.
We've completed and got on production some of the transition wells that we inherited maybe 20 or 22 of them.
We have started our 4-rig program and the joint venture with KKR and it seems to be going smoothly.
So we'll get into that in a minute.
Let me just talk about the year and the quarter.
We did do -- we did close the $700 million deal on the Eagle Ford with Chesapeake which included about $400 million of PDP type assets.
And the production has been a little lumpy there.
We were expecting to take over about 5 000 barrels a day and after completions be up closer to 7 -- net to us 7 000 barrels.
The quarter did not have all that in it.
We ran into a pipeline issue.
These things make a little bit of gas and it has periodic shut-ins and shutting-in a well that's making 500 barrels a day and 100 Mcf means that we have -- we're looking for the 500 barrels.
So that pipeline issue which was supposedly going to be done October 1 was not done when we took over the properties.
We have had weekly meetings with the pipeline company.
We are helping them.
They're working on it.
All the right of ways have been brought.
The construction is underway.
And it's anticipated to be complete in the middle of December so -- or early.
And so in the middle of all that we had 14 inches of rain over the weekend which slowed it down a little more.
But what I'm saying is we're going to have a little bit of lumpiness.
And I think we're going to lift the fog completely by the end of the year.
We're going to have an Analyst Day December 10.
We've been talking about this for a little while but it's on the schedule.
It's in here.
And hopefully by then there's a lot of questions that you guys have on production and Hal will get into it including our Wolfcamp property out in West Texas.
By then we should have some good results and be able to do some monitoring.
The other asset we bought and we were quite surprised when BG did not we bought roughly $300 million worth the 70% PDP of Haynesville -- 70% operating production.
We expected BG to take their half-interest which they have the right to.
At the last minute they didn't take it which didn't harm us actually.
We thought it was actually to our benefit that they didn't take it.
Coupled with that we have 11 undrilled sections there.
Hal will get in to that.
We plan on begin drilling that.
Mike's in charge at getting 3 rigs for December 1 and I think you got 2 of them already is that right? Yes? Okay.
We have some transition challenges.
Again we bought $1 billion worth of properties from Chesapeake which is a pretty good challenge to start with.
And so we had a lot of land issues environmental issues.
And we're still having the conversion over from the accounting and the land and -- but -- and it's going.
I'd say it's moving forward.
Marketing is also an issue.
There's no marketing -- the crude oil and working with our people again we have weekly meetings.
And it becomes kind of a challenge there.
And so I mean I think we're averaging 110 loads of oil a day and so we're kind of handling that.
And so that's all working its way through.
Again I think both of those will get settled by the end of the year.
And we'll keep everybody posted on that.
So a little bit disappointing on the EBITDA but there are some reasons which we did not anticipate and that's the bumpiness.
Yesterday our net oil production was running at 7 000 barrels a day and I think for the quarter we averaged right at 5 000 barrels.
So -- now that doesn't mean it's going to be 7 000 barrels tomorrow because there's still some lumpiness in that.
We did sell or we announced the signing of purchase agreement with TGGT.
It took us a couple years longer than anticipated.
We did have to have BG sign off on it and it changed quite a bit -- quite a few times during this.
We did sell it to Azure.
We worked with them quite well.
They're a local outfit that we know very well.
They have all their financing in place and their equity in place.
And because we do not have to get a hard stock [ph] we were kind of anticipating this maybe in December.
But I think now we have 30 people here working on it there's a possibility of a mid to late November closing isn't that right Mark? Right.
Yes.
Again our guys have been doing a spectacular job in the Haynesville.
From an operating -- from a drilling cost we continue to bring that down.
It's almost shocking where we are compared to the other operators.
We do participate with 3 or 4 other operators in the neighborhood.
And our guys are outperforming them in days drilling costs everything else.
So we're making some good rates of return in our core area even at current gas prices.
Very very few areas where we are drilling can we make a decent rate of return in gas and the core area in the Haynesville is one of them.
We have had very little to no oil.
This -- we had 0 2 months ago.
We're now at 7 000 barrels a day.
It's easy to grow pretty fast when you start from 0.
And we're showing you that.
And I would say with the KKR deal I kind of expect if we can take what our A-Team has been doing and they're on the job right now from a cost standpoint to the Eagle Ford the Eagle Ford area and the KKR deal are going to be spectacular events.
We've had some -- the first few wells.
And I told our board that early does not always make perfect.
But our first 3 or 4 wells that we've completed in the joint venture were 700 to 900 barrels a day.
And so looks good early but we have 300 more to go.
I think Mike and Harold and the whole team has transitioned down there.
They've had to hire some people.
We have construction going on.
We're now looking at a potential oil pipeline gathering system that we have 10 people in bidding on.
So we're trying to make it easier instead of tougher and those guys are working on that.
And again we'll have some answers by the end of the year.
KKR I think is a fairly complex deal.
We try to explain it.
We've actually put calls in to most of the analysts that had questions.
And if anybody has any questions feel free to call and we'll continue to answer them.
I think the one thing most people are missing and I'll have it on the next slide is that it seems like they have a high rate of return.
They're capped on the return at 1.2x their drilling costs so we have and Harold and his boys have an incentive to cut the capital costs.
I think the other thing that people are missing is the cash flow that they get out of their 75% is a credit towards the purchase price.
So when you put all that in there we have the ability to be buying these assets.
Now the major uplift in value to EXCO and our shareholders begins in month 15.
So we have -- these are set up in quarterly partnerships.
The first one we acquire 15 months after we started drilling.
And so our EBITDA our significant EBITDA growth starts in month 15 from the first one and we'll have 16 straight quarters of fairly significant EBITDA growth.
And so 14 we're not going to have much from it other than the 25%.
But starting in 15 16 17 and 18 we're going to have significant EBITDA growth.
And maybe $100 million plus a year.
And so again we'll have that identified and focused on at the December call.
Managing capital spending.
We started this a couple of years ago.
We've transitioned from 22 rigs in the Haynesville to 3 rigs.
Hal will get into that.
We kind of expect here at year end and beginning of '14 to start increasing that slowly.
But one of my challenges and Mark's challenges is we're trying to increase production.
We're trying to increase EBITDA and at the same time we're trying to decrease debt.
So put -- sometimes you can do 2 out of 3 of those but doing 3 out of 3 of those is fairly complex and it's something we're working on.
Efficient low cost operator.
I think we've talked about that.
I would say in the Haynesville there's probably 10 operators or 5 major operators there.
We're in discussions with all of them.
And I would say our guys have outperformed and beaten all of them significantly.
KKR on Slide 5.
It looks -- the key points.
The short-term benefit is we can put a 300 well $7.2 million per well development program on a company that probably is not sized to do that.
But with this joint venture that by the way we've been working on a couple of years we're able to do a $700 million acquisition detail it focus on 40 000 or 50 000 acres and we've started on at a 300-well drilling program.
And this allows us to accelerate that and starting in a year you're going to start seeing the real benefit to EXCO which is significant EBITDA growth.
Again I think a lot of people didn't understand the KKR deal.
They're capped on their rate of return.
Now it seems high because its 1.2x their invested capital.
And they get it back in 12 months.
So it does seem high.
But keep in mind they get 75% of the cash flow the first year.
That 75% of the cash flow gets credited towards our acquisition.
So what it enables us to do hopefully if we do this right we'll actually be buying properties starting in month 15 for the next 5 years at a discount to PV-10.
So now we do have -- we have some accounting issues we're going to have to deal with that I just learned about yesterday.
But we call that a quality problem.
With that we actually are looking at additional deals with KKR in some additional fields.
Now we've got -- have to really believe that we're not going to do this everywhere.
I would say we really have to believe that we have the assets nailed.
It's a development program.
It is significant.
And our guys have to really believe that we can get in there and cut costs because that's significant.
With that I'm going to turn it over to Hal.
Thanks Doug and good morning.
At EXCO thanks to our employees and contractors across the company we've had another strong operational quarter.
As Doug was discussing I want to build on we continued to execute our company strategy as we've effectively run our base business closed acquisitions in both core and new shale areas announced the sale of our midstream business and planned for future growth through our drilling partnership with KKR.
On Slide 7 you could see an overview of our operations.
On the right-hand side of the slide you can see our key areas located in Texas Louisiana Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
We had 6 operated drilling rigs across the portfolio at the end of the third quarter but we could have 15 or more rigs working for us in '14.
In the Haynesville/Bossier area we acquired 11 new sections with development drilling locations from Chesapeake and our core DeSoto Parish Louisiana area.
We plan to begin drilling this new acreage late this year or early next year and we plan to continue our manufacturing-type of development both on this new acreage and on our legacy Haynesville acreage likely with a 6 rig drilling fleet in DeSoto Parish where we currently have some 40 fully developed units.
Now with the acquisition we have 40 more units that we can develop in this core area that we designate as the heart of the Haynesville play.
We also plan to have a rig to operate in the Shelby area of East Texas next year and pending results we could possibly add more drilling in the Haynesville region.
Finally regarding our Haynesville efforts I should note that we continue to see our average cost per Haynesville drilling and completion going down.
Our average cost for the quarter came in at $7.5 million per well and we've actually seen some recent oil [ph] cost even lower than that average.
Again compliments are due our team as we become more efficient with drilling.
We've continued to optimize in our completion designs and we work with our service providers to manage costs.
In our newly acquired Eagle Ford area of South Texas we've transitioned operations from Chesapeake to EXCO.
And we're transferring our experience and learnings from the Haynesville in implementing the manufacturing top development program down in the Eagle Ford with 4 or 5 rigs.
We have 4 rigs drilling on our acreage today.
We believe we can generate some additional efficiency and drilling completion by moving to this manufacturing mode where we simultaneously develop multiple wells in a unit.
This development program will be done in conjunction with our working interest partners in KKR which will fund 75% of our acquired interest for drilling and completion costs through the drilling partnership.
And together we anticipate drilling approximately 300 locations over the next several years in the core area of this acquisition.
In Appalachia we're focused on evaluating and optimizing our Marcellus shale acreage.
Our land team in particular is actively looking at trade opportunities to build continuous acreage positions.
We've recently drilled and completed an appraisal well in Appalachia in Lycoming County Pennsylvania where we've been operating and we're very encouraged about the results in this specific area.
And in all of our Marcellus acreage we have about 2/3 of it held by production.
Our technical staff that's working with land is evaluating the remaining acreage to determine what we will be doing to either renew hold by drilling or release acreage either by trade sales or simply letting certain leases expire.
We acquired some acreage late last year in the Permian area just south of our Sugg Ranch position in Irion County and we partnered with an experienced Permian player to evaluate this roughly 20 000 contiguous acreage position.
We're currently drilling completing and flowing back some wells here in the Wolfcamp shale and we've seen some encouraging preliminary results.
But we'll have a much better understanding and we'll elaborate on this opportunity at our December Analyst Day.
Then in East Texas/North Louisiana and Permian conventional assets we've put them in a partnership with EXCO and Harbinger Group.
We currently have 1 rig drilling in this acreage particularly at Sugg Ranch in Irion County and we're seeing some additional conventional asset acquisitions to acquire and grow this business.
Finally on this slide I want to reiterate that we have in conjunction with BG signed a purchase and sale agreement to sell our TGGT Midstream business.
this transaction is likely to close in the next couple of weeks.
Now moving over to Slide 8.
We've provided an overview of our Eagle Ford acquisition assets and plans.
The deal closed in July and the transaction contains acreage across 4 counties in South Texas.
But our core development area is particularly in Zavala County.
This is where we've entered the drilling partnership with KKR and we're going to develop to 300 or so locations that are noted earlier over the next few years.
We acquired about 55 000 net acres and about 21 000 of those are in the core development area.
The other acreage besides the 21 000 core associated with currently producing PDP wells and are held by production.
But we have farm out option on nearly 150 000 additional net acres.
As I previously noted we plan to operate up to 5 rigs in the area with the focus of course being on the 21 000 acre core area.
Net sales at the end of the third quarter totaled about 7 600 BOE per day.
This included about 6 800 or so barrels of oil.
Now we've typically produce about 85% oil and about 15% natural gas.
Our early results in the core area are exciting.
We've seen our piece as high as more 900 barrels of oil a day and we've averaged about 600 barrels of oil per day in the core.
These wells are on average about 6 500 feet total vertical depth and has lateral lengths of about 7 100 feet.
We're completing these wells to 20 or more frac stages but our longest lateral drill to date is about 9 700 feet.
Our activity in the core area is of course being carried out in conjunction with both KKR and our other significant work interest partners CNOOC which typically holds about a 30% or so of nonoperating working interest in our assets.
Now the challenge we've encountered in the area is the ability to move the natural gas production associated with the oil and we're working closely with our midstream service providers to ease this gas restriction.
We anticipate the problem will be resolved as we have the new take away line that Doug talked about earlier.
It's going to be in service in December or sooner and we have some additional compression that should be installed by February.
Moving over to Slide 9.
We have an overview of our Haynesville area and our acquisition from Chesapeake that closed in mid July.
This acquisition acreage depicted in red is immediately south and of course contiguous with our core Holly-Haynesville acreage in DeSoto Parish.
We acquired incremental working interest of about 22% on 5 600 net acres from Chesapeake and about 170 wells that EXCO already operated.
And we acquired a 62% working interest on about 4 000 net acres in these 11 sections that were formerly operated by Chesapeake and that we've planned to develop.
Now on these 11 sections we've added about 55 total drilling locations and they're all held by production as Chesapeake had drilled a unit well there.
We also acquired additional working interest in 75 future EXCO operated drill locations and at quarter's end our net production from the overall Haynesville is about 315 million cubic feet a day.
With that I'll now turn the discussion over to our CFO Mark Mulhern who will take us through details regarding our transactions and performance and guidance.
Thank you Hal.
I'm going to start on Slide 11 where we have summarized the results for the quarter.
Our comparisons to the prior year are challenging because of the conventional assets that were contributed to the Harbinger partnership in February and the Chesapeake acquisitions that closed in July.
Our production group from the second quarter due to primarily to our new assets in the Eagle Ford and the Haynesville.
But we're always fighting decline curves and separating the conventional assets which had flatter decline curves into the partnership has exacerbated these comparisons.
Our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $108 million which was 20% higher than our Q2 but was approximately $10 million below our adjusted EBITDA guidance for the quarter.
So I'm going to turn to Slide 12 where we have summarized the primary reasons for the EBITDA being below guidance.
The first one is prices in the Marcellus.
So in the Marcellus area where we operate there's a glut of production and lower demand that resulted in lower-than-expected prices and some shut-in activity which impacted volumes as well.
Secondly the timing of wells in the Haynesville.
So we had in our original guidance forecast and expectation that we may have some wells turned to sales earlier than they actually did in Haynesville.
So in my mind this is a timing issue that just impacted the quarter.
And then the third item is we were a little optimistic in how quickly we would assimilate our Eagle Ford assets in particular.
And as has been mentioned we experienced some unanticipated challenges and take away gas which resulted in shut-ins and uneven oil production for the quarter here.
So as Hal said we believe this would be fully resolved going into 2014.
We continue to focus on cost reductions and I think we've done an excellent job in the Haynesville.
And again our core thesis is that we're able to replicate the manufacturing mode and the efficiencies we've been able to realize in the Haynesville and to the Eagle Ford assets that we've acquired.
If you turn to Slide 13 you'll know this was a lengthy process but we are quite pleased to have executed this agreement with Azure Midstream to sell our TGGT Midstream assets.
We expect to net approximately $230 million when the deal closes sometime in November which we will expect to use to pay down the debt on the asset sale tranche that we incurred to finance the acquisitions from Chesapeake.
Completion of this asset sale and the proceeds that we received from KKR and the Eagle Ford effectively allowed EXCO to make $1 billion of acquisitions without having to issue equity.
So this was an important piece of that puzzle.
So we will retain a minority equity interest in the new company and are very comfortable with Azure's strong operating capabilities.
We did record an accounting impairment related to the sale in this quarter.
So that's behind us going into the closing.
But overall this sale helps reposition EXCO as a more pure play E&amp;P company and helps simplify our corporate structure and reduce costs over the long term.
So then I'm going to turn to Slide 14 which summarizes our liquidity position at September 30.
Obviously the changes from June 30 are significant because this reflects the billion dollars of acquisition that were financed at closing primarily with debt.
Again we would expect the proceeds from TGGT to be applied against the asset sale tranche and the overall debt levels to be reduced by those proceeds.
Our liquidity is adequate and we continue to have excellent support from our bank group.
If you turn to Slide 15 it's the outline of our guidance.
And historically we provide a lot of detail on our guidance.
No different here on Slide 15.
We've updated our guidance for current prices and for our current expectations.
We are expecting about a 12% increase in adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter to a level of midpoint of $121 million that we've shown here on this slide which puts us at a full year midpoint of about $415 million.
So say a range of $410 million to $420 million which is obviously lower than our last update.
We've come out with a 450 number surely after BG made their election.
And again I would say mainly due to less optimism about how quickly we're able to integrate and get the Eagle Ford assets in particular running the way we expect them to and contributing to EBITDA.
And then I would say the second item is the unanticipated challenges that we've had in the Marcellus impact what we say about our guidance going into the fourth quarter.
I think it's important for you to review Pages 22 and 23 of our earnings press release which provide the pro forma results for the quarter and the 9 month period as if had have owned the Chesapeake assets for the entire period.
So if you consider the prospects of the company going forward for EBITDA growth you could -- I believe those schedules are instructive to how we should think about that.
So just point that out for your information.
Which slide number? They are Slide 22 and 23 at our earnings press release.
They're not slides in this deck.
They're in the press release that we issued for earnings on Page 22 and 23.
They're the required pro forma supplemental information with our financial statements.
So I think those are important schedules for you to pay attention to when you're looking forward for the EBITDA of the company.
So on Slide 16 before we conclude and start to take questions here let me just say we are executing the strategy that we clearly laid out at the beginning of the year.
So we've closed on billion dollars of acquisitions.
We entered into this drilling partnership with KKR to help us exploit our Eagle Ford properties.
And we believe we have repositioned the company and established a clear growth pipeline of quarterly accretive acquisitions beginning in the first quarter of 2015 as Doug outlined.
So finally we will host an analyst meeting in Dallas on December 10.
We will get those invitations out to you early next week.
But please join us as we outline in greater detail our plans for 2014.
And then just before I turn it over for -- to Doug for questions Doug mentioned that we have some additional explanatory slides on the KKR partnership and they are on pages 19 through 21 in the appendix of the earnings slides that I'm referring to.
So if you look on our website Pages 19 through 21 we've given you 3 slides on very detailed explanation of how we think the KKR agreement works and what we anticipate both on a single well basis and on a full program of 300 wells drilled over the next 3 to 4 years.
So hopefully that will help you in evaluating that partnership.
But as Doug said again we are happy and prepared to walk you through that and explain it.
The IR team has reached out to all of the south side analysts who cover the company and try to walk them through the slides because again we know this is not run-of-the-mill stuff.
So we're prepared to absolutely explain in detail what we expect from that partnership.
So with that I'm going to turn it back to Doug and we'll start on the Q&amp;A.
Okay.
One of the things that Hal had mentioned that -- our production in the Haynesville is $315 million a day net.
But keep in mind we operate between our operated properties and our non-operated properties over there over $1 billion a day.
And we're managing that entire process from a marketing standpoint et cetera.
So it is a huge asset.
BG owns 50% of what we own.
So they have roughly $300 million $315 million a day.
And then we have other partners unit by unit which were Chesapeake at one time.
We bought them out of most of those.
But there are other partners in that.
So it is a significant asset with a lot of wells drilled.
We've drilled 400 and help me 20-ish? 420 wells over there over the last 4 years.
So that team has done a spectacular job.
We're hoping that the Eagle Ford becomes another core area where we did buy jointly with KKR 500 square miles of seismic.
We just got it in 2 weeks ago.
Our people are reviewing that right now.
And we think there may be some additional opportunities in and around that core area.
So now we haven't put anything in the data for that but we are probably going to be drilling a couple of wells just outside the core area.
And again we should -- we'll have that detail because I think we're drilling on about 3 of them is that right Mike? We have 4 operating in the quarter.
No I know but outside the core area I think we've agreed to drill 3.
Yes correct.
Yes.
And so we'll have results on those.
I think one of them is frac-ing as we speak and the other 2 are drilling and completing here over the next 2 to 3 weeks.
So again December 10 that will kind of tell us a lot.
And I think we'll have a lot of good data to share with you.
With that I'm going to open it up to questions.
And let her rip.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of comments you made in your remarks I want to follow-up on.
The first was just that the notion that growing production EBITDA and reducing debt is something that's tough.
We certainly see that across many companies in the sector.
But I wanted to just get a sense of where your prioritizations do lie on the margin and how you think about the balance between the acquisition spending as part of the KKR deal versus drilling and accelerating in places like the Haynesville and the Marcellus? I would say our #1 priority right now is reducing debt.
And I think if you look at the overall scheme if we have roughly a $500 million EBITDA for next year the KKR joint venture is allowing us to reduce our capital.
And if we were to reduce our capital down to $200 million to $300 million because KKR's putting -- or a KKR-like person is putting up 3 quarters of the CapEx that would allow us to reduce debt.
I think we're looking at that right now.
But as of right now our capital spend is close to our EBITDA for next year.
But we're looking into that.
And I'd say my first priority and for sure Mark's and he keeps beating me over the head is reduction of debt.
But we're also running a public company which we think increasing production and increasing EBITDA are very important.
We -- we work for our board and us in the board we have 24 000 shareholders out there.
Many of them communicate with us and many of them are not very happy right now.
And so going from 22 rigs to 3 rigs has been a challenge.
With these decline curves production goes down faster than you think.
Because we're talking about 80% 90% first year decline curves in the Haynesville.
So the only way you're going to increase production there is to keep increasing rigs.
So going from 22 to 3 was a significant challenge.
But I think again to complete your question I'd say first priority is reducing debt.
And then second and third and I think there's a possibility we can accomplish all with this KKR type joint venture is EBITDA growth and production growth.
So Bryan the only thing that I would add is -- I agree with Doug's priorities and I do believe that we will have -- be in a position to chip away a bit at the debt level.
But remember I think what's going to happen here we're hoping it happens here is that we actually grow the EBITDA of the company and the leverage metrics improve over time.
So just in terms of being realistic we're not going to have huge reductions in the overall debt balance of the company.
But I believe our metrics will improve as our EBITDA grows.
So that's how I think about it.
Any acquisition we make going forward from the KKR deal is going to be a -- PDP acquisition is 100% which fall into the first lien revolver-type category and there is a huge institutional market out there.
And so that would be the cheapest cost of capital going forward.
So we'll be choppy.
If we're not doing a joint venture in '14 our debt level should go down.
And then on a quarter-by-quarter basis it will go up a little but it will all be PDP and then it will come down and then it will be a jog.
And again December 10 we'll better outline that because we have built-in subject to oil staying above $70 a barrel we have built-in 16 quarterly acquisitions and we'll kind of show you that over the next 5 years how that stages.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know I think you would be 2015 where you'd really see more of the ramp-up in the PDP acquisition.
And so I guess that is probably sounds based on your comments it's fair to say that capital competes versus drilling capital with your goal of ultimately reducing debt.
And so the notion of a real ramp-up in places like the Haynesville is probably much less likely because you'd rather have this competition for acquisition capital in beginning of '15? That's true.
But nothing says we can't do a drilling joint venture depending on how many good asset -- good locations we have.
We have quite a few good locations.
We're looking at a few transactions with some smaller operators where we might get 50 or 100 more locations.
I think the idea there would be maybe it would be time to put a drilling joint venture there.
Because I think between engineering and our drilling people we can -- it's real -- pretty easy for Harold's group to tell me what the costs are going to be for the next 12 months.
We're getting AFEs in from other companies larger companies.
And we're having discussions.
I hate signing a $10.5 million AFE in an offset section which is an 8% rate of return when we can do it for $7.5 million $8 million which is the 32% rate of return.
So that's one of the main challenges we have right now.
Should we participate with other operators in the neighborhood? So I'm not going to mention any names but we have recently yelled at them.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And lastly you made a passing reference to some accounting issues that came up with I think it was with regards to the KKR side of things.
Can you add any color to that.
I'll let Mark talk to that.
Yes Brian.
We don't know exactly where we're landing here in this pipe premature to talk much about it.
But we've got -- there are system complexity around accounting for the KKR deal.
There is a premise that we will be effectively buying -- when you take the cash that they earn in the first year and gets credited against the buyout price there's a question about what you do with the difference between fair value and what your acquisition cost is.
But we'll get to that and I don't believe that's going to be an issue until 2015.
That would be a book and they're talking about might be talking about where we might have to show profits but mostly book value.
And keep in mind even if it was attacked then it's not cause we'd be buying them at x and that would be our tax basis.
We have in excess of $1.5 billion usable NOL here.
So from a cash tax standpoint we're a long way away from paying it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But there's a potential for the NOLs to be in flux here as a result of the...
Yes we owe Pierre starting in '15 '16 '17 if our EBITDA goes up that's going to create quite a few profits.
And cause it's acquisition it won't be drilling.
So we won't have intangibles a significant amount of intangibles starting in '15 '16.
So it'd be going right to the bottom line.
And we're prepared for that with the $1.5 billion of NOLs.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> You obviously made reference to continuing to look at acquisitions potentially other deals.
But KKR or KKR-like partner.
You also I think mentioned the potential partner for your existing Haynesville is kind of what it sounded like in the press release.
Could you maybe just provide some more color on what you guys are thinking about in terms of structures? Are we looking at very similar structures to the Eagle Ford deal with KKR? Because clearly incremental acquisitions would seem to add potentially some more capital costs of you guys and obviously you're focused on reducing debt.
I just wanted to see kind of how that's all sort of interplaying here? I would say the -- we have been approached by multiple people.
And they've come in here and as they understand the drilling partnerships are interested.
KKR would be our first choice because they have a team that our guys get along with that include controlling engineers operating people geologists geophysicists.
So it has been -- and we have been on 5 or 6 projects.
So you know this is the first one that we're prepared to nail down.
I would say that that one was fairly complex because there's a land part of it.
Anything that we do in the Haynesville probably our anticipation is -- would only be a drilling partnership without the land.
So the complexity of it would be significantly less.
And may be the rate of return would be even less just because: a it's a gas deal with an upward sloping curve; and b it's something that we really got our arms around a lot more.
And that's something that we're in discussions with.
Again 5 or 10 people have lined up and want to do that transaction.
They've been in we've had discussions with them.
KKR obviously signed up and they will be the first -- they get first shot.
And we have a couple of people that would like to participate with KKR and we've run it by KKR.
So that's a possibility.
From an acquisition standpoint you just won't believe how much money is out there whether it is -- industry partners have approached us.
Keep in mind we were approached right after our closing for somebody to buy 50% interest in both of those acquisitions and pay us the premium which we chose not to do.
But we have had discussions and we have recently had people from around the world in here wanting to do significant joint ventures and acquisitions.
So from a capital standpoint and I think what you're driving at is if there's other acquisitions out there which there are do we have the capital to be able to play in those type of acquisitions? The answer is right now no.
But with some of the money that's coming at us I think there's a possibility if we found the right deal in the right areas where we would be comfortable operating there is the availability of structure in some deals with -- and I'm not very good at speaking foreign languages but there's been a lot of foreigners in here both from China Japan.
Now we've got somebody coming in from India.
But South America's been in here.
There's a lot of people that are trying to get in the U.S.
shale plays.
And we're not going to look at every deal.
We've turned down 20 of them in the last month.
But I think what you're going to see is there's going to be here over the next 12 months quite a few opportunities in property sets that are not out loud on the market.
There's a lot of private equity guys that have backed smaller operators who would typically go out and buy 100 000 acres drill 3 wells and then flip them.
And EXCO and Chesapeake and Encana were lined up to buy them But now that those 3 guys are not buying we're seeing those things coming back to market.
So a lot of small deals.
We would look at the smaller deals and we've done a study in the Wolfcamp in Midwest Texas.
If we found something in the core of the Eagle Ford we would look I think we're getting our arms around the science there.
The Marcellus would be a challenge because I think our guys were forecasting a significant discount to Henry Hub up there for a while.
So making the math work up in the Marcellus is going to be a challenge for a while.
Thus you see us changing our rig schedule there.
And so it would have to be the perfect deal and we would have to have the ability not to drill for a while.
But we're seeing some deals and there are some fairly significant deals out there.
But who we team up with and how we structure the deal and I think Leo what you're getting at is we can't put up $500 million and the answer is true.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great answer there Doug.
And I guess just as a re-follow-up to that are you considering I mean it sounded like you turned down some deals potentially is it possible you would take on a partner on existing assets already to kind of help better manage sort of your debt load here? Is that a potential possibility? I don't think we're interested in the Haynesville.
I've taken on anybody.
We've got it -- we've got our arms around it.
The Eagle Ford we have a partner and we don't need one.
In West Texas depending on the deal I think we're happy where we are right now.
Depending on the results of these next 5 or 6 wells in the Wolfcamp we might entertain doing something there.
I'd say in the Marcellus if there was a dealer or 2 up there with what we kind of forecast over the next 2 to 3 years if the right joint venture or partner came along we'll be open to that.
Now keep in mind BG owns half.
Whether we would sell it take on a partner or just slow down I mean we're operating at $275 million a day up there today between the shallow and the Marcellus and our net is only $65 million a day.
It's an asset that we should know better.
We don't.
We know where some of the core areas are and we think we have identified a couple of them.
We don't own enough acreage in there to put together a large joint venture.
So I'd say the one area where we would anticipate the possibility of a partner is in the Marcellus.
Is that fair? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Good answer.
I guess just jumping over to your Haynesville joint plan.
Obviously you guys are ramping up rigs into the end of the year here.
You mentioned a Shelby rig sometime in 2014.
Just trying to get a sense of when that might show up? I mean you think you guys are on an average kind of 7 rigs for the year? Is it closer to 6? Just trying to get a sense on...
We're trying to wiggle an average 7 rigs for the full year Leo.
And depending on what the results are we'll manage up or down.
But right now our plan is that we've got 7 rigs 6 in DeSoto in the core area 3 on our legacy acreage 3 on the newly acquired from Chesapeake and yes we do have a full rig year schedule down in the Shelby Area where we are encouraged about the recent data and results.
I think we have participated in a few wells down there where we're happy and excited about some new data.
I've never seen Marcia smile quite so much.
And now it's a little deeper and it costs a little more money so I would say if we're able to do what we think we can it wouldn't surprise me that we wouldn't increase the rigs down there from 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 something like that.
There are some opportunities down there.
Some other operators have some acreage for sale.
And I think Marcia's group has kind of identified a core area down there.
Again it's deeper.
We would have to lean on Harold.
Those wells were costing us north to $10 million last time we drilled down there because of the extra 2 000 or 3 000 feet.
We would have to be assured that those would -- he could get those things down under $10 million.
So he told us he could but he also told us Texas Tech would win last week.
So we'll see what happens.
Doug we've also been able to restructure a lot of the units down there so we can drill a lot longer laterals.
That will probably be the...
Right.
I think in Texas because the unionization there versus the 640 squares a longer lateral with additional cost could be very fruitful.
And I would say one rig for sure potentially more.
Your next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> Kind of need to go through the review about the markets.
When you think about 2014 how 6 rigs in the -- 7 rigs in the Haynesville what number of pads kind of what your spacing assumption kind of number of wells as you kind of start; I think about it as mowing the lawn across your acreage and develop each of the units? In the legacy acreage we're traditionally drilling on 80s.
We may go from 8 wells per section to 7.
And the acquisition acreage to Chesapeake looks more likely we'll drill an additional 5 oil wells besides the unit well that exists there now.
That would be a 6.
So that would be a total of 6 in that section so you're looking at like 110 or so.
And down in the Shelby Area it may be even more broadly spaced than that.
LLC</strong> And the long laterals? How long a lateral are you talking about down in Shelby? In excess of 7 000 feet.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the same math for the 5 Eagle Ford rigs? Just kind of thinking about ...
Our spacing down in the Eagle Ford is...
500 feet apart spacing right now.
LLC</strong> 500 feet apart? Yes.
We've got some test to see if that's optimal so standby for news on that one.
But right now its traditionally been drilled on 500.
LLC</strong> And lateral lengths? Lateral lengths like I said earlier average about 7 100 feet.
But we have gone as far as 9 700-foot laterals.
Even our drilling since we've taken over.
But average is about 7 100 feet.
LLC</strong> Helpful.
And then kind of thinking about I think you hit the acquisition side other than the KKR acquisitions that are rolling anything else just as Eagle Ford and Haynesville are they the 2 areas that you think will be the most active? Are there any other regions that you're venturing into? Oklahoma or anything like that? Not Oklahoma.
But we're passing those on to other guys.
I would say pending the results out there in the Wolfcamp we're studying the whole area.
We're in Irion County.
And if they're good I -- it wouldn't surprise me that the partner we're in with right now wouldn't want to do some additional.
And there are some -- there's a lot of West Texas as you know and we've been out there before.
And we do have some relationships out there.
And so I would say that you hit the 2 the Eagle Ford and the Haynesville but I would say in the back of my mind if there's an opportunity in the Wolfcamp between the drilling partnership and some of our partners I wouldn't have any problem doing something out there.
And your next question comes from the line of Devin Geoghegan from Nexus.
2 questions if you could just help.
One is an accounting question and one is just regarding next year.
Just in terms of Slide 15 where you all breakout the quarter-by-quarter and then the annual for '13.
Can you help me understand how much of the production and then how much of the EBITDA is associated with the HGI partnership just so I can take and tie everything out? I can give you that.
Probably it's better if you call us and let me do that.
We did do a proportional consolidation for that entity and I just don't have the numbers right in front of me.
But if you call Chris our IRR guy I think he can walk you through all of that.
Okay.
And then second question is you all mentioned that next year CapEx would be plus or minus what EBITDA will be and then $500 million was mentioned.
Without tying you to the $500 million do you have a sense for what production for next year would get to that $500 million which I can assume includes the proportion of HGI? Keep in mind that $500 million came out of my big mouth...
So here's the answer to that question.
You just hold the phone until December 10.
What we're going to do the layout '14 for you in detail that slide that you see on 15 that you just referred to we will have that laid out for '14 and give you all of that the specifics about.
So you just hold the phone until then.
That would be helpful.
And I'll add that between now and December 10 we have our Board of Directors meeting.
Where we will present our plans capital program to the board.
And so we'll get their endorsement or support at that time.
So we really are a little bit preliminary in talking what our plan is very definitively for next year.
December 10.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark from Silver Rock.
Just when you were talking about the KKR economics the way they get their cap of 1.2x and then you buying below PV-10 on PDP I just wanted to understand the -- when you say you're buying below PV-10 on that well what's the -- what kind of order of magnitude below PV-10 for example like 10% 20% 30%.
I guess another way of asking what's the -- are you buying it like PV-12 or PV-15 kind of value? Well let's put it this way.
It depends on 3 major factors and we mentioned this in the last call.
It depends how much of the first year production what the production rate is.
It depends on capital costs because of the cap I mean the drilling costs.
And then it depends on what you're at the time of acquisition what the forward curve is on oil specifically.
And so all 3 of those factors and if you say -- if you use $7.2 million for capital cost and if you use what we think is these things typically produce 20% to 25% am I right Marcia in the first year? Yes.
And so I'd say we're shooting for 75%.
But depending on what Harold can do it could be as much as 50% of PV-10.
So we haven't run.
But we'll have that for you by December 10.
We'll run that.
That's a good question.
So the best way for you to see this is in the appendix of the earnings slide on Slide 19 We've given you a single well example of how we think this partnership works.
And very specifically to your question.
If you look at the -- that box when you get a minute the retained value for EXCO again on the single well example.
We've put in here as half of -- and then I'll go through all the numbers in this page but I'm just pointing you to this page for you to look at.
If you look at that $0.5 million the point 5 in the retained value for EXCO box that is what we would identify as the discount if that's what you want to call it to PV-10 and in this case PV-10 where it's saying it's $3.2 million.
So think about those numbers in terms of how you would calculate what we expect.
During that case on that slide then is it the 2.7 divided by the 3.2 ? So 84% of PV-10? Is that...
Yes.
Yes.
That example that is exactly right.
And what's the IRR though is that like a PV-15 or PV-12 or something like that? It sounded like about a PV-14 probably but I haven't done the math.
But what's the unlevered return that you're buying that for? Well so I -- that's a fair question.
And the way I -- the way this thing is structured really is not on an IRR basis.
In other words they're getting a 1.2x their drilling capital return and we kind of split access above.
Once they get to that cap you take that PV-10 number and then they effectively split the difference between the 2 partners.
So I look at it more on a multiple of capital than I do on an IRR.
I mean I guess if you were able to buy a PDP well equal to PV-12 let's say? Not PV-10 it's slightly below PV-10 value but PV-12 which looks like maybe close to this is that like a good thing relative to your cost of capital? That's what I was wondering about.
Vis-a-vis like welded IRRs that we all know about of 30% or more in these plays.
We've been doing this for 40 years.
And we look at 500 deals a year and we probably concentrate on 100 out of the 500 and we probably get 2.
But if we can buy PDP properties at PV-10.
Keep in mind we can usually finance 50% to 60% of that with 2% cost of debt.
So our equity return on capital is huge on the PDP.
The challenges lies none of these deals are pure PDP so you've got to put up capital.
And usually when you're buying land it's 100% equity but your rate of return goes down more of what I call it pollution is in them.
But pure PDP's when we're borrowing money at 2% to 3% and we're putting up 50% of the capital our IRR is high for the rate of return on our equity.
Return on equity is huge buying PDPs if you can buy them at PV-10.
I guess the -- but your bonds are yielding 8%.
And obviously your cost of equity is well north of that.
And so that's where I'm getting a blended whack if you will or cost of capital for the company with obviously 92%.
And so the other thing though related to this is when you buy PDP well are you getting -- my understanding is there is no offsetting the upside in terms of unbooked potential like normally when a resource play trades before PV-10 obviously that's really cheap because there's unbooked assets on the ground.
But on the PDP well I think that's where I'm confused.
Is there anything that's beyond the actual well that you're getting an upside? No.
We're buying -- we're just buying PDP wells.
We have a company called CODA that for years 98% of the stuff we did is buy properties from major oil companies.
And we were able to grow it 30% a year because all the majors back in the late '80s and through the '90s were selling those things.
So typically if you're buying PDP concentrated on PDP that adds to your EBITDA.
Your cost of capital is not 8% because you can use secured financing.
Our blended cost of debt today is right at 5% between the revolver and the 8.5% or whatever our debt bonds are trading at today.
So -- and we do believe that cost capital on equity is closer to 25% so you're exactly right.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregg Brody from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification.
I'm just -- was looking through your press release and you made mention in the Haynesville section that you were just considering entrants to join partnerships to develop -- to facilitate development.
I was just trying to reconcile that with the comments that you weren't looking for a partner in any place but the Marcellus.
No no no.
I think the question was would we look for a partner to make acquisitions or would we consider selling it to somebody? I would say the only of the 4 areas that we're concentrating in right now the only one would be on that type would be the Marcellus.
In the Haynesville because of so many locations that we have and the possibility of picking up more to potentially accelerate drilling we would consider a drilling partnership.
But we're not going to -- we're not looking to sell those assets.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Would you mind just one last one? The equity stake you capped in TGGT could you just give us your rationale for that -- for doing that? Yes.
Basically it's a pipeline that we spend a lot of time and a lot of effort building.
And I'd say it's use of capital.
If we have the possibility of -- it was bill out and it was really based on us and we consider that a 12% 13% rate of return type asset.
And if we can just take that capital and convert it into 40% 50% type of rate of return that was the idea.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line Jeff Robertson from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Doug as you all lay out in 2014 can you just talk -- you talked earlier about acquisition priorities but in the right scenario would you substitute acquisitions for some of the drilling that you're talking about in the Haynesville and/or the Eagle Ford? I guess in the Eagle Ford you're more limited because of the KKR joint venture? That's a good question.
I would -- it depends on the deal.
I'd say right now with a couple of the large independents that might be selling some things if we could buy them right then we would consider that.
Yes.
I mean it just depends on a deal.
I mean the answer is I kind of expect this to be a very active year.
I also expect that a lot of large players whether they're majors or large independents I expect they're working on their capital budgets as we speak.
I kind of expect that a lot of them are going to say don't drill any gas wells.
And as they do that there might be some opportunity to buy or do some joint ventures with them to develop.
And so we're just ready for any and all.
And we're in discussions with 5 or 6 people right now that are in the Haynesville that we'd like to do a transaction with.
But we'd substitute yes.
Research Division</strong> And just your preference to do a transaction of any significant size would be to go in with some sort of a partnership structure like you have with KKR and the Eagle Ford from the start and not to have to put that in subsequent to doing a deal is that correct? Yes I would say the comp -- the first KKR deal that we did had extra complexities with it which was at Land Bank.
I would say our first choice would be take -- let us on the land and take the land bank part of that formula out of it.
That deal was about a 3-inch document between us and KKR.
And if we just do the drilling partnership it's a quarter of an inch.
Mark went dizzy negotiating that deal.
And so did Marcia.
Marcia because -- I'd say drilling only with no land would be our preference.
And any deal we're looking at that's kind of what our focus is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly are you more comfortable with owning -- with EXCO owning the land in the Haynesville because you haven't -- you know a lot more about that play versus the Eagle Ford? Yes.
I mean that's our number one comfort zone.
But we've been there for 4 or 5 years.
And our guys both the operational guys have done a spectacular job and Marcia's team we've got -- she's got 21 different decline curves across that.
And I'd say a deal comes in within 5 minutes we can say if we're interested or not.
Hopefully we get there in the Eagle Ford we're just not there yet.
Research Division</strong> One last question on the Shelby trough.
Are there any Cotton Valley liquid zones that are perspective or any other zones that are perspective for liquids targets? Not in our area.
Ours is dry gas.
Now the Bossier is prospective there but that's also dry gas is it not? The liquid there is to the north of us.
Yes.
Up in Canola County I think Anadarko's drilling some Haynesville that has liquids but that's on top of a very prolific what's that field? Carthage? Yes.
And so I hear and I haven't verified this I hear they're making liquids in the Haynesville there.
But where we are in the Shelby trough I think it's mostly dry gas is it not? And your final question comes from the line of Howard Henick from Scurly Capital.
Two quick questions.
There's been some talk on the pipeline that you might have been unhappy or happy with the price received and I want you to comment on that.
And also do you plan on keeping that little equity smidge that you got in the deal? Or would that be something that you might monetize to pay off debt? I'm always unhappy when we sell something.
I would say we've been looking at this for 2 years.
I think initially we thought we were going to get more and we had the option of doing a public MLP.
We had 5 investment bankers in here.
We went through it and so we -- I have that in the back of my head the whole time.
As time went on and our 22 rigs went to 3 the EBITDA in that went down.
And so obviously the value went down.
Was -- I think at the time when we ended up signing the deal up we're happy with the price.
At least everybody else is happier than I am.
And I kind of expect that these guys are going to do a couple of acquisitions in the neighborhood.
And they're going to turn around and take it public and they're going to do well with it and we're going to support them and we're going to help them.
And a couple of deals we're looking at there right now.
Have some gathering systems with them and we'll offer it to them first because we're going to help them.
As far as keeping the 4% or 5% I'd say our interest is to keep that.
And with the idea that that thing's going to go public within the next 12 months and I think it will be a very good public vehicle because they have other pipeline and gas plant assets that they can drop down into it.
Basically I want to hold it because it's got value.
Yes Yes.
I think it's got more value than potentially more value in a public format than it does today.
Right.
But it's not a long-term hold.
You'll hold it until you point -- a year or 2 out it goes public and then at that point you could monetize I guess is what you're saying? Well I think we'll look at choices I mean if the distribution's right and the upside's right we'll look at continuing to hold.
We're not looking to monetize it tomorrow or even if they go public.
We'll just take a look at it.
Got you.
So that's not one of the assets you're looking at to achieve -- to lighten up on debt at this point in time? No.
I will now turn the call back to Doug Miller for closing remarks.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
Good questions.
Anything that we did not clearly answer we would offer you to call myself Mark Chris and we'll get the answers to you.
I think I apologize for being a little bit vague on some of these things but we're kind of in a transition period right now.
I'm taking over these assets.
One of them is a new area.
And so getting real good hard numbers to you right now is a challenge.
We're doing the best we can.
But I do believe we're on a track to have that done by the end of the year.
So I think there's probably expect a little fog around the fourth quarter.
But we think we'll have that cleaned up.
And I think here over the next 30-plus days from an operational standpoint what's going on in the Wolfcamp financially how the -- what exactly what we're getting for the crude oil et cetera.
I think we'll be in really good shape by December 10 to give everybody really focused and a lot better numbers.
Typically we give you good numbers.
But typically we don't do a billion-dollar deal that somebody else was operating.
And so give us a little bit of room on that.
We're going to give it to you best we can.
Because I'm looking at daily reports and on the oil production up in the Eagle Ford and it surprises me.
So I yell at Mike and Harold every Monday why is it 5 000 instead of 8 000? And they have a reason.
So I almost wish I could send out daily reports to all of you guys.
But I think by -- with the pipeline and the compressors in and our weekly meetings with the pipeline company I think by December 10 we're going to be able to give you really good hard numbers.
If there's nothing else meeting adjourned.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Charlene and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Chris Peracchi Director of Finance and Investor Relations and Treasurer.
You may begin your conference sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining the EXCO Resources fourth quarter and full-year 2013 conference call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer and Mark Mulhern our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's quarterly and full-year results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
The supplement Hal and Mark commentary we have posted some slides through our website excoresources.com which you can access to follow on.
With us today in addition to Hal and Mark our other members of EXCO management much of our remarks today will concern our expectation to the future their subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K and other filings these comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Act such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statement.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the EXCO Resources conference call to review results for the fourth quarter and the full-year of 2013.
As Chris mentioned we posted a presentation slides on our website www.excoresources.com and Mark and I will refer these slide number during our remarks.
Before we discuss EXCOs results I want to touch some macro and micro thoughts to frame today discussion.
We believe the recent run up in natural gas prices on the front end of the curve will eventually manifest self itself in the back of curve.
We believe the market underestimates the rates of decline for shale gas and has not fully incorporated the impact of the shift to drilling rigs from natural gas oil.
We expect demand for natural gas to increase in the future which will drive natural gas prices higher and this will be a positive catalyst for EXCO.
On a micro basis EXCO excited the year having enhanced our liquidity and reduced our leverage.
Were focused on three strong shale positions and have an experienced operating team with a demonstrated ability to continuously drive down costs and continuously improve performance.
With a positive start we have in the Eagle Ford we remain bullish on the perspective quarterly buyback that will begin in 2015 and were confident our stronger balance sheet and liquidity will facilitate these acquisitions and anchor EXCO's growth in 2015 and beyond.
Now we are as frustrated as many of you are with the current stock price but we plan to continue our strategy of operational excellence fiscal discipline and opportunistic growth to deliver results we believe that value builds from core execution and that's our primary focus.
With that intro lets go through the presentation.
Turning to Slide 3 yesterday we announced results for the fourth quarter of that exceed our expectations.
Thanks to our employees and contractors we've had a strong operational quarter and drilled turned sales 26 wells its a total of 99 wells turned sales in 2013.
Production for the quarter of 446 million cubic feet equivalent per day was above the midpoint of our guidance and oil production of 653 000 barrels for the quarter was above the high end of our guidance.
Adjusted EBITDA of $124 and $418 million for the fourth quarter and year respectively were above the midpoint of guidance we focused on reducing leverage in between the right offerings and closed and pending divestitures will have reduced debt by $578 million from third quarter 2013 levels.
We continued to demonstrate our fiscal discipline with capital expenditures covering in below the midpoint of our guidance and well below the adjusted EBITDA that EXCO generated.
On Slide 4 you can see that we effectively executed our 2013 goals as presented to you on the fourth quarter of 2012 call.
The formation of the EXCO/HGI Partnership in February enhanced our liquidity and put EXCO in position to acquire a $940 million of sale properties in July establishing our oil presence in the Eagle Ford and building on our leading position in the core area of Haynesville.
We diversified our portfolio through our entry into the Eagle Ford and established a platform for future growth with our drilling partner.
In November we sold TGGT our midstream company and received cash proceeds of $240 million which help to further delever.
And in January of this year we close the rights offering and raised $273 million with a support of our broad shareholder base and our principal investors.
The proceeds allowed us to eliminate the asset sale requirement of our credit agreement six months ahead of the July 2014 requirement and help this pay down our revolver.
On the operation side our team drilled in terms of sales 99 wells and as of the end of 2013 we operate 7 863 gross wells represented 97% of our PDP reserves.
Our 2014 goals were presented on Slide 5 we continue to focus on efficiently developing our asset base and we are having solid results replicating our proven Haynesville efficiencies in the Eagle Ford.
Managing our balance sheet maintaining ample liquidity remains a priority.
Our current capital expenditure budget is well below the mid point of our adjusted EBITDA guidance of $413 million.
We recently entered into an agreement to sell our non-operated West Texas asset for $65 million and we plan to use the proceeds to further reduce the borrowings on our revolver.
On the acquisitions front our business development team continue to look at assets and transactions that make strategic sales for EXCO and are appropriately for organization and our balance sheet.
Regarding search for new CEO our board has engaged an executive search firm and that process is ongoing.
While exact timing of when EXCO will announce the new CEO is challenging to predict you can be sure the management team and the company remain focused on execution.
Slide 6 has some additional details on the pending sale of our non-operated West Texas asset.
We recently signed a purchase and sale agreement with the private operator to sell the right interest for $65 million with the January 1 effective day.
Our net capital investments approximately $7 million we decided to sell our non-operated acres as EXCO continues to focus on its core operating areas.
We anticipate the transactions closing in the first half of this year and we plan to use the proceeds to reduce our revolver.
Slide 7 has our year-end reserve information.
As you can see on the proved reserves waterfall chart we added 400 billion cubic feet equivalent through acquisitions including some 260 Bcf in the Haynesville 116 Bcfe in Eagle Ford and 25 Bcfe for our share of the EXCO HGI partnerships Cotton Valley acquisition from BG.
We added 279 Bcfe due to an increase in gas prices which extends the economic life of certain producing properties and increases the number of economic proved undeveloped locations.
We also added 86 Bcfe of discoveries in an extension through development drilling in the Haynesville Eagle Ford and Marcellus.
These increases were partially offset by divestitures of 358 Bcfe the majority of which was our contribution of properties to the EXCO HGI partnership and production of 162 Bcfe.
The reserves added particularly in the Eagle Ford are more valuable on a unit basis due to their oil content.
In addition we had a reduction of 127 Bcfe related to performance and other factors 92 Bcfe as 127 was related to the Haynesville shale.
I'm going to spend some more time discussing this in some detail.
First we believe our PDP wells are among the best performers in the play.
Most of you on this call know high cumulative production is compared to production life is a very positive factor when reviewing shale reservoirs.
We have wells drilled in 2009 and 2010 and have already produced average cumulative production of 5.2 Bcf and 4.4 Bcf respectively.
However there have been some recent factors that have affected our PDP performance.
One factor that has contributed to our reserve revision in the Haynesville Shale is Highline pressure.
A majority of our Haynesville Shale wells produced into a high-pressure gathering system and are experiencing liquid loading.
These pressures have impacted our PDP performance and as a byproduct have also impacted our proved undeveloped reserves.
We're taking actions to improve the situation.
We're working with our midstream provided to reduce line pressures and alleviate loading and we will have some additional data on this production impact in the near future.
We've also been adding artificial lift to enhance the existing production.
Well spacing is a key consideration in our PDP performance.
We began our development in the Haynesville with eight wells per section spacing based on higher natural gas strip prices and our focus on getting wells drilled to accelerate gas production.
We drilled 35 out of our 42 develop sections with this eight wells per Section spacing to our PDP well performance is heavily weighted towards this.
We've since shifted to seven wells per Section and have drilled six sections with this spacing.
The wells drilled under seven wells spacing have outperformed the eight well spacing.
In addition our wells offset to the unit wells have been impacted so we'll be adjusting the spacing to distance the offsets from the cumulative production pressure sinks to the unit wells that have been on production for over three years.
Most recently we drilled one section with six wells per section and put these wells online in November.
We plan to drill seven sections in 2014 with six wells per section.
We decided to continue development based on six wells per section as it optimizes our economics on our per well and per unit basis.
With our ability to manage drilling completion costs we can generate higher rates of return and run better section economics versus spending additional capital on an incremental section well.
While we expect all of these efforts to enhance our production from existing and new wells these planned improvements will not be incorporated into our proved reserves until we have the data to support and objectively quantify these results.
As we look at our year-end reserves we believe our proved reserve numbers are fairly conservative as the production we're seeing from multiple wells drilled on seven well spacing is above our third-party engineer proved undeveloped type curve.
We believe our Haynesville and EURs will approach seven BCF per well on six well per section spacing but we must evaluate our spacing and operational improvement effort results before we give you a more definitive EUR.
Now turning to Slide 8 our 2014 capital budget is $368 million which is 8% higher than our 13 CapEx of $340 million.
80% of our budget is directed towards development activities totaling $294 million and East Texas North Louisiana represents 50% of our total budget.
This budget was developed before we witnessed the recent increases in near-term natural gas prices.
We continue to monitor the movement near and long-term natural gas prices as we evaluate our future activity levels.
While we remain committed to managing our capital spending we could add additional rigs if if if the economics exceed our return hurdles.
On Slide 9 you can see EXCO's 70 000 net shale acreage across East Texas and North Louisiana.
Our core Holly position includes about 30 000 net acres in DeSoto parish where we had 369 wells flowing to sales on 42 developed units at year end.
For 2014 we plan on developing seven of our 37 undeveloped units by drilling 34 wells in the Holly area.
Well also be drilling the Shelby area of East Texas in 2014.
We have about 70 000 net acres in Shelby with 70 flowing to sales at year end.
Our historical Shelby activities have been focused on delineation drilling technical evaluations and completion and flowback design testing.
Based on our ability to apply the skills and learnings we developed in the Haynesville with managing drilling completion costs and the recent success of other operators on offset acreage near Shelby we're resuming this drilling program.
We plan on drilling eight wells with laterals up to 7 000 feet increased profit per completed foot and more restricted flowback.
If this drilling completion proves successful this program will provide a growth platform for future development.
Slide 10 provides additional detail on the success we've had with optimizing drilling efficiency and realizing significant savings.
The chart on the left highlights our spud to rig release performance as we improved from 56 days in 2009 to 33 days in 2013 representing a 40% reduction.
And very importantly it demonstrates our improved performance every year.
The chart on the right compares EXCO's spud to total days to other operators and indicates our consistent outperformance as compared to our peers with the dashed green line sloping down and to the right over time.
For 2014 while we're modifying the Holly frac design by adding three frac stages with water well spacing.
We still expect our drilling completion costs to total only $7.5 million per well.
Our Eagle Ford operations are outlined on Slide 11.
We have about 48 000 net acres in the oil window with an option to earn additional net acreage.
Our acreage is primarily held by production and also includes additional upside and other formations including Austin Chalk Buddha and Pearsall.
We drilled 23 wells in the core area of Zavala County from the end of July acquisition date to year end 2013 and turned seven to sales with average initial production rates of 570 barrels of oil a day.
At year-end our shale oil production from 140 wells averaged 6 700 net barrels of oil per day.
In 2014 we plan on drilling 90 gross wells on 500-foot spacing with a five rig program.
We're continuing to evaluate our farm-in option acreage and plan to drill 6 farm-in wells during 2014.
Weve utilized our expertise developed in other shale areas and have realized significant operational efficiencies.
We're averaging 15 days from spud to rig release and our drilling completion costs are averaging $6.9 million per well approximately 8% lower than in July.
Our operations team is working on gathering systems compression and central facilities to reduce total project costs and improved returns.
We expect to install 90 pumping units in 2014 to enhance existing production.
We're currently evaluating 37 000 net acres that are perspective for the Buddha formation.
We've licensed about 500 square miles of 3D seismic data since this evaluation we're monitoring operator activity on offset acreage and we expect to complete our announcement later this year and we'll provide you an update when done.
The map on Slide 12 highlights the broad acreage position we have in Appalachia.
EXCO holds some 290 000 net acres with approximately 145 000 net acres perspective for the Marcellus shale.
As you look across our three focus areas Appalachia has largest undefined shale resource potential based on this large acreage position.
Weve focused our shale efforts in Armstrong and Lycoming County Pennsylvania.
At year-end we operated 124 Marcellus wells and total net Appalachia production including both shale and conventional well averaged 65 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
Our Appalachia production has been relatively stable for the year averaging 63 million cubic equivalent per day which we think is impressive given the low level of capital we've deployed in the area.
We've had strong results on some recent wells turned sales and one well IP to $11.3 million cubic feet a day in December.
With our 70% held by production position in the region we control the timing of the development of our acreage but due to regional price differentials we've reduced our drilling program in this region we plan on only drilling two appraisal wells during 2014.
With that I'd now like to turn the presentation over to Mark for the financial overview.
Thank you Hal and good morning.
I just want to make one comment before I dive into the numbers here.
A lot of the notes this morning and some of the issues around our release that focused on some of the matters that Hal talked about Spacing Highline pressure those types of things.
I just want to emphasize one point that Hal made in his presentation at the end of 2013 this company operates 7 863 wells thats a lot of experience we have a very strong technical team.
We are dug into these issues on Spacing Highline pressure and have every confidence in the world that we will address them and fixed those issues.
So look for that as we go forward with respect to those technical challenges.
So on the table on Slide 13 has the financial highlights for the quarter and the full year.
And you can see that we had improvement on revenues adjusted EBITDA and adjusted cash flow driven by the increase in oil production.
Hal previously noted our positive performance as compared to our  the midpoint of our guidance so all in all a solid finish in the quarter to a productive 2013 for EXCO.
Slide 14 demonstrates our positive deleveraging momentum.
Since net debt peaked at almost $2 billion at the end of the third quarter we have worked aggressively to get our leverage metrics and debt back to the appropriate levels.
With the closing of the West Texas asset sale we will have reduced net debt by $582 million since September 2013.
And we expect our 2014 CapEx to be well below our adjusted EBITDA.
The reduction in outstandings on our revolver balance has enhanced our liquidity as shown on Slide 15.
Adjusting our year-end numbers for the pending West Texas transaction we expect to have $534 million in liquidity and we believe dispositions us well going into the quarterly buybacks beginning in 2015.
With respect to our partnership in the Eagle Ford in the second half of 2013 we drilled 23 wells that we anticipate will be eligible for buyback from our partner in the first quarter of 2015.
We have analyzed what that potential buyback might look like using current strip pricing to estimate the amounts.
Using round numbers we estimate our partners capital investment for those 23 wells is approximately $90 million.
To achieve their drilling capital return they need to receive approximately $108 million.
We estimate approximately $58 million of that $108 million will come from first-year cash flow leading $50 million is the buyback that EXCO would need to fund.
We estimate the PV10 value for the interest were making and offer on at that time to be approximately $86 million.
We believe that the PV10 value is more than sufficient to allow us to finance the buyback with conventional reserve based lending.
So as outlined in this example EXCO would have no financing shortfall and the buyback would be 100% funding by first year cash flow and revolver capacity from the producing developed reserve value we acquire.
I almost feel like I should read that again.
Because there has been a lot of speculation about the financing pressure around this relationship.
So I'm going to read it again.
With respect to our partnership in the Eagle Ford in the second half of 2013 we drilled 23 wells that we anticipate will be eligible for buyback from our partner in the first quarter of 2015.
Weve analyzed what that potential buyback might look like using current strip pricing to estimate the amounts.
Again using round numbers we estimate our partners capital investments for those 23 wells is $90 million.
To achieve their drilling capital return they need to receive approximately $108 million.
We estimate $58 million of that $108 million will come from year one cash flows leaving $50 million as the buyback amount EXCO would need to fund.
We estimate the PV10 value for the interest we are making and offer on at that time to be approximately $86 million.
We believe the PV10 value is more than sufficient to allow us to finance the buyback with conventional reserve based lending.
And again as outlined in the example EXCO would have no financing shortfall and the buyback would be a 100% funded like first year cash flows and revolver capacity from the PDP reserve value acquired.
So again there has been some commentary about our financing pressures assuming the scared revolver based lending market remains intact our analysis and projections indicated the funding needs to satisfy the buyout requirements are well within our financing capabilities in 2015 and beyond.
So Slide 16 has our first quarter 2014 guidance and were confirming the previously announced full-year 2014 EBITDA guidance of $400 million to $425 million.
EXCO projects first quarter adjusted EBITDA to be $105 million to $110 million with a production midpoint of 405 MMcfe per day.
The adjusted EBITDA range for the first quarter is based on NYMEX pricing of $5 for natural gas and $98 for oil.
The fourth quarter 2013 to first quarter 2014 production decline of 9% is primarily attributable to timing of completion activities in East Texas North Louisiana and shut-ins due to offset completion activities in South Texas.
EXCO currently has five rigs running in East Texas North Louisiana which will fully develop seven units during 2014.
The majority of our expected wells be turn to sales for 2014 occur in Q2 and Q3 with the first fully developed Haynesville unit schedule turn to sales early in the second quarter.
The South Texas EXCO currently has five operated rigs running focused on our core area acreage.
We are currently experiencing a high level of shut-ins due to offset completion activities in the core area.
You should note that the South Texas wells currently being developed have a lower working interest of approximately 16% in their first year production before the buyback versus EXCOs existing PDP wells of approximately 66% working interest.
We give you that color just so you can interpret the guidance and see the scaling through the year.
For the full year our adjusted EBITDA range is based on first quarter prices previously discussed and then $4 natural gas and $90 oil for the second to the fourth quarters of 2014.
EXCO maintains an active hedging program to facilitate the execution of our development plan assist in managing our liquidity and help protect our downside exposure to commodity price.
Currently for 2014  for 2014s expected production approximately 83% of our gas and 94% of our oil are subject to hedges at average swap prices of $4.23 and $95.70 thats in the appendix of the slide deck we provided.
So before we conclude I want to touch on just a couple other items.
Our Board meeting is scheduled later in March than last year.
So any decision on a first quarter dividend will be made at the meeting on March the 10th.
As always any future declaration of dividends as well as establishment of record and payment dates is subject to the approval of the Board.
In addition based on discussion with investors we have decided to not schedule on Analyst Day in Dallas until after we have a new CEO in place.
So in conclusion we have demonstrated that we are executing on our strategy and delivering on our commitment.
We have a clear predictable growth pipeline and look forward to both production growth and adjusted EBITDA growth in the years to come.
Our balance sheet improvement and liquidity are more than adequate to fund the buyback and we believe successful execution will result in increased value for our shareholders.
So thank you for your time this morning.
Now Hal and I will take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
Your line is open.
Good morning Leo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hey guys.
Could you share any data on kind of any recent Eagle Ford well results maybe just in terms of I dont know IPs or 30-day rates or EURs and what you've seen out there in the field now that you guys are out there operating? What we said in our presentation weve averaged about 570 barrels of oil per day on the wells that weve drilled of late.
So were realizing the results that we anticipated and its steady as she goes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in terms of the buyback example Mark that you quoted in 2015 I guess just to be clear so you're basically saying your current estimates are roughly $50 million a quarter based on example in 2014? Thats right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess additionally you mentioned that that could be entirely financed under the revolver.
Would that be the actual plan is to finance that entirely under the revolver or might you also think about alternative ways to fund it going forward? Yes we  what I would say is I dont think were making any commitments exactly now about how exactly well finance it.
But I think my point of the example was to demonstrate that we believe the PV10 value of the properties we acquire will give us additional capacity.
And we believe that thats readily doable in the bank markets the way they currently operate so thats kind of how I would think about that.
And youre right it would be roughly $50 million a quarter again we think we can finance a number of ways but the revolver option would clearly be available to us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the smaller asset sale you've made in the Permian I guess it's good to see improved liquidity.
Is there any production associated with that or is that just acreage? There is a couple of wells that are online now.
The wells were making somewhere between 300 barrels and 400 barrels of oil a day on average.
Leo we didnt have anything in the borrowing base.
So there is nothing in the secured borrowing base related to this asset where we were just developing it at the end of 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful color.
Thanks guys.
Hey Leo one more thing before you leave LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I want to go back to the Eagle Ford just for a minute.
The question you asked about EURs and production heres what I would say the good news on the Eagle Ford from my perspective is so were interested in production were interested in cost were obviously interested in the price of a commodity so here is what has happened since we made that acquisition in July of last year.
Our guys have done a fabulous job on the cost side.
So I cant remember we  I think we had 7.2 million of well in our original estimate.
I think were trending below 7 million and making further progress there on the cost side.
On the production side were generally in line with where we expected things to come but we are doing a lot of artifical list so I think weve got planned like 90 artificial list for 2014 so we expect that to help the production levels and so I think we are satisfied in that arena and oil prices right now we would have projected back in July that those would be lower than they are today.
So in our minds we are making good progress on that acquisition and have had good success in integrating it and getting things to where we want them to be.
Obviously our goal is to replicate the manufacturing capability weve proven in Haynesville and we believe we're on our way to doing that.
One more comment on that as far as the IP goes I was quoting 24-hour IP I think the 30-day IP is around 450 barrels today of oil.
And one other comment I will make is that we are seeing some leasing opportunities down in Eagle Ford so we picked up some additional acreage of late.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right thanks guys really helpful color.
Our next question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
I appreciate all the color around the Eagle Ford.
Can you help us with how that $450 million barrel 30-day housing hydrocarbon split looks on that? What kind of pricing you're getting on your crude if I assume it's fairly standard gravity but any color around that would be great.
The 450 barrels day that we quoted is our oil number.
And we didnt make some minimal amount of gas down there but its not significant in our valuation.
Gotcha.
And then how are you guys thinking about first year declines at this point out at that Eagle Ford asset? I know it's fairly early but how are those wells tracking on a first-year decline? We are looking at this point we really dont have any new production that you know to go operations here but basically estimated about 73% decline in the first-year 38% in the next year first flat now.
Thanks.
And maybe hopping over to the Haynesville you guys have re-initiated over in Shelby.
Haynesville's been a great place for you guys to get operating costs and well costs down.
How should we think about those Shelby costs starting out and where you expect to get to as that gets started back up? Well as you know its deeper higher pressure higher temperature early on in the play we were exceeding $12 million for drilling and completion costs at Shelby.
We are anticipating that we will be drilling these wells and completing these wells for about $3.5 million at this point.
Great.
And we are of course drilling much longer lateral over there than compared to Holly.
We are talking about 7 000 foot laterals.
Sure.
In more frac stages et cetera.
Right.
I appreciate all that guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amir Arif.
Your line is open.
Guys just a few questions first on the Eagle Ford when you are looking to buy those Eagle Ford assets on a quarterly basis what commodity prices you used to determine the payout to KKR? Yes we use so the estimates that I read you the estimates that I read you we were using 2014 prices whatever the strip was we did announced which I think Im reading just to give me one second 417 for gas just over $90 for oil for the 2014 prices and then we were using again a current strip that added up 80 on the tail kind of 420-ish on the tail-end gas.
But to determine the right number what is the time is that the strip price or? Yes.
It is the strip price at that current time.
So in 2015 we will use the current strip to do that valuation.
That has integrated.
Okay and then for you I mean the bank commodity steel infrastructure is sometimes lower but I guess they would give you benefit of any hedges that you have against that production? They do give us benefit of the hedges and they generally use your rate of discounted number of that but PV9.
Okay.
And then on the I mean if you kept your 2014 E&amp;D spending flat into 2015 and if we just lever in this acquisitions is that enough to turn top line corporate production around? Im just I hesitate to give you that number only because we havent done the full analysis no we obviously have declines in Haynesville and declines from the other areas but we are going to pick up production as result of these buybacks.
I would say we would give you guidance for 2015 when its time.
Okay.
And then maybe you bond these assets after about a years of initial decline I mean after youre holding for a couple of more years is the decline low enough or make sense for you guys to drop it into your MLP or is that a thought process that churn out interest again? That is something we have thought about and considered and would considered at the time is the way I would characterize it.
Okay.
And then just a final question on the Haynesville side I apologize that is drop off on the call but the drainage issues that only in Holly or you also seeing that in the Shelby area? Really are seeing it in Holly.
We dont have enough development in the Shelby area to really draw conclusion what is happening there.
But what were seeing is where there is production that the current over time the immediate offset wells to the unit wells are seeing lower EURs if you will because of drainage.
Okay it is showing up on the IP as well or is it just under EUR in terms of the curve just declines faster? I think its showing up more in the curve not as much in the IP because we're on a restricted flowback program and we can manage those returns.
We're still getting similar IPs on those wells as we are and others.
Okay.
And if you switch to the six per section instead of eight I mean obviously EURs might come down but on an MPV basis any color on how much of an impact? First let me say EURs per well on a six well per section basis we will go up.
Lets go up yes.
Yes.
So follow-up with your next question Im sorry.
So on an MPV basis per section any idea how much of that would change? We are going to increase PV10 per section by going through the six wells and going through the anticipated EUR that we think will increase as we continue with our operational improvement.
I hesitate to give you that exact number.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Heikkinen.
Your line is open.
Hey David.
LLC</strong> Good morning and thanks for the explanation on how you financed the buyback by borrowing against PDP.
I understand the partner guaranteed returns.
Have you calculated or can you share what your calculated return to EXCO equity is using the math you just walked through? I havent calculated it and I dont have it right in front of me.
But if you look back on our Investor Relations website we had it in a presentation.
We had it in a couple of presentations that we filed what we gave you our comparable return on capital to KKRs but I dont  I just dont have that right in front of me.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just on the other side just thinking about the return hurdle for more gas drilling given the way the strip is and then thinking about that versus the capitalization and the clear ability to finance buybacks how high would your capital budget go I guess if you did more gas drilling or do you shift capital or how does that factor in as you're thinking about more capital? David we're committed to managing our capital spending so that we dont exceed the EBITDA LLC</strong> Okay.
So use that as sort of a line in the [Indiscernible].
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
That was all I had.
Thanks gentlemen.
Great.
Thank you David.
Thank you David.
Our next question  Im sorry our next question comes from the line of Matt [Indiscernible].
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hey Matt.
Hi.
Just a quick question I wanted to make sure I understood kind of how you guys are thinking about the Haynesville EURs.
Could you give us a little context as to how you guys booked your seven and eight well section EURs and then as you mentioned the potential uplift or improvement to the six well per section EUR that you may see or expect? Historically if you go back to our 10-K you'll see that like in 2010 we had about 6.1 BCF on eight wells per section and in 2011 we were up to 6.6 BCF.
Well we went into 2012 we were thinking we'd be more into the 7 and when we dropped down to 6 wed get the 7 BCF at least.
As we talked earlier we're getting more of 3 BCF from the auditor at this point which we believe is going to be on low side.
We see that our wells outside of the offsets are making about 6.5 BCF.
So we think its down  its going down to 6 wells will get us in about that 6.5 BCF.
So weve never been really outside of any large ranges there.
Okay great.
And then just in terms of the Haynesville asset could you give us any color on how you guys are thinking about the base decline in 2014? I assume that will start to slow a bit but just wanted to get some context there.
I think well follow up with that on the base decline.
Again the number of wells we are bringing on has changed this year were seeing a fluctuation in general were seeing after the first and second year you get into about 37% to 30% so you're 30% decline about the third year we dont really see that  dont see that type of profile.
We also think that with some of our operational efforts that are ongoing as we speak lowering line pressure putting in artificial lift using bolmor working on our scaling thats occurring in a very few wells.
We do believe that well be able to arrest of the declines and so until we get some of those results back we're hesitant to talk about what the actual numbers going to be but I think its going to get better thats what I say qualitatively so.
Great.
And then last question just on the Marcellus you guys have obviously reduced capital expenditure there given the issues around the differentials.
I was wondering how you guys think about that asset strategically within the portfolio.
Is that something that could potentially be used to fund growth in your higher rate of return plays like the Eagle Ford? Just wanted to get a little bit more context there.
There is a lot of things.
As any responsible management group would do youre going to look at all your alternatives there.
We think there is still some dramatic upside we are very disappointed with the differentials that were seeing particularly in Lycoming County on gas but we think weve got some good acreage positions weve got some quality acreage positions that's going to afford some opportunities in the future and how that plays out well just see.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Karpel.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I know we've gone over this a few times.
Appreciate reading it twice but maybe walk through it a third time here or fourth time on the wells to understand exactly the way we should think about this.
I think youre saying that its 23 wells and that 23 wells is going to hold per quarter? I think the math worked out to be 23 times $2 million a piece.
So is that right and that assuming no ramp up as we move through 2015 and maybe even talk about all the way through 2016? I didnt quite follow your $2 million but let me just go through this.
So we are estimating about 20 wells a quarter 80 wells a year.
So that's what we've kind of agreed to with our partner.
So that would put you at 240 to 300 wells over three four year period.
So what happens is we agree our partners and us agree on what wells were going to drill and where thats all agreed-upon and we go out and execute the drilling program and those wells are then on production per year.
And there is certain qualifications they estimate for them to go into a buyout package but what I walk you through was we drilled 23 wells again we close the acquisition in July August so we took the full.
So the second half of 2013 in our minds are first full quarter so a quarterly package.
So those 23 wells would be in a quarterly package we sit down and we do a PV10 calculation of those 23 wells at that time.
So in 2015 well do the math using the current strip we will go and then make an offer to our partner to buyback those wells and were allowed to credit effectively against the purchase price the amount of first year cash flow that they received.
So and the example that I read to you the 23 wells our partner put up $90 million of capital on those 23 wells for them to be required to sell to us we got to get them a $108 million of return on that $90 million and $58 million of that is coming from first year cash flow.
So that leaves you $50 million to get to them as return which we believe well do through again an example I used we may do it differently but an example I used we believe that well have $86 million of PV10 value for those 23 wells which we think in todays bank market we could finance that some advance rate which give us plenty of capacity to come up with $50 million to the revolving bank loan market and therefore EXCO wouldnt have a shortfall at that point in time we wouldnt have to put in any of our free cash flow we would finance to buyout between the first year cash flow and whatever revolving capacity we acquire.
And believe thats going to be replicable every quarter so we're going to keep doing that every quarter for the next 12 to 16 quarters depending on how we get through this drilling program and that's the arrangement that we have in place.
Right.
So the $2 million was the $50 million to finance divided by the 23 wells.
Got it.
Got it.
So we should just think about it financing somewhere in the neighborhood of maybe wells a year at $2 million is $160 million.
Thats very fair.
And then the second part of that is as a result of that financing that youve done I know paid on the revolver and what not when do you think about terming that out the rest of that as you are going to ramp back up nine months from now with a little bit of use there.
So when you think about terming out the revolver I guess.
Yeah so here is Hal I think about it just from a balance sheet and fiscal responsible perspective I would agree with your commentary we are a little highly drawn on the revolver all those got much better since weve got to slides offering and the sale of TGGT and now the sale of this West Texas property we are in very good stead with revolver in terms of where we are in terms of drawn but I agree with you we look at it all the time.
I'm not telling you when we're going to do this but we look at terming out.
We look at our options around how we should finance and what's the prudent thing to do? So we'll continue to do that as we go forward.
What do you think about as potential options that coming back to the bond market like you have in the past? I think that will on the table sure.
And then just last one obviously the big hire in the conventional JV/MLP.
What's your game plan there in terms of growing that and how do you grow that and or what not? Yeah I mean so here is what I'd say about that Harbinger and EXCO entered into this partnership to develop these conventional assets we put some of the EXCO assets into that partnership and had been trying to look for opportunities to grow that platform I think that was a collective agreement that it would be helpful to have more dedicated experienced leadership and thats how Matt Grubb came to the table Matt got hired he is an ex-SandRidge guy got a lot of experience so were excited have and we think its going to be very good for our growth plans for that partnership and we are very much aligned with Harbinger around trying to grow that MLP and try to create some value there.
There is a significant effort is ongoing on the business development front to dry to identify growth opportunities [indiscernible] getting the door.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Robertson.
Your line is open.
Thanks Mark.
I was just wondering if you could share any kind of range on production for that first group of wells that you made  that you will make the offer on the first quarter 2015.
From what it might be producing at that time? Jeff I dont have that right in front of me but if you call me I can probably get you that Ive got  I got a sheet numbers in front of me I dont have production unfortunately on this page.
Okay.
Just give me a call.
Second question were the wells that you will drill in the program over the next several quarters be much different than the first 2013 there in the program? No we think they are going to be very similar.
Okay thanks.
Our partner and we have agreed on the specific wells that we will drill and identified those quarters go ahead and we are definitely in the same general areas that we believe that the results would be similar.
Okay thank you.
There are no further question in queue at this time.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you everyone for participating this morning.
We look forward to visiting with you one on one in some point in the future anyone that has any interest in further following up on this call for further questions please get in touch with us.
Again thank you for your attention and your participation this morning meeting adjourned.
This concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Courtney and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Schedule First Quarter Earnings release and Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Director of Finance and Investor Relations and Treasurer Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you Courtney.
Good morning and thank you for joining EXCO Resources First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Mulhern our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's quarterly results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving following by Q&amp;A session.
You can access our first quarter review slides on our website at excoresources.com and we will refer to these slides by slide number during our remarks.
With us today in addition to Hal and Mark are other members of the EXCO management.
Since much of our remarks today will contain our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Acts.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris.
Good morning.
Thank you for your interest in the EXCO Resources Conference Call to Review the Results for the First Quarter of 2014.
EXCO's transition to an execution focused more predictable easier to understand entity is well underway.
First let's follow up on the macro thoughts we discussed on our last earnings call back in February.
With the coldest winter in North America since the early '80s EIA storage levels bottomed at 822 Bcf at the end of March the lowest levels since 2003.
Storage is currently at 900 Bcf or so 48% below last year's level and 53% below the 5-year average.
As we move further into the injection season our contrast are currently low storage levels with only 310 or so land-based rigs drilling for natural gas covering near to lowest levels since the early to mid-'90s.
Combining these near term data points with longer-term expectations for growth in natural gas demand from power generation manufacturing and petrochemicals exports to our neighbors and LNG exports we believe our positive outlook for North American natural gas prices is reinforced and with great opportunities for EXCO going into 2015 and beyond.
Slide 3 provides the key takeaways from today's call regarding our first quarter results.
EXCO delivered solid results ahead of guidance as we continue to focus on operational execution and enhancing our liquidity.
Our $500 million senior unsecured notes issuance in April reduced our secured borrowings and added length in term to our capital structure.
We remain focused in 3 strong shale positions and have an experienced operating team with a demonstrated ability to improve efficiencies and drive down costs.
With that continued success in the Eagle Ford we're bullish on the prospective quarterly purchases from our drilling partner.
These purchases will begin in 2015.
We're very confident our stronger balance sheet and liquidity will facilitate these acquisitions and anchor EXCO's growth.
Turning to the highlights on Slide 4.
Yesterday we announced results for the first quarter that exceeded our expectations.
Adjusted EBITDA of $112 million exceeded the high end of guidance.
Production for the quarter of 407 million cubic feet equivalent per day was above the midpoint of our guidance and was driven by oil production of 593 000 barrels.
In addition we reduced debt by $630 million over the past 6 months so now we have about $790 million of liquidity.
We continue to demonstrate fiscal discipline with capital expenditures coming in below our adjusted EBITDA.
Thanks to our employees and contractors we drove 36 and completed 15 wells in the quarter and continued to operate safely and in compliance with rules and regulations.
On Slide 5 you can see EXCO's 70 000 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana.
During the quarter we operated 3 rigs focused on manufacturing in our core Holly area in DeSoto Parish Louisiana and 2 rigs focused on appraisal testing and delineation in the Shelby area of East Texas.
We drilled 13 wells and completed 2 wells in the quarter.
As a result of our manufacturing designs which include multi-well pad drilling and completion operations we had 10 wells waiting on completion at the end of the quarter and we have already begun turning them to sales.
Our core Holly position includes about 30 000 net acres in DeSoto Parish Louisiana where we had 358 wells flow into sales on 42 developed units at quarter end.
For 2014 we're developing 7 of our 36 undeveloped units drilling 34 wells in the Holly area.
We've initiated drilling operations on our first cross unit development in DeSoto Parish that includes drilling 5 wells with 5 000 to 8 000-foot laterals.
For this particular drilling cross unit development provides us the opportunity to horizontally drill into a unit that we would not have previously drilled as it has a fault that bisects the unit.
With the improved regulations in Louisiana we are able to drill across unit boundaries contact more horizontal sections with longer laterals from a single wellbore.
Of course this results in additional recovery and improved economics.
We're planning the operational skills we developed in Holly as shown on Slide 6 to manage drilling and completion design scheduling and costs in Shelby.
We'll resume drilling in the first quarter.
We have 16 600 net acres in the Shelby area with 70 wells flowing to sales at quarter end.
We plan on drilling 8 wells in 2014 with longer laterals up to 7 000 feet increased profit for completed foot and more restricted flowback.
The results from these 2014 program will formulate the basis for future manufacturing in the Shelby area.
We plan for this to provide a growth platform for EXCO as we have an inventory of approximately 290 Shelby area drilling locations for future development.
We're encouraged by the early results of our base production initiatives including reducing the gathering line pressure from 1 250 psi to 900 psi in a portion of our Holly field.
The initial results for the 40 or so wells included in this test show an 8% to 10% production uplift as a result of the reduction in line pressure.
We're also adding artificial lift and we're studying both interim lateral compression and full field compression options to enhance our base production efficiency.
Following up on our discussion from last quarter we've included our DeSoto core Haynesville top curve on Slide 7.
With our 2014 budgeted $7.5 million drilling completion capital and a 6.9 Bcfe bar [ph] which has been prepared by a third-party engineer we forecast 48% wellhead rates of return based on year-end strip process in the table which are lower than the current strip.
The upside in returns with higher gas prices and lower drilling completion costs is shown on the smaller graph on the right of the slide.
For example with a $4.50 strip you have a high 60% rate of return.
The green line in the curve documents the performance of the wells drilled on 6 wells per section that returned to sales in November of last year.
As we discussed on the last call we're now manufacturing based on 6 wells per section as this optimizes our economics on a per well and per unit basis.
With our ability to manage drilling and completion costs we can generate higher rates of return and realize a better section economics versus spending additional capital on an incremental section well.
As you can see on Slide 8 we have a significant drilling inventory with over 1 200 identified drilling locations in East Texas North Louisiana.
At a flat price depth of $4.25 and our current cost about 6 of these locations generate a 20%-plus bt rate of return.
EXCO has 14 years of economic drilling inventory based on our current drilling base of 42 wells per year and this $4.25 price deck.
Turning to Eagle Ford on Slide 9 we have approximately 48 000 net acres in the oil window with 4 main options to earn additional net acreage.
Our acreage is primarily held by production and also includes additional upside and other formations including Austin Chalk Buda and Pearsall.
We operated 5 drilling rigs during the first quarter focusing our core area in Zavala County Texas.
We drilled 23 wells and completed 13 wells during the quarter.
We realized average 24 hour initial production rates of 480 to 490 barrels of oil per day in the core area wells we've completed since July which is in line with our 375 000-barrel type curve.
Here individual well economics provide rates of return in the mid-30s on a flat $90 oil price.
Our 2014 drilling program consists of manufacturing and testing in the core area and appraisal drilling in the adjacent farm-out areas.
We have budgeted drilling 90 gross wells including 6 farm-in wells in the Eagle Ford.
In addition our evaluation of the 37 000 net acres that are potentially prospective for the Buda formation is underway.
We've realized significant improvements in our drilling performance since we acquired the Eagle Ford assets as shown on Slide 10.
We continue to achieve improved drilling tasks per well and are currently averaging 13 days from spud to rig release compared to 17 days in 2013.
We recently drilled a well on 11 days with a measured depth of 14 000 feet including a 7 100-foot lateral.
There's no single reason for this improvement.
Multiple enhancements including bit selection changes to our BOPs and centralizer program and frankly experience all contributed to this improvement in drilling time.
During the first quarter our shut-in volumes in the Eagle Ford ranged from 1 650 to 2 500 net barrels of oil per day which we had factored into our first quarter guidance.
These shut-ins were due to offset drilling completion and maintenance activities.
Managing shut-in volumes is an important factor as we have a higher working interest in the PDP wells we purchased in the Eagle Ford acquisition when compared to the wells being drilled under the participation agreement.
Our shut-in volumes will decrease over time as we optimize our manufacturing low drilling and completion activities with our production activities.
This directional decline of shut-in will have some ups and downs quarter-to-quarter due to our drilling completion schedule.
Our net shut-ins are currently down.
Our April shut-ins have ranged between 1 000 and 1 500 net barrels of oil per day.
But we do expect some continued ups and downs on these volumes.
Finally in the Eagle Ford we're performing microseismic analysis that will provide additional data to help us with our decision-making and management of shut in volumes spacing and frac design.
We're also implementing initiatives to optimize and increase the efficiency of our oil production.
We installed 24 pumping units on producing Eagle Ford wells during the quarter and have plans to install a total of 90 pumping units during 2014.
Over the first 40 days after installing artificial lift we've averaged 21 barrels of oil per day of net uplift per well.
This investment in rod pumps pays out in about 2 months.
In order to reduce transportation costs and production expenses we've contract with a third-party to design and operate oil and water gathering lines central production facilities and an oil pipeline from our core area.
We expect to have our first central facility operational during this year.
The map on Slide 11 highlights the broad acreage position we have in Appalachia.
EXCO holds about 290 000 net acres with approximately 145 000 of these net acres prospective for the Marcellus shale.
With our 70% HBP in the region we control much of the timing of the development of our acreage.
Due to regional price differentials we've reduced our drilling program in this region and plan on drilling 2 appraisal wells during 2014.
Our Appalachia production has been relatively stable.
It was marginally impacted by the challenges of the cold winter that caused higher than average downtime due to freezing conditions.
We've had strong results on our recent wells turned to sales with our most recent well IP-ing at 11.3 million a day in late '13.
This appraisal well is currently flow in 7 million cubic feet per day on a 1 400-psi restricted choke.
I'd now like to turn the presentation over to Mark for the financial overview.
Thank you Hal.
And good morning.
I'd like to turn you to Slide 12 which basically summarizes our financial strategy we've been executing.
We made tremendous progress in debt production and liquidity enhancement and that's received a significant focus at EXCO.
With our current liquidity we are well-positioned for the Eagle Ford purchase program beginning in 2015.
With regards to our capital program we continue to monitor the movement in near and long-term natural gas prices as we evaluate our future activity levels.
While we remain committed to managing our capital spending we will consider additional rigs if the economics make sense.
On the acquisition front our business development team continues to look at assets and transactions that are consistent with our strategy and are appropriately sized by our organization in our balance sheet.
On Slide 13 you can see our first quarter performance as compared to guidance.
So we had a solid quarter.
Adjusted EBITDA performance was primarily driven by better than forecasted oil production as we turned to sale as more wells than initially budgeted.
Our operating in general and administrative cost came in -- also came in lower than forecast and these positives were partially offset by lower gas production and price realizations.
As Hal mentioned we had 10 wells waiting on completion at the end of a quarter and as we've indicated on a prior call the majority of our expected wells being turned to sales for 2014 occur in Q2 and Q3 with the first fully developed Haynesville unit already having been turned to sales.
Our second quarter gas production guidance on Slide 14 reflects this completion timing in Haynesville along with shut-ins for completion activities.
It's an important point.
We did give you some guidance that our quarterly performance would be influenced by timing of when we drill and when we bring things to market here so I think it's really important when you look at our guidance to consider that.
So our second quarter oil production will be impacted by the shut-ins we've previously discussed and our average daily production is expected to reach a low point for the year in the second quarter and then improve from there.
So the guidance is 375 million cubic feet equivalent per day based on the drilling and completion schedule for the remainder of 2014.
In the aggregate we are forecasting an adjusted EBITDA range of $90 million to $95 million for the second quarter.
Again we think that's a low water mark for the year.
So for the full year our adjusted EBITDA range is based on $4.33 for natural gas and $96.67 for oil in the second quarter.
And then we've gone to a flat $4 for natural gas and $90 for oil in the third and fourth quarters; recognizing as Hal said in his earlier comments that we're bullish relatively priced to the rest of the year for especially in gas.
EXCO maintains an active hedging program to facilitate the execution of our development plan assist in managing our liquidity and help protect our downside exposure to commodity prices.
So for 2014s expected production approximately 83% of nat gas and 95% of oil are subject to swaps and calls at average prices of $4.24 and $96.48 respectively.
So Slide 15 is an important slide that you've seen from us before and as part of our debt offering.
It has our cash debt and liquidity at March 31.
We use the proceeds from the $500 million unsecured notes issuance in April to pay off our $298 million term loan and a portion of our revolver.
So again we believe the $790 million of liquidity provides a solid flexibility for the quarterly purchases in the Eagle Ford beginning in 2015.
And as a reminder our rough estimates for those Eagle Ford purchases is about $50 million per quarter or $200 million annually.
So you can see with the liquidity we have we're very confident in our ability to finance those purchases again going into 2015.
So in closing we have demonstrated through our actions that we are executing on our strategy and delivering on our commitments.
We have a clear predictable growth pipeline and look forward to both production growth and adjusted EBITDA growth in the years to come.
We have significantly improved our balance sheet and have strong liquidity.
We believe our continued focus on successful execution will result in increased value for our shareholders.
So we appreciate your time this morning now Hal and I will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brad Heffern.
LLC Research Division</strong> If you could give a quick update on the CEO search and how things are going there? Yes Brad good morning.
It's Mark Mulhern.
Not much new to report there.
As we've said before the governance committee of the board is actively working this issue.
We have a search a professional search firm assisting them.
There has been some activity but really nothing to report publicly at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Looking at the Haynesville and sort of the progress you guys have made on the line pressure issues during the quarter.
I think that you guys lost something like 92 Bcf in reserves at year end '13 as a result partially of high line pressure.
I was wondering if you can give some color around how much of that could potentially come back with the solutions that you're putting in place? We think that there's a chance for -- not just a chance a likelihood that a significant amount of those volumes will be recovered.
It's not just line pressure it's a combination of factors.
But that said I noted in the call that we were up to 6.9 Bcf on an EUR basis in core Holly.
That was actually 6.3 Bcf at year end.
So you can see we've already recovered that.
Now we'll reiterate that that number was prepared and endorsed by third-party engineers.
So a lot of that recovery has already occurred.
But we do not state reserves on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
Understood.
And kind of along the same lines there's a bullet that you have in the slide that I didn't hear you comment on in the prepared remarks saying that 84 2009 and 2010 Haynesville wells have produced over 76% there in the EURs.
I was wondering if you could provide a little more context to that.
Is that saying that the amount of reserves that you're in for those wells were so low that they've already produced a significant amount of that this year? Or is that saying of the full 6.9 BCF numbers 76% been produced? I think what you're seeing thing there you're onto something.
What we believe is that traditionally reserves are produce over time and having that 76% already having been produced at this point in time gives us an indication that with the expected life of these wells we have much more upside than we currently have booked.
Your next question comes from Brian Singer.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to make sure so we're clear on the trajectory of guidance and the impact of the shut-ins -- really on the natural gas side you talked about Haynesville the Haynesville completion-related timing can you quantify what that is in 2Q? And then how are you thinking about just what the normal course XT shut-ins type decline rate is? I'm just trying to juxtapose that with the trajectory of the implied second half guidance.
So Bryan here is how I would think about this.
So if you lay the 2 slides next to each other 13 and 14 from our slide deck what you see is we were on the low end of production guidance for gas for Q1.
And you see what we've done in Q2 for gas production we've actually lowered that number.
If you remember what we said was we were going to have obviously our decline curve in the Haynesville and the timing of when we were going to drill in both the Haynesville and in Shelby was organized around primarily having the turn to sales numbers happen in Q2 and Q3.
So what you're going to see here is we think is the low point in terms of volume in Q2.
And then as we turn to sales our Q2 wells that we drill and our Q3 wells that we drill we believe production in the gas side will increase in the third and fourth quarters.
And that's kind of what reflected in the 12-month guidance.
So if you see the 12-month guidance on Slide 14 you see that 123 that 131 effectively on gas.
That's where we're guiding to.
If you remember this is kind of what we said all along that '14 was going to be a year of some flat to down in production.
And then our anticipation is as we execute on the buybacks in the Eagle Ford in '15 we'll have an uplift in production and in adjusted EBITDA going forward.
Research Division</strong> Your expectation is that fourth quarter will also be above Q3? As opposed to just Q3 being a nice pop from Q2? Yes it's up or up slightly from Q2 -- or from Q3.
Excuse me.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you've got this question many times but as I figure I'll ask it again.
Just as natural gas futures have continued to push up here for '15 is there any contemplation of increasing activity in the Haynesville or the Marcellus? We're always looking at the opportunities.
We're going to maintain some discipline this year around ensuring that our development capital is within our EBITDA.
That said we are looking at some opportunities that could increase by a slight amount the amount of activity we have in the Haynesville.
We're also looking in Appalachia probably not to increase the number of wells but maybe to evaluate where is the best place to drill so when we get volumes online as opposed to only worrying about appraisal.
Your next question comes from Amir Arif.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions.
In the Haynesville first of all the line pressure on artificial lift that you're doing the 8% to 10% uplift in production you're seeing on some initial wells is that factored into your guidance in the second half? We have not really factored that into our guidance because we were obviously executing the program and wanted to see the results.
So there maybe be some upside into the second half of the year guidance from that activity.
The only thing I'd caution is that there's going to be some timing involved in getting compression installed.
So the likelihood of that having a significant impact during '14 is not big.
It's more likely it will have a positive impact in '15.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay so would you be with the lower line pressure then I take it you want the higher IP? Or would you just choke back the well a little more? Or are you comfortable with the choke back program you have? We're comfortable with the choke back program as it stands.
The IP would really have the biggest impact -- the biggest impact on the line -- the line flooring pressure lowering would be on the base production.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then in terms of well cost.
You brought your well cost down quite a bit.
Do you see those going lower by the end of '14? In terms of the $7.5 in the Haynesville or the $7 million in the Eagle Ford? Or do you think it's...
Go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I just want if you sort of hit a run rate now? No we always think that there's some room on a technical limit.
We continue to challenge our staff to continue to look for improvements in both efficiencies and design.
But as far as our planning goes we're continuing to use the same numbers in our guidance as far as capital planning and budgeting.
Am I optimistic in the Hayns we might get a little bit more? Yes but I'm not counting on it.
But in the Eagle Ford I'm a little more optimistic because it's real early days if you will.
I mean we've already operated it since August.
We've taken out significant amount of cost.
We dropped from $7.2 million to $6.9 million.
Our only recently have seen some of these 11 12 13 day drill times.
So I believe as we continue to operate there and we continue to evaluate both our designs and we gain experience I think there's some move downward that we expect there.
I'm not going to put a number around it but I do think it will move down.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and then just focusing on the Eagle Ford the 90-yard wells that you're going to drill can you tell us how many are in the core? And how many will be outside the core? 84 in the core.
6 are in the farming acreage.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Do you have -- you put out an IP on the core.
Do you have IPs or average IPs outside of the core? Is it...
Outside of the core its been a wide range.
And I would say that in some areas -- we've already drilled some wells there.
We've been very very happy and there's some well where we've identified areas where we will not drill.
So it's a wide range.
I leave it at that.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Budapest.
Is that coming in 2Q? Or is that the results or is that more second half? I'd say that's definitely second half of the year.
We're evaluating it we're looking at it with internal technical teams we're also evaluating what's going on in the area with our peers or competitors if you will.
But it's a second half event for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay and just one final question.
So 11 000 or net acres in the core the rest of acres the 35 000 36 000 acres that are outside of the core.
Is there a timing on exploration? Or just given the well results you're seeing or what should we be thinking about how much of that you'll continue to hold? Most of our acreage is held in the core areas.
So that's not an issue for us at all.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And the 37 000 outside the core? It's held as well.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> That's held as well.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Michael Rowe [ph].
Yes just one question certainly back to the Eagle Ford.
So it's not in these presentation materials.
But in projection with the notes offering you all disclosed 375 Mboe type curve for the Eagle Ford.
So is that supposed to represent what you all expect in the core area? Or is that representative of your entire acreage position? That's the core area.
That is definitely the core area type curve.
Okay.
And any initial thoughts on what the EURs is going to look outside of that? Or is that still too early to tell at this point in time? Again it's a wide range.
It's very early we've only drilled a minimal number of wells out there.
We think that to the North Northeast we're very optimistic that there's going to be some good results there.
I think that if you look in South Southwest I'm not as optimistic about it.
But it's going to be a wide range.
And I think some of it will be at or above the type curve average that we're seeing in the core and I think some of it will be below.
Okay great.
And then I just had one final question on the Haynesville.
So the 8% to 10% production uplift from the lower-end gathering line pressure.
I just wanted to know is that something that's also being actively tested by other operators in the play? And I guess from a macro point of view what do you think are the potential implications to gas supply coming out of the Haynesville if this becomes more widely used? First I'll say that some of the other operators because of their gathering systems and the systems that they go into are actually operating at significantly lower pressures.
We're probably on the high side at this point.
So we've got some opportunity there.
I don't see it as a big change on a macro basis from the whole area or the play.
But I do think that we see some upside.
There are some specifics like I said where we've seen people operating as low as 400 pounds in different sections of the play.
Your next question comes from Howard Henick.
A couple of quick questions.
One is so you talk about hedging with calls and I think that's kind of a misnomer.
So how much of your hedging particularly for gas is calls versus swaps? There is a slide in the Appendix on Page 20 of the Appendix of our presentation if you want to refer to that you can see the breakdown of the calls versus swaps that we have for '14 and '15.
Okay.
And the next question is if you're bullish on nat gas why would you use calls? Which again is not really a hedge it's really just income in case it goes down.
Why not use puts spend the money and leave yourself the upside while protecting you from the downside.
If you really are bullish on natural gas prices which I am -- but if you write calls you're giving away the upside and still have a downside.
Yes these calls were entered into in 2012.
12.
So we were about here in terms of just our view of the market and what we're doing here.
So I would say we'd be very much more consistent with what youre thinking than we would be with kind of what we've done historically.
So I just think you should watch for an evolution.
I think there's 2 things that have happened for us at EXCO: #1 as you had commented the macro environment for gas we think it gets much better here; and the other thing that's happened is our balance sheet and liquidity is much stronger and much improved and therefore we can I think be much more opportunistic around what we do here from the hedging perspective.
And that's why we're preserving some upsides going into '15 that you will see us again we will take action when we feel it's appropriate.
But we really think there's going to be rising prices here and we want to be able to take advantage of that.
And I apologize as I haven't had the chance to get that far into the Appendix but what is the 2015 percentage hedged? And do you still have calls written then or is that already done? Yes as you see if you will refer to Page 20 we have a very small amount calls out in '15.
And we probably are somewhere in the neighborhood of 25% 30% hedged for '15 somewhere in that neighborhood if you mix it all together.
So you still -- a lot of it you're predominantly not hedged in gas at least.
I mean I have no problem hedging oil I just don't understand hedging gas.
I agree with you completely.
Your next question comes from Jeff Robertson.
Research Division</strong> Hal and Mark can you all talk a little bit more about the cost trends in Eagle Ford.
I'm just curious as to whether you're also seeing savings on the LOE side that go along with the capital cost savings that have an impact on the buyout economics that you all have shown in the press in terms of what you think you'll have to pay versus the PV-10 of what you'd be buying at the time the options are exercised? First I'll address the cost structure then I'll let Mark talk about that PV-10 and the buybacks.
But again we do anticipate some improvements in cost both on the capital side and the expense side.
I think we've got a track record of that.
We're transferring a lot of our learnings from some of our other plays where we've had experienced down there.
We're doing everything from getting our system and our virtual data room operational.
It is operational now.
We've actually hired a new production superintendent who is very experienced to go down there get his hands on it.
We've got some efforts underway.
Like I mentioned in the remarks about putting in a gathering system some central facilities in oil transport line.
We haven't really disclosed the number but that could have a significant -- when I say significant I'd say double digit type impact on our transportation cost to move a barrel of oil.
It also could have a significant impact on the cost to move a barrel of water.
So we've got things heading in the right direction there.
I think the pumping units are adding significantly to our production so we've got a lot of positive things that are happening down there.
We remain very optimistic from an operations perspective that we're going to be able to improve our drilling completion and operations cost.
So Jeff the only thing I would add is you've seen our illustrative example where we talked about the 23 wells and what we expect the kind of economics of the buyouts to be in '15.
And I don't think we've changed that view very much.
I would say that reduction in costs that Hal has talked about in other words driving down the cost to drill a well is great for us because we save $0.20 effectively on every $1 we spend.
Because as you recall the deal is we got to get over 1.2x return on their capital so the more we can reduce that number the better off the economics are from EXCO's perspective.
So I think we're on path to deliver effectively those the economics that we've illustrated in that example.
And I don't think much has changed there.
I think the operating guys are doing a really good job of managing cost.
And Hal's right the shared services that will help improve the cost over time for us and so we're optimistic about it.
Your next question comes from David Munson [ph].
You've got a 375 000 barrel EUR in the Eagle Ford.
How much of that is first-year EUR? Well...
24%.
About 24% of the production is produced in that first year.
44%? 24% sir.
2-4.
24%.
And we have about a 70% to 75% decline during the first year and it produces about 24% of our EUR.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you for your participation this morning.
And with that we'll wrap up the call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Lianne and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Schedule Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release and Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you Lianne.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining EXCO Resources Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Mark Mulhern our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's quarterly results.
We will also provide some insights as to how we see our business evolving followed by Q&amp;A session.
You can access our second quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these by slide number during our remarks.
With us today in addition to Hal and Mark are other members of EXCO management.
Since much of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Acts.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
We thank you for your interest in the EXCO Resources conference call to review results for the second quarter of '14.
Before I get into the details on EXCO's operating results I want to follow up on the macro commodity thoughts we discussed on our last earnings call in April.
On the oil side we're obviously pleased with the elevated price of oil.
Our expectation is for continued strength in oil prices as global geopolitical risk remains high.
Our July '13 Eagle Ford acquisition has helped diversify our commodity mix and oil sales made up about 30% of our second quarter revenues.
On the natural gas front while it's been hot here in Texas summer in most of the country's been colder than last year and coupling weather with supply natural gas storage injections have been strong.
Near-term natural gas prices have fallen from the $4.70 range in mid-June to the $3.70s now and EXCO's stock price has been negatively impacted despite the fact that for '14 we're swapped at about 67% of our 2014 production guidance at $4.23 per Mcf.
Notwithstanding the near-term volatility in natural gas prices we remain positive on the multi-year outlook with longer-term expectations for growth in natural gas demand from power generation manufacturing and petrochemicals exports to our neighbors and LNG exports.
These factors will create future opportunities for EXCO.
Now let me address the primary question that early reports on our release regarding capital expenditures.
We got approval to increase our capital budget by up to $80 million in June when natural gas prices were in the high $4s.
We established our operational rig plans for the second half of '14.
Now shifting natural gas prices to the high 3s is causing us to reevaluate our plans.
Now as you'll see we're guiding 2014 CapEx to be $400 million to $440 million up from our original $368 million budget.
We're trying to strike the right balance of capital deployment and future production growth.
I want to assure our stakeholders that as we make decisions on what capital we spend and where we invest we'll consider both short and long-term impacts on our balance sheet and income statement.
We continue to evaluate industry trends commodity prices and internal operational and financial analyses to assess potential modifications to our drilling program.
We remain focused on efficiently managing our capital expenditures as part of our development program.
Any additional development will be incorporated into our hedging strategy and we may enter into additional derivative contracts to protect our return on investment.
Additional develop in '14 resulting from our capital budget flexibility will primarily impact 2015 production volumes due to the timing of when the potential additional wells are turned to sales.
Now before I turn to our results and frankly to head off any questions that I know you're going to ask the CE search remains ongoing and we will update you when appropriate.
Now turning to Slide 3.
This slide provides the key takeaways from today's call regarding our first quarter results.
EXCO delivered solid results ahead of guidance and we continue to focus on operational execution and enhancing our liquidity.
We remain focused in 3 strong shale positions as you know and have an experienced operating team with a demonstrated ability to improve efficiencies drive down cost.
Our $500 million senior unsecured notes issuance in April reduced our secured borrowings and added length in term to our capital structure.
Our stronger balance sheet and our stronger liquidity will help anchor EXCO's future growth.
Turning to the highlights on Slide 4.
Yesterday we announced results for the second quarter that exceeded our expectations.
Adjusted EBITDA of $105 million exceeded the high end of guidance.
Production for the quarter of 383 Mmcfe per day was above the high end of guidance and was driven by oil production of 579 000 barrels and 31 Bcf of gas production.
Capital expenditures were in line with guidance.
Thanks to our employees and contractors we drilled 32 and turned-to-sales 25 wells in the quarter as we continued to operate safely and in compliance with rules and regulations.
On Slide 5 you can see a depiction of EXCO's 70 000 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana.
During the quarter we operated 3 rigs focused on manufacturing in our Holly area in DeSoto Parish Louisiana and 2 rigs focused on appraisal testing and delineation in the Shelby area of East Texas.
We drilled 11 wells and turned-to-sales 12 wells in the quarter in East Texas/North Louisiana.
Our core Holly position includes 30 000 net acres in DeSoto Parish where we had approximately 360 wells flowing to sales at quarter end.
During the quarter we drilled 7 wells and turned-to-sales 10 wells in Holly.
We continue to manufacture this core asset on 6 wells per section and with additional data we have increased our proved reserves from 6.3 Bcf per well at year-end 2013 to 6.9 Bcf today.
Three of the wells we drilled are on our first cross unit development in DeSoto Parish where we're drilling 5 wells in total with 5 000 to 8 000 foot laterals as compared to our typical 4 200 4 300 foot Holly lateral.
With cross unit development we're able to drill across unit boundaries and contact more horizontal section with longer laterals from a single wellbore resulting in additional recovery and improved economics.
Cross unit development will enable us to drill at least 10 sections in which we have not booked undeveloped reserves due to a major faults presence.
We've been at the forefront of Haynesville manufacturing so we now have the opportunity to optimize our base production tap the upside of our HBP assets.
To optimize our base production we've initiated multiple projects including refracturing of wells to capture new reserves and accelerate production reducing operating pressure with compression projects and installing artificial lift to minimize base production declines and we are very very encouraged by our initiatives.
We recently completed our first re-frac stimulation test in DeSoto Parish.
This test consisted of a fracture stimulation treatment on 2010 vintage well to re-stimulate the shale reservoir near the wellbore.
We pumped 1 continuous job for 15 hours using a temporary diverting agent to stimulate multiple sections of the lateral.
We've seen a 1.3 million cubic feet per day increase in production and a 2 800 psi increase in tubing pressure noting that the well is continuing to clean up.
While we're still analyzing this first re-frac we think the re-frac opportunities across our Haynesville portfolio are significant and can help offset PDP declines.
We have an inventory of over 400 PDP wells to potentially re-frac and we're excited about the early results that we and our partners are experiencing.
We're working on a plan to test different re-frac designs to optimize cost and production in '14 with plans to implement re-frac campaign in 2015.
In the East Texas Shelby area we have 16 600 net acres with more than 70 wells flowing to sales at quarter end.
We're wrapping up the drilling portion of our longer lateral 2014 Shelby test program as we finish drilling our eighth well.
We like what we've seen from the 2 Shelby wells that were completed under new completions program with increased profit for completed foot and a more restricted flowback focused on pressure management.
We're encouraged by the results of the 2 wells with initial production rates averaging 9.9 million cubic feet per day on restricted chokes with an average 8 335 psi flowing casing pressure.
With this revised flow back we're significantly flattening our declines.
We anticipate this program will add reserves in excess of prior forecasts.
The results from this 8-well Shelby program will formulate the basis for our future manufacturing in this area where we have an inventory of approximately 290 drilling locations.
We continue to focus on our base production initiatives in East Texas/North Louisiana.
We've seen a 6% gas production uplift on the 90 wells that we reduced line pressure on by 23%.
Our next step in this process is interim lateral compression in Holly which should reduce lateral pressures by a total of 40%.
We're working closely with our midstream provider and expect to have lateral compression online in the third quarter with full Holly field compression online in 2015.
We also expect to have full field compression in Shelby in the third quarter of 2014.
We've also allocated capital to drill a test well in the Bossier shale in DeSoto Parish during the fourth quarter and we'll use this well to assess the potential of the formation utilizing our enhanced completion techniques.
The Bossier shale lies just above the Haynesville shale and contains rich deposits of natural gas.
We drilled 2 Bossier wells in 2010 and we believe we can apply today's technology with newer completion designs and flow back methodologies and significantly improve on our results.
We also believe we can significantly bring down the original cost of the Bossier wells with the efficiencies that we've gained over the last several years.
This should increase the economic viability of a significant number of additional drilling locations.
The majority of the up to $80 million incremental capital if we go forward with our spending would be targeted for East Texas/North Louisiana.
The primary driver of the increase would be drilling 3 additional high-working interest sections we acquired in 2013 which could be turned to sales at the end of '14 and in early 2015 providing a significant jump start to our 2015 production levels.
If we fully deploy the revised capital we drill up to 46 wells in Holly in 2014.
Turning to South Texas on Slide 6.
We have approximately 49 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil window with farm-in options to earn additional net acreage.
Our acreage is primarily held by production and also includes additional upside in other formations including Buda Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
We produced 534 000 barrels of oil in the second quarter as compared to 525 000 barrels in the first quarter.
We drilled 21 wells and turned-to-sales 13 wells during the quarter in Eagle Ford and had approximately 170 wells on production at the end of the second quarter.
We've realized average 24-hour initial production rates of 475 barrels of oil per day in the core area wells we turned to sales in the quarter excluding 2 wells on the extreme far north side of our acreage.
To optimize our drilling and turn to sales timing we reduced our rig count from 5 rigs in April to 3 rigs in May and June and went to 2 rigs in July.
We continue to achieve improved drilling times per well and are currently averaging 13 days from spud to rig release compared to 17 days during 2013 when we took over operations.
Furthermore we recently drilled wells here in under 11 days with total measured depth of 14 500 feet.
Based on these efficiencies we can drill with fewer rigs.
Going forward we'll be producing a majority of our wells into central facilities.
These central facilities will reduce our total capital investment improve operating efficiencies and minimize trucking.
Two of these facilities are expected to be online during the third quarter and we've built up an inventory of 23 wells that will be completing and producing into these facilities during that time.
We'll focus on completing and connecting these wells and we'll drill with 2 rigs until mid-September before we add a third rig back to the portfolio.
Looking at our overall Eagle Ford program for 2014 we currently expect to drill 72 wells with 63 in the core area.
Our non-core well count is going up to 9 based on our incremental capital expenditures and these wells have higher EXCO working interest.
During the second quarter 2014 we reduced our shut-in volumes by 1/2 as we compare ourselves to the first quarter as we have a continued focus on optimizing our drilling and completion schedules.
Additional upside in South Texas includes the optimization of base production and the evaluation of other formations.
We've installed 64 pumping units to enhance production since we acquired the South Texas asset and we have plans to install an additional 47 pumping units during the remainder of 2014.
Obviously pumping units have very attractive returns with very short payouts.
Our evaluation of the 37 000 net acres that are prospective for the Buda formation is ongoing.
We've recently seen strong results by other operators close by and we're ranking our acreage for prospectivity and analyzing subsurface data and actual well performance.
We're currently preparing to test the Buda formation on a portion of our acreage during 2014.
The map on Slide 7 highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia.
EXCO holds approximately 290 000 net acres with approximately 145 000 net acres prospective for the Marcellus shale.
With our 70% HBP position in the region we control much of the timing of the development of our acreage.
Due to regional price differentials we've reduced our drilling program and now plan on drilling 1 appraisal well to hold acreage during 2014.
This well will offset our most recently turned-to-sales well that has cumulatively produced 1.9 Bcf in just 9 months.
In addition our base declines have been less than originally projected mainly due to our performance in Lycoming and Sullivan counties Pennsylvania.
We recently restructured our field organization to better align the operations personnel with the asset base and reduce our operating costs.
We like having Appalachian assets in our portfolio as they provide future optionality with nearly 2 000 drilling locations.
Slide 8 summarizes the various initiatives that I've touched on that are ongoing across our portfolio focused on our base production.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mark for the financial overview.
Thank you Hal and good morning.
I'm going to turn you to Slide 9 which summarizes the basic tenets of our financial strategy that we have executed on.
Debt reduction and liquidity enhancement have received significant focus at EXCO and with our current liquidity we are well positioned for EXCO's future growth.
With regards to our capital program we continue to monitor the movement in natural gas prices as we evaluate our future activity levels.
On the acquisitions front our business development team continues to look at assets and transactions that are consistent with our strategy.
Taking you to Slide 10.
You can see our second quarter performance as compared to guidance.
Adjusted EBITDA outperformance was primarily driven by better-than-forecasted oil production with lower shut-in volumes along with slightly better gas production.
Our operating costs also came in lower than forecast with our continued focus on cost management.
While actual general administrative costs came in higher than forecast that includes about $2.2 million of one-time costs related to a workforce reduction.
As we have outlined in our production guidance on Slide 11 the timing of when wells are drilled and turned-to-sales impacts the quarterly numbers but does not materially impact our full year expectations.
Additionally third quarter oil production will be impacted by the timing of wells coming online as Hal outlined.
Average daily production is expected to reach the low point for the year in the third quarter at the guidance midpoint of $362 million cubic feet equivalent per day based on the drilling completion schedule for the remainder of 2014.
In aggregate we are forecasting an adjusted EBITDA range of $90 million to $95 million for the third quarter.
We are also reaffirming our full year adjusted EBITDA range of $400 million to $425 million.
Our guidance is based on a $3.97 price for natural gas and $100 for oil in the third quarter and $4 for natural gas and $90 for oil in the fourth quarter.
As you know EXCO maintains an active hedging program to facilitate the execution of our development plan.
It assists in managing our liquidity and helps protect our downside exposure to commodity prices.
For the second half of 2014 expected production approximately 67% of NATGAS and 87% of oil are subject to swaps at average prices of $4.22 and $95.70 respectively.
Regarding the participation agreement in the Eagle Ford the pace of turning wells to sales has been a little slower than we expected.
Our previous illustrative example of tranches of 20 to 25 wells eligible for offer per quarter starting in the first quarter of 2015 could shift 1 quarter or 2 based on the timing of when these wells are turned-to-sales.
This shift will likely result in less capital from EXCO for Eagle Ford purchases under the participation agreement in 2015.
We expect to provide more specifics on the tranches of wells and the timing of projected purchases when we outline our guidance for 2015 later this year.
Slide 12 has our cash debt and liquidity at June 30.
We used the proceeds from the $500 million unsecured notes issuance in April to pay off the $298 million term loan and a portion of our revolver.
We believe approximately $740 million of liquidity provides a solid flexibility for the quarterly offer process in the Eagle Ford beginning in 2015.
Before we take your questions and in closing we have demonstrated through our actions that we are executing on our strategy and delivering on our commitments.
We have a clear growth pipeline supported by a significantly improved balance sheet and stronger liquidity.
We believe our continued focus on successful execution will result in increased value for our shareholders.
So thank you for your time this morning.
Now Hal and I will open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Will Green from Stephens.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if we could start on the re-frac opportunity you guys talked about.
The $1.2 million a day uplift you guys are seeing.
Can you talk about what that production profile looks like beforehand? And has it resumed kind of a predictable decline at this point to where you guys have any early estimate as to the EUR uplift on something like that? You hit on the point.
Will it is very early.
This thing has only been online for about 3 weeks.
Now we saw it go up dramatically.
We were at 550 mcf a day and it went up to about 1.85 and the well literally is still cleaning up.
The water volumes are continuing to come down.
The pressure's held up very strong.
But it jumped from what 1 300 psi to about 4 200 psi.
So very encouraging results and again some refinements needed on our design.
We'll continue to look at that.
One re-frac does not define the way the program is going to be going forward.
We're actually going to try a very different design on the second re-frac where it's on a different type well that hadn't performed that great.
This well in particular had cubed about 4.85 Bcf.
The second well we're going to re-frac is going to be much more of a skin frac and it's only cum-ed about 1.8 Bcf over a similar timeframe.
So it hasn't performed nearly in the same way.
So we're testing the program.
Now until we get 3 4 5 6 months data we're not going to sit here and tell you what we think the reserves booking are going to be.
It's just too early for that and perhaps we're conservative but that's our approach.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I appreciate all that color.
And what's kind of a typical cost to expect to see you guys spending on these re-fracs? Depending on what type re-frac we do.
This one we actually did a little extra science on running some logs getting the well ready and making sure it was the right thing to do.
We spent $1.7 million $1.8 million on this one.
I think future similar re-fracs we could bring down by $300 000 or $400 000.
Now these skin fracs I think you could do them closer to $1 million to $1.1 million.
So again it depends on the design.
But the cost range depending on what type you do is from $1 million to $1.1 million up to $1.5 million $1.6 million.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I'm not sure if you mentioned it but what kind of cost reduction are you guys seeing in the Eagle Ford due to this reduction in drilling time and spend less time on the [indiscernible]? Yes originally we were at $7.2 million when we took over operations on the last conference call.
We were down to $6.9 million.
I forgot to mention that we're actually at $6.8 million today and actually still see some efficiency improvement opportunities.
So it's continuing to creep down and I will color that with the fact that we are seeing some upward pressure from some of our service providers on cost in particular fracture stimulation costs have gone up probably on the order of 8% to 10% per stage.
And so factoring that in we've still been able to bring our costs down.
But it's not as much as we would have thought had service costs stayed flat if you will.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe from TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering thinking about your Eagle Ford program obviously you have the 50% reduction shut-in volumes in Q2 relative to Q1.
I'm sort of wondering how I guess the shut-ins in Q2 compared relative to your original guidance.
Just thinking about how that really impacted your Q2 results and whether or not well performance is actually better-than-expected in your core area? The well performance in the core area has been about as anticipated.
I would not say it's better.
I would say it's coming in line with our expectations.
As far as the guidance I'll defer to Mark and Chris on that color.
Michael it's Chris Peracchi.
The downtime came in a little bit better and that's why you saw a pretty much most of that oil beat.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And I was just wondering could you maybe clarify what your current profit volume is on a per well basis in the Eagle Ford and whether or not do you have any plans to modify this or test upside frac jobs in the future? Yes we've got that.
Bear with me for just a second.
Total profit per stage in the Eagle Ford is about 400 000 okay? And then we're always continuing to modify our designs and Harold do you want to add some color on what sort of volumes we're looking at there? In the Eagle Ford as Hal mentioned 400 000 pounds per stage that's our typical design.
That's our most common design that we're currently pumping.
We have on a larger-job size basis we've been to up about 525 000 pounds per stage.
That's kind of the higher end.
That equates to about 1 640 pounds per liter foot.
So those are early we don't have a lot of data with the wells with those larger job sizes but that's kind of the range is kind of where we've been to date.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the $80 million in CapEx? Is there a certain gas price you guys are looking for on the forward curve to lean to start spending more money here? Yes Leo I would not tie it necessarily specifically to a targeted price.
I think as Hal outlined in his comments we like many others had a thesis that refilling storage was going to be a bit challenging here.
Obviously we've had a cooler than expected summer across the country and we're clicking along here.
It looks like that may not develop.
But so in June we went back to the board and outlined a plan where we would spend a little more capital here.
I think we're now sitting and reevaluating that plan given the context that what's happened with prices.
But again we're trying to balance all of the equations here and that is what's the return on capital obviously but also trying to get some production growth going into next year and doing those things.
And you know how this works you got rig fleets and contracts to manage and people to deploy.
It's just not snap your fingers and kind of turn off the water.
So I think that the idea here is what you're hearing in our comments is that we've got some flexibility and we're going to obviously look to deploy capital as efficiently as we can all again with an eye on balancing kind of production growth returns and keeping an eye on the forward strip.
I mean we still think obviously that you know how this works seasonality happens here as we get into fall and winter we may see some firmer prices and that will dictate a little bit of what we do.
Let me add a little more color to that.
You might have seen a slide we put out in the public domain before Leo that says in our Holly Area at $3.35 flat pricing NYMEX we can actually meet our internal hurdle rates.
In other areas it's $3.75 going up to $4.25.
So we're going to be selective on where we drill.
Like Mark said we're going to make sure we balance between what's the right thing to do growth-wise what's the right thing to do on our balance sheet what's the right thing to do from your guys' perspective as well.
So it's a balance there but we can drill very very economic wells at the current prices today and we are doing so.
Our operating team continues to be able to bring these things in at AFE or below and in turn we're meeting the hurdle rates that we want.
So in the mid-$3 range we could definitely drill a number of economic wells.
We still have a number of locations in our portfolio that will allow us to do that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess maybe just jumping over to you all's comment on your biz development team continues to look at acquisitions and opportunities.
Can you guys elaborate on that at all? Are there any specific areas that you guys are targeting and may either be something in combination with your JV with Harbinger that you're looking at? Or is this more EXCO looking at opportunities? Just any color you had around that would be helpful.
Yes I mean I think it's fair to say no -- not surprising to anybody who follows the company obviously Haynesville and Eagle Ford are our areas where we're spending drilling capital and have activity.
Marcellus we have obviously a good position there as well but not very active there from a drilling and exploitation perspective.
So I would say we have at the EXCO level been interested in those 2 areas: Haynesville and Eagle Ford and have looked at a number of opportunities.
On the MLP side they have been very active in a lot of the sale processes and we've obviously been involved with that as well.
So nothing directly to report.
But the MLPs focused on these conventional assets long-lived shell decline kind of asset packages and they've been very busy with what they're doing.
So that's what I would say our business development team's been focused on.
Okay.
And I guess in terms of Eagle Ford I think you guys had drilled some step-out wells this quarter.
It sounded like in your prepared comments that maybe they weren't as good and you guys pulled some of those out of the average.
Can you just talk about what you guys are thinking on some of the step-out acreage here at this point? If that's the message that we conveyed I apologize for that because some of the step-out wells have actually been very very strong and in turn that's why we're actually increasing the number of wells we're drilling outside of the core area.
Particularly to the East we've been excited about some of those results and I don't want to give a whole lot of disclosure around them because it's still an evolving play and we may want to lease some more land out there.
But the bottom line is we like it and it's been a very positive result for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the CapEx question just to be clear crystal clear that the budget has gone up or you've gotten the permission to increase your budget by $80 million if these commodity prices hold both on the oil and natural gas side would you expect to increase your budget? And what within that $80 million would that be? Well again Brian to be very specific about what Hal said in his comments and what you see on the guidance slide is we've adjusted the guidance to a $400 million to $440 million range from $368 million.
So think about that on the low side $30 million high side $70 million.
And again what we said in our remarks is we're looking at the plans and what our strategy is around rig deployment and try to balance again some of these objectives together.
So I don't -- I would say we're evaluating those numbers.
I don't expect we'll spend all the way up to that $80 million but we will spend some of it.
So I mean I think that's how you should think about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just bigger picture can you just talk about the key leverage metrics you use when evaluating CapEx and the potential for CapEx increase or a greater capital allocation as you go forward? From a financial perspective we're obviously keeping our eye on liquidity.
We've got the normal debt-to-EBITDA covenants and the revolver package and all that.
So we're mindful of all that.
We keep that obviously at the forefront when we're thinking about hedging.
So when we think about pricing and what our expectations are we obviously do some downside thinking around what our covenant requirements would be.
But then on the other side of this obviously it's evaluating liquidity and what we deploy capital to in relationship to kind of growing production growing EBITDA as the company moves forward.
In 2015 as you know we've got the Eagle Ford buyback packages starting with our participation agreement with KKR.
So we've got some we think some clarity around some growth opportunities in '15 but we're also thinking that some investment in further exploiting our properties can help us with some growth objectives for 2015 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> And do you think about the KKR Eagle Ford acquisition as spending as replacing a portion of your CapEx budget this year when you think about next year? Or is that all incremental? In other words should we think about the base case level of activity as flat to up in 2015 and then you add on the Eagle Ford acquisition spending beyond that? Or does one replace another? So it's early right.
We haven't given any real visibility around that but I would say it's mostly incremental.
I mean the CapEx budget could be balanced a little bit with it but I think it's mostly incremental.
Your next question comes from the line of Yanni Jacobs [ph] from Chart Topics [ph].
I appreciate your efforts to improve the operations reduce costs increase profitability.
The main reason why I'm investing in ESCO is because I really believe that natural gas is -- has begun a long-term bull market.
And I think that even though you guys have debt and I guess some investors view financial statements as troublesome I think that natural gas prices going up in the future would help the company.
So how do you guys -- going forward I know you're hedged but assuming prices go up how would you take advantage of those rising NATGAS prices in terms of either hedging or improving the financials? Yes I mean obviously we're sitting at this table because we have the same belief that you do.
So in our view on a long-term basis we do think natural gas prices will be positive.
And our view is we're obviously mostly a dry gas company with our positions in the Haynesville and up in the Marcellus.
We believe we've got a lot of optionality going forward.
I think if you look at some of our slides where we've indicated the number of drilling locations and what the economics go around what prices indicate reasonable returns and those we've got a lot of inventory.
So our view is we've got a lot optionality in the company around your -- what you believe around prices.
And I think that the hedging question is one of balance right? You've got a leveraged package here at the company that we obviously have to be mindful of and we have generally been looking 1 year out pretty well hedged 1 year out.
Again going into '15 we're probably a little less hedged than we normally have been.
At this point I think our liquidity position our improved liquidity position has given us some flexibility around that.
But we're in your camp and with respect to being bullish in the long term.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe from TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I will jump in here again if I can.
Just wanted to think about kind of looking at your Q3 gas guidance and what would kind of be required in Q4 to hit the low end of your gas guidance for the year.
It looks like you may need to if you have a 4% quarter-over-quarter decline in Q3 you may have to be more flat kind of in Q4 to hit the low end.
So I'm just wondering is that a function of fewer completions in the first half of the year and then more completions weighted towards the second half of the year that kind of helps those gas volumes pick up.
Yes.
There's no question that if you look in -- if you think about our guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year you go back and kind of look at what we said we said we were going to -- we thought we were going to be back-end loaded on turned-to-sales especially on the gas side of this thing.
So yes we have -- I'm looking around the table here at our operating team.
We've got some goals and we told you Q3 is kind of be -- going to be the low point in terms of production.
We've got some delivery to make in Q4 there's no question.
But again we're very confident about our abilities to do that.
We've got a good team and a good operating relationship with our contract crews.
So yes but Q4 will be important to us in delivering on the full year guidance no question.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess just a last question from me would be you're talking about some new completion enhancements that you're trying in the Shelby area.
And then with the new Bossier test well later this year you want to try a couple things new relative to some of the wells in 2010 that you drilled and completed.
So would you mind just providing a little bit more context on kind of what the baseline is for each of those areas and where you're going to on the completion design? Starting with Shelby first.
Looking at the Shelby area one of our main drivers in the Shelby area is really to improve our prop per foot our job size.
We've increased our job size in that area and then the rate restriction in the Shelby area is going to be important.
We've discussed the results of the first 2 wells.
They're pretty early on but it's very encouraging.
We're managing the pressure profile there.
So that is the single largest change we've made down in the Shelby area.
On the laterals.
And the lateral links are longer as well.
That's a third component at Shelby.
When you look at Bossier going forward the Bossier data we have up in the Holly area is really as Hal mentioned dated back to 2010.
So we've learned a lot since 2010 over the last 4 years on just completion evolution.
So what we want to do is essentially apply everything we've learned on the completion side the design side itself.
The cluster spacing has changed over that period of time.
And then going forward the rate restriction we think is really important.
In 2010 when we drilled those Bossier wells we frankly flowed them back too fast.
We opened up the choke too much.
We had a restricted choke program but we went up to probably 28 30 64s.
Now we had limit that dramatically and managing that flow back we think will help preserve the integrity of the reservoir.
And in turn we think that we'll be able to add some EUR to what we originally forecasted in the Bossier.
Also you can't discount the fact that we've bought our costs down dramatically since that time.
We were spending nearly $10 million -- $9 million to $10 million a well at that point.
We think we can get these Bossiers drilled now for probably $7.5 million to $8 million $7.5 million to $8 million.
Go ahead Mike.
We have stronger laterals too.
Yes.
With our development section we can probably almost probably half or more than half we can do long laterals.
Mike I think the way you're -- obviously you asked a very specific question and I think you got some color.
But if you look at Slide 8 in our slide package we've put out with the earnings release I think you see a number of different initiatives that the technical and operating team here are working hard to deliver on and I think we've got some -- we're excited about the possibilities of a number of these things and some of the things you've hit on the call today the re-frac opportunities some of these line pressure things some of these other things that opportunities and to explore other basins.
And again apply some of the learnings that we've had over a long period of time of drilling out the Haynesville in particular I think we're optimistic that we've got some really good levers to pull here that can help us stabilize the production decline and add value for the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas from Baird.
Just wanted to ask a little bit about your guidance with regards to the oil production in particular.
We only have 2 quarters left and just looking at what you gave for Q3 Q4 sort of implies that Q4 is going to be a meaningful decrease in the way of production.
Can you speak to whether that's just a little bit conservatism being that far out? Or is there something that we should be factoring in in our modeling? Owen this is Chris Peracchi.
From looking at the numbers correctly you actually will see the -- based on the completions that Hal had touched on the oil production kind of sequentially migrating down a smidge and then you see it picking back up again in 4Q to get to the total number for the year.
Okay.
I'll sort of refresh the model and make sure I'm okay with that.
And just wanted to also ask a little bit about that those Eagle Ford assets with KKR.
Can you sort of give us a bit more color in terms of what's the pushback the completion rate there? And how we should think about the asset purchases? Will it be absolutely none in first quarter 2015 and everything moved over to second quarter? Or I mean how should we think about the pacing on those acquisitions? First let me address the central facilities and then Mark can talk about the KKR buybacks.
We decided to go to a central facility concept for multiple reasons as I outlined in the comments earlier.
But in particular these central facilities reduce capital significantly for us.
And they minimize truck traffic and it gives us the central location from which we can treat facilities.
And it's actually going to reduce some of our cost particularly on the trucking side and on the transport side.
In turn those things are delayed about 1 month beyond what we originally thought they're going to be turned on at.
So they're going to come online between August 15 to 22 is the first one and the second one should come on in September.
And we delayed completing some of those wells that we don't put well site treating facilities on until those central facilities come on.
So it's simply a matter of timing.
It has nothing to do with our operation efficiencies or service providers.
It's simply timing.
We're awaiting the installation and startup of the central facilities.
So let me then connect the dots to the relationship with our participation agreement with KKR.
So the concept of turned-to-sales is a very important one in the agreement.
If you recall how this works is the clock effectively for our obligation to make an offer to buy them out is -- revolves around turned-to-sales.
So you can drill these wells.
If they're sitting there and they're not turned to sales the clock hasn't started.
So that's why I'm giving you a little bit of caution around the timing of when these happen.
So no I do not -- to your question specifically no I believe there will be an opportunity for us to offer on some wells in the first quarter of '15.
It may be just less in number.
If you remember the illustrative example we gave was we thought 20 to 25 wells would be in that first tranche.
That may be a lower number.
Again partially because of this central facilities issue that Hal has talked about.
So I'm expecting just a push out in time and I -- what I would expect us to do as we get closer to the end of the year give you very detailed -- our detailed expectations of what we think those tranches might look like for 2015.
And I'd then the only last comment I'd make is I think what this means is there's potentially less buyback capital in 2015 for us.
In other words we -- I think we will have to fund less buyback capital in '15 above our regular CapEx.
That obviously also has implications that in production and adjusted EBITDA but again we'll give you that picture when we're ready to do that.
But that's what I wanted to just indicate in my comments.
Your next question comes from Ted Lieu [ph] from Valley Financial Group.
Just a quick question.
Are you using any downhaul micro-seismic on your re-fracking processes? Yes we are.
We use micro-seismic and we use it to analyze some of our programs.
We didn't use it on this particular re-frac if that was the specific question.
But we do use microseismic.
Yes.
Across our portfolio particularly to understand what's going on in the rock as we frac wells and such.
But on the re-frac we didn't use it on this instance but we've used it most recently down in Eagle Ford.
And I have no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back over to our presenters.
Thank you very much for your interest in EXCO.
This concludes our second quarter earnings call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Rachel I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Schedule Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release and Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rachel.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining EXCO Resources Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCOs quarterly results.
We will also provide some insights as to how we see our business evolving followed by Q&amp;A session.
You can access our third quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these by slide number during our remarks.
With us today in addition to Hal and Ricky are other members of EXCO management.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Acts.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
Those of us at the company thank you for your interest in the EXCO Resources conference call to review results for the third quarter of 2014.
Before I get into the details of EXCOs operating results I want to discuss recent industry and commodity trends and how they line up with our capital expenditure plans for the remainder of 14 and into 2015.
Oil prices have recently faced some significant headwinds while we cant control oil prices we remain particularly enthusiastic about our South Texas oil assets where were focused on reducing our costs and testing our acreage not only in the Eagle Ford but also for additional productive zones like the Buda to enhance our returns.
From a hedging perspective we have 4 250 barrels per day of production swapped at approximately $96 for the fourth quarter of 14.
This represents 73% of our midpoint oil production guidance.
This obviously helps mitigate some of the near term volatility in oil and I should note that oil sales made up about 34% of EXCOs third quarter revenue.
Natural gas price and our stock price have also been challenged.
Again we focused on the things we can control including utilizing enhanced completion methodologies across our portfolio and managing our costs.
For the fourth quarter 14 we have 215 000 Mmbtu per day swapped at $4.23 and this represents 70% of our midpoint gas production guidance.
We continue to evaluate commodity prices industry trends and internal operational and financial analysis to assess modifications to our development program.
In light of the current commodity price environment were deferring some drilling and completion activities in North Louisiana as we manage our 2014 capital expenditure budget.
And we expect 2014 capital expenditures to total approximately $420 million the midpoint of the guidance from last quarters call.
Were currently working on our 2015 capital budget and are focused on managing our capital expenditures as a review of our economic return criteria cash flow generation and of course our broad inventory of development opportunities.
Now as we indicated in a recent press release the CEO search process is ongoing and that process may result in EXCO acquiring oil and gas assets in connection therewith.
If we went down that road I would describe a potential acquisition is complementary to our existing asset base.
Now before I go through the slides I want to pause and thank our EXCO team.
Weve continued to execute on the commitments weve made earlier this year particularly to focus on our development program improve our liquidity and fortify our platform for future growth.
Throughout the year our results have met the guidance weve publicly forecast.
Im proud to be associated with people at this company from our field personnel to our employees in our corporate offices to our board of directors.
I can assure you were all continuing to work to deliver improved results and enhance our value for you and for ourselves.
Now starting with the slides slide three provides key takeaways from todays call regarding our third quarter results as we continue to deliver on our commitments.
As in the prior two quarters this year we met or exceeded our key guidance parameters.
EXCO delivered solid results with 33 billion cubic feet production or some 358 million cubic feet per day.
Our $94 million of adjusted EBITDA exceeded the midpoint of guidance and our focus on cost helped drive operating costs and G&amp;A expenses below the guidance range.
With the pending sales of our interest in Compass Production Partners well receive approximately $119 million in cash and remove $83 million of Compass debt which we proportionately consolidate from our balance sheet while simplifying our corporate structure.
Additionally we increased our credit agreements borrowing base to $900 million during our recent bank redetermination adding incremental liquidity and demonstrating support for the quality of our asset base.
As of September 30th we had $855 million of pro forma liquidity.
The sale of our interest in Compass fits strategically and financially for EXCO while streamlining our corporate structure and operations.
Were monetizing our minority interests with relatively minimal impact to our adjusted EBITDA and redeploy the capital on the development of our extensive inventory of oil and natural gas properties.
Turning to slide four EXCO is much better positioned in the current commodity environment due to the actions weve taken over the past year.
Were more streamlined and focused we have a more simplified corporate structure and we have significant liquidity to take advantage of our drilling improve development producing output process for oil in Eagle Ford which Ricky will discuss in some detail later and other potential acquisitions particularly in areas where we have operating capability and expertise.
Were testing several upside opportunities across our East Texas North Louisiana and South Texas assets and well discuss this today in more detail.
On slide five youll see a depiction of EXCOs 71 000 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana about 99% of which are held by production.
During the quarter we operated six rigs we completed our 2014 appraisal testing and delineation program in the Shelby area of East Texas and we continue our manufacturing program in North Louisiana.
We drilled 15 wells and completed 7 wells in the quarter at East Texas North Louisiana.
Were currently operating five rigs in the area but we do have some plans to step that down to three by year end.
Our core Holly position in North Louisiana includes approximately 30 000 net acres into Soto Parish.
We had some 390 wells flowing to sales at the end of the quarter.
During the quarter we completed 15 wells and completed 5 wells in Holly.
We recently changed our completion design but we increased the amount of profit per lateral foot by approximately 50% and turned those wells to sales in Q3.
Were very encouraged by the early results from these wells we had this profit increase they have strong rates and flow in pressures.
This represents an excellent example of applied and lessons learned from industry trends as well as our 2014 East Texas program into another area Holly where we expect to see improved well performance and increased estimated ultimate recoveries as we apply these new completions flow back techniques going forward.
Also in the Soto Parish we completed the drilling of our first cross unit development with five wells across two sections with 5 000 foot laterals to 7 000 foot laterals as compared to our typical 4 200 foot Holly laterals.
Well be completing these wells with up to 18 frac stages and pumping 1 600 pounds of sand per foot.
Cross unit development enables us to drill at least 10 sections where we have not booked reserves due to a presence of a major fault.
In the East Texas Shelby area we have 16 400 net acres with approximately 80 wells flowing to sales at the end of the quarter.
Represent slide six we wrapped up the drilling portion of our longer lateral 2014 Shelby test program in July where we drilled three wells into the Bossier and five wells into the Haynesville shales.
We have seven wells turned to sales with eight wells coming online with the end of this week.
We completed these wells under our new completions program with increased profit per completed foot and a more restricted flow back focused on pressure management.
Were encouraged by the results of these wells and we anticipate this program will add reserves in excess of our prior forecast.
Now in these wells we initially estimated reserves of 1 billion cubic feet per 1 000 foot of lateral.
Now we think we should see higher reserved based on our well performance and offset operator well performance where weve seen EURs as high as 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral.
If we could but Im not saying we will but if we could increase the EUR to 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 feet we can add approximately $400 million of potential incremental PB 10 as compared to our current valuation which is based on the 1 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral.
We do anticipate an increase above the 1 Bcf EUR per 1 000 feet.
So were now planning our development program optimizing lateral links well space and completion methods and what were trying to do is maximize our returns as we deploy our capital and we do have plans to start our drilling in Shelby in 2015.
On slide seven you can see were drilling a test in the Bossier Shale and the Holly area of the Soto Parish Louisiana to assess the impact of our enhanced drilling completion techniques on Bossier economics.
The Bossier Shale is just above the Haynesville and it contains rich deposits of natural gas and we prove that drilling two Bossier wells back in 2010.
We believe we can apply what we learnt from our Shelby drilling and completion efforts with these newer completion designs and flow back methodologies into the Bossier and significantly improve our results.
Also note that having existing infrastructure in place should enhance our returns and increase the economic viability of a significant number of drilling locations at lower natural gas prices.
We have some 300 or more Bossier opportunities and if this thing works out well light up a lot of opportunities in a lot of locations.
To optimize our base production in East Texas and North Louisiana we continue to focus on multiple projects including refracturing of wells reducing system operating pressures with compression projects and selling artificial lifts to minimize base production declines.
Slide eight shows the performance of our first refrac stimulation test in the Soto Parish which is providing encouraging results.
The fracture stimulated a 2010 vintage well that it produced 4.8 Bcf before we re-stimulated the shale reservoir.
We realized 1.4 million cubic foot per day increase in production and very importantly a 2 900 PSI increase in flowing pressure more than tripling both volumes and pressures in this instance.
Now we believe we can improve on these results with a future refracs as we modify our diverting process to contact additional sections of the lateral.
Weve identified an inventory of over 270 PDP wells to potentially refract and as were excited about these early results both us and industry are experiencing some real positive signs there.
Were testing different refrac designs to optimize costs and production uplift.
We have three refrac schedules in the fourth quarter and we plan to implement a refrac campaign in 15.
Cost currently range between 1.1 million and 2 million depending upon the design the amount of science applied and the size of the particular refrac.
Also in North Louisiana weve seen a 5% or 6% gas production uplift on some 120 wells where weve reduced lime pressures.
We have lateral compression running in Holly which reduced pressures about 40% and weve seen the gas production uplift on the wells impacted.
Were working closely with our midstream provider and expect to have full Holly compression online some time in 2015.
And we do currently have full field compression running in East Texas where weve seen the 5% gas reduction increase on our Shelby wells.
Turning to South Texas on slide nine we have about 49 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil vendor with farm in options to earn some additional net acreage.
Our acreage is 96% or so held by production and also includes additional upside in other formations including the Buda the Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
As noted last quarter were starting our delineation of the Buda here in the fourth quarter of this year.
Weve seen strong results by other operators very near where our acreage is and weve combined some of our Buda acreage with a partner that will drill a Buda well in November as a part of a four five well drilling plan.
Also well be drilling an operated Buda well in additional perspective in Buda acreage in the first quarter of next year.
Slide 10 highlights our operational performance in South Texas.
To optimize our drilling in turn to sales timing we ran two rigs during the quarter drilling 11 and completing 14 wells.
We realize average 24 hour initial production rates of 493 barrels of oil per day in the core area wells weve turned to sales and average 30 day AIPs of 425 barrels of oil per day.
Were achieving consistently lower drilling times per well averaging 13 days from spud to rig release.
Weve actually seen some days to spud to rig release sub 11 and weve significantly reduced our operating cost.
Based on our current assumptions our wells can generate a 20% well head hour on benchmark oil process down to $73.50 and at $80 we can generate somewhere in the mid to high 20% rates of return.
At the end of the third quarter we had 31 South Texas wells waiting on completion.
We expect to turn 23 to sales in the fourth quarter.
Were actually going to see our most significant quarter as far as our corporate turn to sales activity.
The highest quarter weve had year-to-date was somewhere around 25 or actually turn 38 wells to sales across EXCO here in Q4.
Now down in South Texas well be producing our wells either into our central production facilities the first of which is now up and running or standalone tank batteries if its outside of our core area.
These central production facilities are going to be installed owned and operated by a third party reducing our total capital investment improving operating efficiencies and minimizing trucking.
The first central production facility came online in October and the two additional facilities are currently under construction.
Weve added an additional rig in South Texas so we have three rigs running today.
And we expect to drill 70 wells in total for 2014 61 of which will be in our core [audio gap] Highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia where we have approximately 290 000 net acres including about 161 000 net acres perspective for the Marcellus Shale.
With our 73% held by production position in the region we control much of timing of the development of our acreage and our position provides future optionality with nearly 2 000 drilling locations.
Weve reduced our 2014 activity in Appalachia but were currently expect to drill one to three wells in 15 to appraise and hold acreage.
Id now like to turn the presentation to Ricky for the financial overview.
Thanks Hal and thanks to each of you on the phone for your interest in our company.
On slide 12 you can see the third quarter performances compared to guidance of EBITDA was $93 million little over $93 million which was above the midpoint of guidance.
This is consistent with the first two quarters of 2014 that weve delivered.
It is primarily driven by oil production as well as the companys continued effort on managing operating costs and lowering G&amp;A.
We are focused on the items we can control and look forward to improving those as we move forward.
Id like to take a minute to wrap some numbers around the headcount and G&amp;A numbers.
EXCO has actively managed the number down.
As of December 2012 EXCO had 919 employees after the Compass sale well be down to 516 employees.
This is a reduction of close to 40% taking in conjunction with our entry into the oil assets in South Texas is extremely impressive.
There is a significant focus across the organization to manage cost operated and otherwise.
We have sequentially lowered LOE in each of the quarters during 2014.
The initiatives include significant reduction in our saltwater disposal and reduction of reliance on third party contractors from when we obtained the assets.
These initiatives allow us to preserve our profitability in a lower commodity price environment and we are comfortable that we can continue to execute.
Natural gas came in slightly below guidance due to the timing of well turn to sales in East Texas and North Louisiana a lot of this was driven by frac availability.
In addition two of the wells turn to sales during the quarter came online September 30th.
We have actively managed the capital the number weve put forward is $103.5 million which is towards the bottom of guidance to reflect the current price environment as we move forward.
On slide 13 we put forward the fourth quarter guidance our production and EBITDA soon the sale of our Compass asset which Hal alluded to earlier as of October 31st.
If you exclude Compass from the third and fourth quarter we expect this as a sequential increase in production based on the turn to sales as we currently have them forecasted.
Slide 14 provides an update on the wells that will be eligible for the buyback process as outlined in the participation agreement.
I would like to highlight there are many assumptions that go into the underlying documents and some of the numbers may change before our first offer.
But we thought it was important to provide some context as move forward.
Currently seven wells are eligible for the first quarter of 2015 offer based on how long have been to sales.
Based on the D&amp;C costs wells performance on $80 oil press a flat $80 oil price we currently estimate that the acquired PB 10 value will range somewhere between $35 million and $40 million and the offer amount will be $20 million to $30 million.
This will result in EXCO purchasing wells in an approximate PB 15 and approximately 68 000 per flowing barrel both of which we find to be very attractive metrics for PDP wells in the current environment.
We have ample liquidity to execute this process the acquisition of the PDP wells should result in incremental borrowing base.
In addition the execution of this first tranche would add incremental production of approximately 120 000 to 125 000 barrels in 2015 as we continue to diversify EXCOs commodity risks.
On slide 15 weve highlighted the liquidity and debt numbers.
We recently completed our semiannual borrowing base redetermination and our borrowing base was increased.
This demonstrates the support of the banks and their review of our underlying assets and the quality therein.
When we close our sale of Compass we will receive $119 million and well remove $83 million of debt of our consolidated balance sheet.
Id like to highlight since we entered into the Compass arrangement we had received net distributions of $9.6 million since February of 2013.
Were extremely excited about selling the asset for $119 million.
When you pro forma the borrowing base increase an expected cash proceeds we will have $855 million of liquidity as of September 30 on a pro forma basis.
This is an increase of over $630 million from September in 2013 and Id like to point out there is no near term bonds coming due the first tranche in 2018 and the second tranche in 2020.
We feel were well positioned as we move forward.
On slide 16 Id like to highlight the companys hedge position as Hal had alluded to in his remarks we feel that were appropriately hedged for the fourth quarter and we have looked to hedge in 2015 and feel that we have protected the balance sheet.
We have changed our hedging to rely simply on swaps and utilize costless freeways to provide some exposure to commodity increase as well as protecting the EBITDA by adding the freeway we maintain the opportunity to participate in the upside but have provided the downside protection I alluded to.
In closing we demonstrated through our actions that we are executing on our strategy simplifying our structure and delivering on our commitments.
We have significantly improved our balance sheet and enhanced our liquidity.
Successful energy companies built and manage to take advantage of our commodity cycles.
The management board at EXCO is committed to make EXCO successful.
EXCO is well positioned to execute on our business objective and to be acquisitive in the current commodity price based on our liquidity as we look forward to 2015.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Hal and I would like to open it up for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Michael Row with TPH.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I just got a quick question I guess on the Q4 guidance.
So looks like youre anticipating a Compass sale would occur at the end of October.
So could you give us a feel for I guess how that production today is anticipated to decline from I guess from the second quarter number that you provided on the announcement of the sale through the end of the year.
Im just trying to figure out how much of a reduction the Compass volume will make in the Q4 guidance? We had about 25.5% of the Compass volume and theyve been consistently performing at 95 million a day.
So that would put us down in the 22 million a day or so for 61 days in the quarter.
So well cut the volumes through October 31 and then after theyre down.
Okay.
Probably my math would tell me that well lose 15 million or so per day for the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And I guess you made multiple references throughout the earnings press release regarding EXCOs flexibility to pursue acquisitions.
I understand you probably cant talk in too much detail on this but could you just give us a flavor for I guess the primary goals that you would be hoping to achieve with a hypothetical acquisitions.
Is there any improvement in credit metrics diversifying your asset base acquiring a new CEO or if you can kind of help us think about what youre trying to accomplish there? Ricky talked that through pretty well sounds like all of the above in my opinion.
I mean frankly we look at acquisitions that are going to be in bolt-on areas first and foremost areas where weve got operating expertise and think we can quickly move in and explore whatever opportunities may be presented.
Well look both at oil and dry gas.
Were obviously going to follow through with our business development team and look at things that come across our plate.
Were also been looking at things as simple as acquiring small interest scenarios we already exists like working interests from partners in wells that we operate.
So there is a variety of opportunities we look at but Id say first and foremost were going to look for typical acquisition that would have some PDP associated with it some upside associated with it.
We could use our expert operating team on to go and exploit those opportunities and then of course were going to make sure that they are accretive to the company.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Ill hop back in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Your line is open.
Good morning Leo.
Good morning Leo.
Hey guys.
I had handful of questions around I guess slide 14 which kind of talks about the South Texas wells where you guys have to offered a purchase I guess maybe I wasnt quite understanding exactly how this program worked when you guys announced it here.
But its sort of a look back at some of your wells completed and I guess my understanding was that basically you guys completed a number of wells in a given quarter and then roughly 12 months later you have to offer a make purchase of those wells is that correct? Thats correct.
Okay.
I guess Im just looking at some of the numbers here in terms of what youre expecting to offer 2015 I guess starting with second quarter youre talking about 11 wells and you got 11 wells in the third quarter and youve got 12 wells in the fourth quarter.
But I mean if I did kind of a look back Im seeing you guys completed more wells than that so are there some wells excluded from the offset because of the criteria or what am I missing here? No there are no wells that are excluded.
One of the components in the agreement is the length of time the wells are on production and so as weve developed the area and wells have been shut in for offset fracs or wells have been rotted up and then there is criterion the agreement that extends the time in which KKR has to receive the revenue to get to their turn.
So thats the component that I dont think you were aware of when you looked at it previously.
Okay.
That makes sense.
So basically its 12 month of actual production and excludes any down time on these wells? Yeah another point Leo this is Chris you want to think about is that we also had completed wells outside of the core area 1 AMIs.
So those are outside of the participation agreement and dont go into the offer process.
So that might also be where youre having challenged time seeing up your number.
Okay now that makes a lot of sense as well.
Can you provide a little bit more color around that? I know you guys talked about doing some drill to earn deals and some other acreage and picking up some other acreages.
Are there any rough percentage of activity this year may be next year its going to be devoted to areas outside of the AMI in the Eagle Ford here? Somewhere on the order of 10% of our drilling activity Leo is going to be on acreage outside of that AMI make it up a little bit.
Weve actually leased some acreage out there outside of that area but were continuing to look for additional opportunities.
You may recall weve got a combination of farm in acreage that we acquired from Chesapeake as well as the acreage that weve acquired from Chesapeake that we actually bought.
So there will be some drilling outside of what we call the core area where we partnered with KKR.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Expand on that a little bit.
For this year youre looking at a total count of nine wells that we drilled or plan to drill that are outside of the AMI participation agreement process and we plan to turn to sales 10 wells that are outside of that process.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Could you give us some more color around Eagle Ford well costs? I mean you guys alluded to improvements in drilling times here and there is going to be a focus for you all to try to get cost down.
Could you give us a sense of kind of where youre at on cost base A good number to keep in mind Leo is $7 million per 7 600 foot lateral.
Early on we were saying that we were going to be at $6.8 million $6.9 million and that was for 7 100 foot lateral.
So as weve lengthened our lateral added a frac stage or so weve brought the cost back up to about $7 million.
Okay thats helpful.
And do you guys have any updated estimate on EURs and those 7 600 foot lateral wells? No were really going to go through the end of year reserve process as far as EURs go.
But what I will say is that the EURs to this point are exactly what we forecast in our acquisition case.
So were very happy with the results at this point.
We think there may be some increases as we go through this process.
But Im not going to quote numbers until we finish the process and well have that year-end.
All right.
Thats helpful.
And I guess you guys also spoke about some enhanced kind of completion techniques more sands longer laterals on the Haynesville.
I know you spoke about increase in EURs but from refracs but I guess same question I mean are you seeing sounds like youre seeing improvement on the production side with more sand here and longer laterals.
Could you guys put anything out there in terms of quantification or help us out thinking about magnitude Ive got the best example I use is Shelby which I talked about a little bit in my remarks.
We previously had 1 Bcf per 1 000 feet of completed lateral and weve seen results as high as 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 feet of completed lateral in wells that were non-operated working interest partners in.
Now what were doing is were going to step this thing up and were going to make sure that were not overlooking but first step is probably a pretty confident will take this thing to 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet lateral.
We think there is an opportunity that it may go up beyond that.
So what weve done there weve increased our by about 50%.
Weve definitely done a more dramatic restricted flow back program were limiting our volumes to probably around 10 million a day but it is enhancing our EUR.
All right.
Thats really helpful.
Thanks for all the color guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens.
Good morning Will.
How are you? Good.
I wanted to kind of follow on the same path in East Texas.
You mentioned now may be taking up to 1.3 Bcf for every 1 000 feet or so and I think you guys mentioned about 6 500 feet of lateral so that would be about 8.5 Bcf type well but you guys are talking about youve actually seen results that would take you well beyond the 10 Bcf type well.
Can you talk about may be the well costs that you are seeing with the 6 500 lateral wells? Were seeing about $10.8 million to $11 million but thats fully drilled and completed thats the 6 500 foot lateral.
Got you.
And so to be on the conservative side just to echo your thoughts 8.5 Bcf is probably a good starting point at your end.
But were definitely seeing confirmation may be much higher than 10 Bcf at this point on those wells? Correct.
Were seeing that but well step it up appropriately.
Gotcha.
And then the other thing I wanted to hit on was the offer wells you mentioned that the wells had been tracking about in line with your original expectations for the tight curve.
How should we think about being the first seven wells really the first in the program I assume should we expect some productivity ramp in the remaining wells that you guys completed this year as you guys kind of got landing the wells down a little bit better and that sort of thing? I think what youre going to see is some reduced costs from those original wells.
And I will note that those original wells were really unit wells so you didnt have any depletion around them.
So Im not sure were going to see a ramp up in volumes but we definitely will see a wrap down in cost.
So were continuing to manage that program were continuing to ensure that were doing the right things.
We remain very optimistic about it were very encouraged about the results but think about those first tranche of wells just like you enter a new play remember an example I gave is we were 16 17 days from spud to rig release now were down to 13 in some cases 11 days from spud to rig release.
So costs are going to come down sort of in a proportional manner.
Now we are continuing to look at what our profit program might entail what our completion program might entail but there will be some changes as you go through a development program in an area.
Gotcha.
And I dont know if you guys have it handy but do you happen to have what the first seven wells are currently producing on a net basis or net to the partnership space? No I dont but you can kind of back into that from the number that we had 120 000 barrels that well be buying from those seven wells noting that thats on a net basis I think you know what our interests are etcetera.
Sure.
Okay.
Thats all I had guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hey Brian.
I wanted to follow up with regards to the Soto Parish that you talked about drilling 5 000 to 7 000 foot laterals into sections that had faults ranked through them.
Could you talk a little bit more about that and both the risks given the presence of the faults and the opportunity that you see there? Sure.
The fault sort of runs southwest to northeast and it bisects some sections.
And obviously if we were back in the day Louisiana had rags that did not allow you to cross unit lines or cross from one section to another.
Now the regulations allow that as long as you get concurrence from the mineral owners or the owners in both sections that youre going to look at.
So normally we would drill in 4 300 foot laterals in that dissected section that was bisected by a fault you may have only been able to drill a 2 000 foot lateral.
That is not economic.
So what weve done is weve gone back looked at the sections that are bisected by the fault looked at the sections that are adjacent to those typically north or south.
Then what well do is well set our pad at the either northern most point we can in the section to the north well drill across the section our geosciences tell us where the fault is so we typically do not drill into the fault we avoid it.
And so thats how we end up with the lengths that are 5 000 feet to 7 000 feet.
And its been done by ourselves now and its been done by some other industry partners as well we have some 10 sections that had limitations on the lateral links so were going to impact those 10 sections by drilling those cross unit laterals.
Got it.
And I guess unrelated to the lack of commerciality from drilling 2 000 foot laterals instead of something greater.
Did you see greater geologic risk because of what youre trying to do is because of the presence of the faults relative to No we do not.
We are very confident that we have the knowledge of where that fault is.
In fact we drilled the fault very near that fault I mean were in a good shape with that.
We dont have a problem with that Brian.
Got it.
And then on the acquisitions point do you think about the funding of that solely with selling of your borrowing base? We think about it both with the borrowing base and of course typically we do an acquisition that had a PDP component we could add to the facility with that.
So thats obviously an alternative.
And Ill be candid were not against looking for partners to help with some of that funding as well as long as we can maintain our operatorship.
Great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Your next question is from the line of Michael Rowe with TPH.
Your line is open.
Okay great.
Thanks for letting me back in here.
You bet.
I guess I just want to understand a little bit more about the fracs that you are doing in the Haynesville.
You kind of talked about the cumulative production received from that first well that you did the test on.
In terms of the 270 additional candidates that you expect that could use this refracs what timeframe do you think those could be execute on if you had unlimited capital? In other words are you waiting for a well to hit a certain maturity or you would consider doing the refrac and if so what time would that be? The way we came up with that number and youll note that we have some 380 390 wells in that area is that these are wells that are not involved in our most restricted flow back program.
What we did early on is we did manage our flow back we obviously had restricted chokes but of late weve restricted that more.
Now what were doing is were looking at the wells that we might have drawn down sooner and thats the first criterion that we look at besides what might be a refrac candidate.
Now we got to be candid were also going to look what the state of the well is I mean if there is any problem with the casing obviously that may cause some interference with the opportunity to do refracs but we will implement a refrac program based on the testing this year in our capital budget for 2015 whether thats 12 wells or 24 wells or some larger number is yet to be determined.
We typically are what I like to call a fast when it comes to technology were not afraid to go out there and try things but I dont want to go out there and get ahead of ourselves at the same time.
So will we have a program? Yes.
Is it going to be a pace program? Yes.
Might it increase with success? Absolutely because if we can continue to manage the cost of these things if we can cover the amount of lateral that we want to as far as stimulating the existing well bore this thing can provide some really outstanding economics can even present some opportunities that are at least competitive if not greater than the opportunities that we see from drilling wells.
So its a program that were going to continue to advise you on program were going to continue to implement but at the same time there is some testing to do before I can really get definitive as far as the number of wells were going to refrac next year.
Okay thats helpful.
And I guess may be just quick switching gears over to Appalachia it looks like the quarter over quarter decline was a little bit higher this quarter than you all experienced over the last year.
So I guess I want to say what was may be driving that decline? Then I guess more broadly can you talk about how broadly this asset fits into your portfolio today from a capital competition standpoint? There are some pipeline impacts in some of that production level so there were so negative impacts in being able to access certain pipelines.
Then we did have some repairs that were implemented during the quarter and typically youll implement those repairs before you get into the winter season.
So weve accelerated a little bit to that.
Okay thats helpful.
And maybe could you provide some context around on what youre trying to accomplish next year with the appraisal drilling? And I guess more broadly how this fits into Appalachia assets fits into your assets today given some of the exciting upside you got in the Haynesville as well as Eagle Ford? We communicated back in the spring with our board about what our opportunities might be in Appalachia and how that fits into our whole program go forward.
With the differentials that were experiencing as we do not have transportation on pipelines that weve locked in.
Were very restricted on what the price were realizing up there is so well get some $1.50 or so in lot of acreage lot of our production.
So we really really like a lot of our rock youve probably heard me say it before the best well we brought on the last well weve brought in our portfolio.
Its  in just under 12 months or so right at 12 months its about 2.2 or 2.3 Bcf it continues to produce right at 5 million a day at really strong pressures thats in Sullivan County.
So were going to test some acreage around there to both look for similar productivity and at the same time lock up acreage.
So its a combination of appraisal and hold acreage program that were going to get into next year.
Our big view is that it will probably take two or three years before we re-implement an active program in Appalachia.
We do think we have some 2000 locations that can light up when our prices increase again.
So excited about the opportunity its just not going to happen over the next couple of years.
There are better opportunities in the portfolio and what I will say is to maintain that future optionality its not going to take a significant amount of capital over the next three years probably in the order of $15 million to $20 million net to us.
Okay.
Really helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question is from the line of [Park Brown] with IM Portfolios.
Your line is open.
Hal a couple of weeks ago you guys had a long standing board member that was quoted to stay in the company as drawn interest from buyers will you respond directly to that statement? Can you confirm if youve hired any investment bankers to evaluate any offers and also just your thoughts on share prices? We have not hired any investment bankers to evaluate any potential offers for the company.
We are continuing with a very deliberate very rigorous process to look for the next leadership for this company and Im confident personally well end up with a good outcome for the company and for our investors.
As far as the share price like a lot of our peers weve seen some money exit this space and its impacted us accordingly.
I think that weve been disappointed in the outcome that weve seen lately.
That said we are going to maintain our deliberate focus on execution continue to manage our balance sheet and continue to position this thing so we can grow in the future.
But hopefully over time this thing will correct itself but it is a touch spot weve been in over the last couple of months.
And just as a little follow up considering the large short position thats all in the stock do you know whether that the board members loan their stock out? And could you comment as to how would that either hurt or help protect shareholders? I have no knowledge of their action on their stock.
I have no idea if they loan it out or not.
You dont know if there is a board policy as to whether or not they can or cant? There is not one.
There is not one.
Okay.
Thanks for your time.
Youre welcome.
There are no further questions.
Ill turn the call back over to our speakers for closing remarks.
Again we want to give you our appreciation for participating in the call this morning and thank you for your interest.
Look forward to talking to you again soon.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes todays conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Amy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources fourth-quarter and full-year 2014 review.
[Operator Instructions] Christopher Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you Amy.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' fourth quarter and year end 2014 conference call.
Hal Hickey our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
You can access our fourth-quarter and full-year review slides on our website excoresources.com.
And we will refer to these slides by slide number during our remarks.
With us today in addition to Hal and Ricky are other members of EXCO Management.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Acts.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris; good morning everybody.
Got to note it's a snowy day here in Dallas so it's a little bit of unusual happening for us.
Thanks to everybody for you being interested in the EXCO conference call.
Were going to review results for both the fourth quarter and full year 2014.
We will get into the details of EXCO's operating and financial results in a few minutes but first I'm going to provide an update on recent efforts we've undertaken at the Company to position us for future success.
Turning over to slide 3 in October of 2014 we closed the sale of our interest in Compass Production Partners.
This sale made strategic and financial sense to the Company while it helped us streamline our corporate structure and operations.
We received about $119 million in cash and removed $83 million of Compass debt which we proportionately consolidated from our balance sheet.
We monetized our minority interest with relatively minimal impact to our adjusted EBITDA and this sale removed a higher operating-cost asset from our portfolio.
The cash proceeds were used to reduce the amount outstanding under our credit agreement and improve our liquidity.
The sale didn't impact EXCO's borrowing base.
Here at EXCO we've worked aggressively to reduce debt since closing on about $940 million of acquisitions in July 2013.
We've done this through non-core asset sales and a rights offering of our common stock realizing a total debt reduction of about $600 million through December of 2014.
This month we proactively worked with our banks and amended our credit agreement to provide financial flexibility to strategically develop our asset base while deferring a significant amount of our drilling inventory.
We removed the total consolidated-leverage ratio through September 2016 and added a senior secured-leverage ratio of 2.5x at an interest-coverage ratio of 2.0x and set our borrowing base at $725 million.
As of December 31 2014 we had pro forma liquidity of $586 million based on our $725 million borrowing base.
This allows us to execute our capital program and opportunistically pursue strategic acquisitions.
Our next scheduled borrowing base re-determination is in August and we are highly confident in the quality of the credit agreement that underlines our collateral asset base and thank our bank group for their continued support of the company.
In planning for 2015 we are focused on significantly reducing our capital budget which at $275 million is down roughly 35% compared to 2014.
This budget allows EXCO to maintain essentially flat production as you'll see when Ricky details guidance in a few minutes.
On the cost side of the equation we remain focused on reducing costs throughout the organization.
In 2014 we reduced G&amp;A expenses by 28% as compared to 2013.
In 2015 we realize fracture stimulation cementing production chemicals rentals and fuel cost savings among others.
We've reduced our employee headcount by another 15% and we're reviewing additional operating and G&amp;A cost reduction initiatives.
3 of our 4 remaining rig contracts expire during the year and this could provide additional opportunities for lowering our costs either through renegotiating rates or releasing rigs.
In December the Board decided to suspend the dividend allotted due to declines in oil natural gas prices.
We believe the shareholders of EXCO will be better served by reinvesting in our business rather than receiving a dividend.
The capital that would've been utilized for the dividend will help unlock additional value from our current asset base particularly with the development of the Shelby natural gas asset in East Texas in 2015 and beyond.
I'll note that in Shelby our returns exceed 25% and get up into the high 30%s on much of our drilling.
Turning to our assets our operational and technical teams are very enthusiastic about the upside that we provided despite the current commodity price environment.
As a result of our successful drilling completion program in the Shelby area of East Texas during 2014 we're going to be focusing our drilling efforts here in Shelby in 2015 to capture additional value.
Shelby has our highest economic natural gas drilling locations and even with our planned drilling of 22 wells in 2015 we still have approximately 230 locations to exploit in 2016 and beyond.
In North Louisiana we completed 6 Haynesville refracs of various designs all with positive results.
We'll be evaluating results of these refracs for several months noting that we have a large pool of candidates for potential refracs as we further refine our techniques.
We recently turned to sales of Bossier well in North Louisiana following our restricted flow-back methodology focused on pressure maintenance instead of production rate.
The well's performing in line with our expectations; and based on the enhanced completion methods existing in-place infrastructure and our ability to reduce drilling and completion cost we believe we may be able to develop some 300 Bossier Shale drilling locations in North Louisiana in the future.
In South Texas we drilled our first operated Buda well with a 9 800 foot single lateral in January and it had an initial production rate of over 580 barrels of oil a day.
That well's AFE was only $2.9 million.
So our economics look very attractive with payout expected within less than a year.
We had solid reserve growth for the year with SEC proved reserves increasing by 27% pro forma for the Compass divestiture.
Slide 4 has our fourth-quarter and 2014 operational and financial highlights that set the stage for our year-end reserve growth and our 2015 capital budget.
We drilled 28 and completed 37 gross operated wells in the quarter and averaged 340 million and 372 million cubic feet equivalent per day of production for the quarter and the year respectively.
2014 total production of 136 Bcfe includes 8 Bcfe from Compass.
Excluding Compass from 2014 results realizes production of 128 Bcfe or 351 million cubic feet equivalent per day net to the Company.
We generated adjusted EBITDA of $81 million for the quarter and $391 million for the full year.
Slide 5 provides detail on our year-end reserves.
SEC proved reserves increased by 140 Bcfe from January 1 2014 as production of 136 Bcfe and the sale of our remaining interest in Compass of 127 Bcfe were predominately offset by 168 Bcfe of price revisions 131 Bcfe of upward performance and other revisions and 96 Bcfe of extensions and discoveries.
Our reserves were positively impacted by the results of our successful drilling completion program in Shelby as we've noted.
The continued performance of 2 of our first unit wells in Shelby under our new completion and flow-back methodology resulting in increasing their proved reserve estimates from 1 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral up to 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral resulting in an EUR in excess of 10 or 11 Bcf per well.
Additionally our year-end proved undeveloped reserve estimates have increased from 1 per 1 000 Bcf to 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral which is our minimum target for Shelby wells to be drilled in 2015.
The 131 Bcfe of upward performance and other revisions included 67 Bcfe of upward provisions in Shelby based on this improved well performance.
The upward provisions also included 46 Bcfe from our Appalachia region based on a shallower decline than previously forecast.
The 96 Bcfe of discoveries and extensions were primarily due to 52 Bcfe from our drilling in Shelby and 26 Bcfe from our Eagle Ford Shale development.
We had 1.3 Tcfe of reserves at year end on a December 31 NYMEX price deck.
And $1.2 billion of PV 10 is outlined on our slide.
The NYMEX PV 10 value was impacted as the SEC reserves and PV 10 were based on $4.35 gas and $94.99 oil as compared to the contango NYMEX deck in the appendix that gets to $4.26 and $70.65 in 2020 with $4.50 and $72.50 terminal assumptions.
Obviously though the decline in commodity prices will impact our SEC proved reserves as we move into 2015.
Turning to slide 6 we've reduced our capital program to keep it aligned with our expected adjusted EBITDA and have 78% of our budget focused on drilling and completion.
We've reduced our average rig count from 7 to 4 as we've significantly shifted our commodity mix and drilling activity; with South Texas being cut very dramatically from 74 spuds in 2014 to 23 spuds in 2015 with our drilling program focused on meeting lease obligations.
We'll continue to monitor commodity prices adjusting levers around our capital program as necessary to maximize returns and manage cash flow.
Slide 7 gives more details on the capital budget.
We're focusing dollars on projects that produce attractive returns in the current commodity price environment add proved reserves to our portfolio and maintain high-value acreage positions.
I'll provide more detail on these points as we go through the operating areas.
You can see we're spending 41% of our operated drilling and completion dollars in East Texas in our Shelby area.
Also we're turning the sales of a significant amount of carry-in wells drilled in 2014 which helps us to achieve our flat production profile this year.
Now on slide 8 you can see a depiction of EXCO's 85 300 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana 84% of which are held by production.
During the quarter we operated 3 rigs as we continued our manufacturing program in North Louisiana.
We drilled 8 wells and completed 14 wells in the quarter in East Texas and North Louisiana combined.
We're currently operating 3 rigs in the area all in East Texas.
We have an extensive multi-year drilling inventory across this region with 10 years of economic inventory at current commodity prices and our current development pace.
Our core Holly position in North Louisiana includes some 29 400 net acres in DeSoto Parish and 9 000 net acres in Caddo Parish Louisiana where we had almost 400 wells that we operate flow into sales at year end across that North Louisiana region.
During the quarter we drilled 8 wells and completed 10.
We recently changed our completion design in North Louisiana where we've increased the amount of profit per lateral foot by about 50%.
And through choke management we've increased the level of rate restriction.
We've realized improved well performance as a result of these changes and this is an example of applying the lessons learned from our 2014 East Texas program into another area.
Now in the East Texas Shelby area that I've mentioned several times today we had 31 600 net acres with about 84 operated wells flow into sales at quarter end.
Referencing slide 9 Shelby will be the natural gas focus area for EXCO in 2015 and very likely beyond.
We plan to spud 22 and turn to sales 14 gross horizontal wells in Shelby in 2015.
The wells that we're planning to drill are expected to include laterals ranging from 6 300 feet up to 7 500 feet.
And our average AFE cost will be about $10.8 million.
Our drilling activity in Shelby will increase our proved reserves as we add PDP wells that were not categorized as proved locations at year end.
And we'll add spud locations and reserves to our asset base as we continue to develop this area.
We believe there's potential for additional upside in the EURs once we have more historical data from the wells we drilled.
Slide 10 highlights that in East Texas 160 of our 250 Shelby locations generate returns from 26% to 34% driven by their lateral links.
These returns are based on our current 1.3 Bcf per 1 000-foot type curve EURs.
So if we can capture some of the additional EUR upside we'll of course see improvements on these returns.
This is highlighted on the Shelby return sensitivity chart on the right of the slide.
Based on current capital amounts if we move from 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet to 1.7 Bcf per 1 000 feet our returns can increase from 26% to 36% for this 6 900 foot lateral well.
You can also see how the returns improve if we can reduce our drilling and completion costs -- something we've been successful with over time in our other areas.
In North Louisiana we have 65 Holly core locations that generate 30% returns and 133 Holly non-core locations that generate mid-teen returns.
While we're not drilling many wells in North Louisiana in 2015 when we do reinitiate drilling we anticipate being able to improve on the Holly non-core returns by drilling with longer laterals applying our current completion of flow-back methodologies and realizing reductions in drilling and completion costs.
Slide 11 shows our focus on base production optimization in East Texas/North Louisiana.
We continue to focus on multiple projects including re-fracturing of wells reducing system operating pressure with compression projects and installing artificial lift -- all to help manage or minimize our base production declines.
Over the past 6 months we've refracked 6 wells using various designs.
All wells had an increase in rate in flowing pressure.
So we do believe incremental reserves are being developed.
Our first refrac well was a 2010-vintage well located in a fully developed 8-well section.
This well had produced 4.8 Bcf before it was re-stimulated.
You can see the before-and-after performance of this well on the graph on the right.
This well was reviewed at year end by our third-party reserve auditor and was assigned 2.0 Bcf of gross incremental reserves.
We'll continue to monitor the performance of our refracs and gather data from other operators as well as we develop a long-term refrac program.
We expect future refracs to target incremental reserves of 2.0 or more Bcf per well.
And hopefully we'll achieve 30% rates of return at prevailing strip pricing.
In North Louisiana we're working closely with our midstream provider and expect to have full Holly field compression online in the second half of 2015.
We currently have full-field compression running in East Texas where we've been able to increase reserves in our PDP wells due to improved performance driven by reduced back pressure.
Turning to South Texas on slide 12 we have about 52 900 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil window that also includes additional upside into other formations such as Buda Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
The table on the bottom of the slide provides you with our average working interest by category on our producing wells at year-end and highlights that 149 wells or so are not subject to the offer process under the participation agreement and have relatively high working interest.
Now 13 of our recent wells averaged 24 hour IPs of 839 barrels per day significantly above our initial forecast rates.
We'll wait and see what commodity prices do before we get aggressive with our program down here.
As I mentioned earlier we drilled our first operated Buda well in early January and early results are very encouraging.
We also combined some Buda acreage with a partner and are participating in a four-well plan with very positive very encouraging results from the first 2 wells drilled and turned to sales there.
We'll monitor the performance of these wells as we evaluate our potential Buda opportunities and develop a plan for further delineation.
Slide 13 summarizes our operational performance across North Louisiana and South Texas.
We've demonstrated in both areas that we can drive drilling completion costs lower and believe we will be able to demonstrate similar performance with our East Texas campaign.
Obviously achieving these results will enhance our returns.
The map on slide 14 highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia where we have about 290 000 net acres approximately 157 000 of which are prospective for the Marcellus Shale.
With our 75% held-by-production position in the region we control much of the timing and the development of our acreage and our position provides future optionality with nearly 2 000 drilling locations.
We currently have drilled one well this year and plan to drill another in 2015 to appraise and hold acreage.
One well we have already drilled is offset to the best well we've turned to sales to date in Appalachia.
I've mentioned it before but giving you an update -- in the 15 months this well has been online it's produced 2.7 Bcfe.
And that's through year end of 2014.
Slide 15 summarizes the multi-year value creation opportunities I have discussed.
Executing on our 2015 capital budget should help bring these opportunities forward and enhance our net asset value.
With that I'll turn the presentation over to Ricky for the financial overview.
Thank you Hal.
On page 17 you can see how we've aggressively reduced debt enhanced liquidity from July of 2013 to year end.
We have simplified the organization through non-core asset divestitures and benefited from the commitment of our stakeholders via the rights offering.
Debt reduction is a focus of the current management team and resonated well with our bank group as we amended the credit facility.
Slide 18 highlights our debt and liquidity position.
By being proactive and amending the credit agreement we were able to suspend the total leverage ratio until the fourth quarter of 2016.
The senior-secured leverage ratio in our liquidity provides us flexibility around developing our asset base and pursuing strategic acquisitions.
The amendment also takes the place of our spring redetermination.
And our next redetermination is scheduled for August.
Based on the $225 million borrowing base as Hal had noted we had $586 million of liquidity at year end.
EXCO has no near-term debt maturities.
The $725 million borrowing base incorporates the current commodity environment and speaks to the underlying quality of the assets.
Slide 19 walks through our fourth-quarter performance as compared to guidance.
Average daily production came in at the low end of guidance.
This was partially driven by the additional rate restriction on the North Louisiana wells turned to sales in November and December.
As evidenced by the East Texas Shelby results the additional rate restriction maximized the wells' performance and were not contemplated when the guidance was originally communicated.
Realized natural gas price differentials were negatively impacted as the production sold on a daily basis was impacted by declining sequential prices during the fourth quarter and weaker than expected Appalachian prices driven by basis differential.
Oil and natural gas operating costs were higher than guidance primarily driven by direct operating costs associated with activities in South Texas as we connected wells to central facilities and other operational enhancements we implemented to improve the efficiencies of our production.
We do not anticipate these costs in the future.
G&amp;A was slightly higher than guidance due to the transactional costs associated with the Compass divestiture and other legal and consulting services.
We have outlined our first-quarter and full-year guidance on slide 20.
Average daily production is driven by the capital budget Hal spoke to earlier in the presentation.
We anticipate operation costs and G&amp;A expense to decline year over year with the sale of Compass and the other initiatives and cost savings that have been discussed.
On slide 21 you can see our current hedge position.
We have recently added fixed-price hedges in gas and oil for 2015 2016 and 2017.
Based on the midpoint of our production guidance we have contracts in place protecting 55% of our oil production at $86.56 per barrel for 2015 and 68% of our natural gas production.
The 2015 natural gas contracts consists of fixed-price swaps with an average price of $4.04 per MMBtu and 3-way caller contracts.
The 3-way caller contracts have an average call price of $4.47 a put price of $3.83 and a short put price of $3.33 per MMBtu.
Turning to slide 22 we have provided an update on the South Texas offer process.
We have made an offer on the first 7 wells in January.
One of the wells meets the return hurdles as well as the specific performance criteria as defined in the participation agreement.
The remaining 6 wells did not meet the committed well criteria due to the timing of artificial lift offset fractures and other factors and were classified as uncertainty wells.
The agreement is drafted in a way to ensure the engineers have stable production profiles in order for us to make our offers.
Our joint venture partner is only required to accept the offer for the committed well of approximately $2.5 million to $3 million.
They may accept the offer for the uncertainty wells; however they have the right to elect to decline the offer for uncertainty wells for up to 2 quarters.
We expect the offer and acceptance process to be completed and the acquisition of the committed wells to close during the first quarter.
There are 34 additional wells that are expected to be included in the offer process during the remainder of 2015.
The extent and timing of these acquisitions in future periods will be dependent on the terms and conditions of the offer process.
As such the number of wells acquired in 2015 may be lower than the 41 wells offered on which would have the effect of reducing our 2015 acquisition spending.
While the agreement affords us the opportunity to purchase PDP reserves at a fairly depressed commodity environment it brings with it a level of uncertainty around the timing of when the specific wells will be committed and we have not included the offer tranches for 2015 in our production or financial forecast.
Based on the recent well activity the ability to purchase PDP through the participation agreement and the potential upside of other formations we remain enthusiastic about our South Texas asset.
EXCO is prepared to execute on our business objectives.
In closing EXCO is well positioned for the current commodity cycle.
We have significantly improved our balance sheet and enhanced our liquidity.
As outlined in the slides we have an inventory and asset base to generate attractive returns in light of the current commodity environment.
We are strategically allocating capital have demonstrated we are an efficient operator and are leveraging our technical expertise to unlock the value across our portfolio.
Successful energy companies are built and managed to take advantage of the commodity cycles.
Thank you for your time this morning.
Hal and I would now like to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
I wonder if we can start on the refracs.
I feel like it's been a couple quarters we've been talking about whether or not this was actually pulling forward or adding incremental reserves.
It was good to see that you guys got 2.0 Bcf incremental on that first one.
Can we talk about how the subsequent 5 refracs have looked in terms of performance versus that first one? Were very encouraged Will.
We've seen some significant multiple increases when it comes to both flowing pressure and volumes.
We're going to monitor the data over time and this is sort of analogous to how we drilled 8 wells in East Texas in the Shelby area and we monitored the program and its results over the next several months and now we really think we've got a formula to move forward.
We had some result in that refrac that are better than what we've portrayed on the slide that we've shown for that one particular well.
That said we've got to look at data.
We have one that wasn't as exciting to me.
So it's a varied profile.
I think I'm very comfortable saying that were very encouraged.
I'm very comfortable saying that we will implement a refrac program at the appropriate time.
When we have got enough data and we've got the commodity prices where we want them to be and we've got a large inventory we'll execute on.
So very encouraged very excited we're not going to get ahead of ourselves.
Got you.
So at this point you'll watch the first call it 6 and then once you feel like you have enough data then we might have a program in place.
Yes sir.
Yes sir.
You're exactly right.
And then be mindful that with lower volumes this year it is a little bit harder to moderate unit costs.
Can you just -- I know you guys have made some strides on the G&amp;A front.
Can you talk about if there's some low hanging fruit on the LOE side or gathering at transport side that you could potentially target that may not be in numbers yet in terms of guidance but that you guys are working on that looks potential to drop those types of unit costs going forward.
Absolutely.
I noted in my brief remarks that we've gone and actually realized reduction in cost on several services some of which are capital related some of which are expense related some of which are both.
We've actually gone out to our service providers and let me just say that I'm a believer in a win-win type philosophy where we both need to survive through this commodity cycle.
And we've encouraged them to work with us to lower prices.
Within the first few days of going out to those 180 or so service providers within like I said the first few days we had responses from about one third of them.
We're seeing those costs come in.
There's some other costs where we've got contracts that will be running off and we'll obviously be reducing costs.
A lot of our chemicals are related to the price of oil.
A lot of our fuel usage obviously is related to the price of oil.
So we're seeing some declines there.
And I will say this is my opinion and I'm not speaking for everybody but I'm saying that we were relatively conservative in building into our guidance both on the LOE side and on the capital side on the cost reductions because we want to go into this in a way that so we're comfortable with what we're portraying forward is a realistic number.
I'm optimistic although not convinced.
But I'm optimistic that some of these costs can reduce very dramatically from what we're showing in our guidance.
So I'd say stand by.
Yes we could have built more in our guidance if we were more aggressive.
But I wanted to do it in a stepwise manner.
And I wanted to do it in a way that we feel comfortable working with our service providers that were doing something that's very realistic.
We will update our guidance over time as these costs come down.
Great.
I appreciate all the color guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
Your line is open.
You guys spoke about opportunistic acquisitions I guess in your prepared comments as well as your press release.
Is that something that's going to be above and beyond the acquisitions of wells in the Eagle Ford? Could you speak to that in a little more detail.
I'd say we've looked both in Eagle Ford and Haynesville areas for opportunities that presented themselves.
We like the returns in Haynesville as we've outlined in our remarks this morning.
We do like the opportunities in the Eagle Ford.
We're obviously going to look first and foremost in the areas where we are.
We have some teams that are looking at other opportunities albeit in the regions where we are but they may not be what I'd classically call a bolt-on.
If I could find something in Eagle Ford that was outside the black oil window that we thought could generate some positive returns I'd certainly look at that.
I'm encouraged by some of the opportunities we're seeing.
Whether it's in the Buda or the Bossier.
And I'd certainly look at acquisition opportunities whether it was additional leasing or whether it was straight up acquisitions.
All of those are very realistic opportunistic ideas that we have and we are actively looking at some of them.
Okay that's helpful.
I guess just in terms of production this year I just wanted to clarify something you mentioned in your prepared comments there.
Are you expecting sort of flat quarterly production throughout the year here? And are you guys kind of spacing your well completions out accordingly? I think we're actually going to see a little bit of a bigger ramp up here early in the year as we have a significant number of carry-ins.
I think we've got $60 million or $61 million out of our budget focused on some carry-in activity.
We'll have some carry-in activity that's going to give us some pretty good volumes here in the first quarter.
A little color I was looking at our Haynesville production from a couple of weeks ago.
And I look at our Haynesville production today.
And it's up some $25 million.
Which obviously you can't see in those numbers.
But it is a real number that's a very positive up as we've completed some of those carry-in wells.
So I think we'll see a little bit of an increase here in the first quarter.
And then some flattening out and such through the end of the year.
Okay that's helpful here.
And I guess just in terms of your Shelby result obviously you guys seem pretty bullish on it.
You've talked a lot about EURs at 1.3 Bs per 1000 foot in the PUDs and the reserve.
But you're hopeful that there potentially could be better.
Cold you give us a little bit more in terms of how much production data you have on some of these recent Shelby wells? Have you got wells that have been online for 6 to 9 months or whatever it is at this point that kind gives you that confidence? And what you think the odds are that it's going to be closer to 1.7 versus 1.3.
We have our own wells that we completed in 2014.
However we're partners in other operators productions and they have several years worth.
So we're confident that we can sustain these rates similar to the other operator.
Did you get that Leo? The wells that we operate we've had online for several months.
The wells that we participate in some of them have been online for several years.
So we've got pretty good data sets from down in that area.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Firnahn Kirman [ph].
Your line is open.
A couple clarifications on the guidance if I may.
First off the $275 million adjusted EBITDA guidance which would cover your CapEx budget that does not include any of the potential well purchases from the KKR JV.
So I'm assuming there is upside to that EBITDA depending on how many wells you end up purchasing.
And also for the August base re-determination those assets are currently not included so that should help with that as well.
Am I understanding that correctly? Yes.
Both of your assumptions are 100% correct.
And secondarily as I'm looking at the gathering and transportation costs as well as operating costs.
The fourth-quarter guidance that you had given that the costs have kind of exceeded those.
But even those guidance numbers the fourth-quarter guidance numbers were lower than what you're guiding to in 2015.
And I'm having a tough time justifying you having these cost savings that you're planning and those numbers being actually higher in 2015 versus the fourth-quarter guidance that you gave.
Does that mean those cost-saving initiatives are also not included in the guidance yet? No I don't draw that conclusion.
Let's take them one at a time.
On the operating costs a lot of those costs were driven by connecting the wells to central facilities as that process was undertaken in South Texas.
So we don't view those to be a recurring cost as we move into 2015.
G&amp;A very similar we had some costs associated with the divestiture of the Compass asset that we do not view to be recurring.
Plus we have the initiatives that Hal has outlined from a headcount reduction that's taking place in 2015.
As well as some of the limited costs from a reduction perspective that have been baked into the guidance.
However we have been relatively prudent and have not baked a significant amount into the guidance as we want to see those cost come in and have a benchmark before we put him forth publicly.
I understand.
Okay and then my other question was with regards to your investor presentation back at the late I believe December November timeframe with the Bank of America conference.
You guys had kind of said that the CEO search was coming close to an end if you will with potential news over the next few months.
Any update you can share with us on what's going on there? Is the candidate that you were hoping -- did he reject it or is the process ongoing? Or if you have any update as to what's going on there.
The CEO search is ongoing and it's in the hands of our Board of Directors.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I guess we talked a little bit about the 2015 guidance not including the offer tranches for the Eagle Ford JV.
So I guess one question is -- Michael could you speak up? We can barely hear you.
Can you hear me better now? Not really.
Is this better? Much better.
Sorry about that.
So I guess the offer tranches are not included in the 2015 guidance.
I guess my question is do you have any sense for KKR's desire to defer uncertainty wells for 2 quarters? And if not how often I guess will you provide updated guidance on your adjusted EBITDA production and capital spending requirements as we progress throughout the year? The thought is we're working through the first offer process.
It's being delivered to KKR in January.
So I think we will have a better sense for the way they view the uncertainty wells once we wrap that up here as we move through the quarter.
So I really don't have a view or have a sense for what their position would be on those at this current time.
And we will update the actual information each quarter as those tranches are closed.
So we will make an offer and close on it in the first quarter.
And those actual numbers will be presented to the public from an acquisition perspective.
And we will do that each sequential quarter to provide that information.
So you know exactly what period the fall in and what the underlying information is and what we receive from an M&amp;A perspective et cetera.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just wanted to ask you on drilling and completion costs and I guess maybe secondarily operating costs.
You're seeing some savings this year or early this year as rig activity has slowed.
I guess my question is what do you think the level of elasticity is in the drilling completion costs across the Haynesville and South Texas? So if we do see potentially a commodity price rebound later in 2015 and demand kind of picks back up again for oil field services how do you think that impacts your business? Drilling rigs themselves represent a portion of our cost.
And I think that the demand on rigs is going to be obviously driven by commodity prices.
We don't see a big ramp up in activity in the Haynesville.
As far as the elasticity in the price on the overall drilling I could see it down 15% or so up a similar amount depending on what the level of activity is.
We're counting on it going down and holding relatively flat.
I would say that we continue to manage certain aspects of this drilling that we control and we continue to see improvements whether it's in drilling efficiencies or drilling days.
One of the things that's very encouraging to me is that we're continuing to work with rigs that have been in our portfolio for a long time.
We're continuing to work with crews that have been in our portfolio for a long time.
We're continuing to work in areas that we understand.
And so we think we're well positioned both just looking internally and then looking relative to our competitors as far as what our efficiencies and costs are going to be.
I think we've got an opportunity to continue to lower costs as I mentioned earlier in my comments.
And I think that we have portrayed on one of our slides where we show at current costs of 5% down at 10% down.
I think all of those numbers that are portrayed on there are very real.
Those weren't just idly put in at 5% and 10%.
That's thought through.
And there's some opportunity to get down to those costs.
And I think that if prices were to rebound in gas we'll see.
But I think that if prices were to rebound I think you're not going to see an immediate uptick in cost anyway.
It tends to lag a bit.
So I think we're good for 2015 with our forecast and the conservative approach that we've taken that it's going to come down.
And I think that it will remain that way for the year.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And just maybe one last quick question on the Buda.
It looks like a nice IP right there for that amount of capital cost.
And so is that 580 day rate is that kind of 24 hours? That's a 24 hour IP.
Yes sir it is.
Any kind of preliminary thoughts on what the decline may be throughout year one I suppose.
It's early early days.
I mean that's our first operated Buda well.
Obviously were monitoring what's going on around us but I'm not in a position where I'm going to speculate on what the rates are going to be with our location and our designs.
But I am encouraged by the results.
By both our operated well and the non-operated wells we're participating in.
That's great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my question here.
Thankfully a lot of the issues I was asking about have been already addressed.
But just wanted to ask a little bit deeper here.
Going back to the refracs.
What sort of capital costs do you guys have to put in in order to sort of realize that 2.0 Bcf improvement? In that particular well we've spent somewhere in just less than $2 million or so.
I think that our target's going to be more in the $1.6 million to $1.8 million range for that particular design.
There's obviously different designs that we could use but for modeling purposes and looking at it similarly to the results we're showing on that one particular well assume a $1.8 million cost.
Okay.
I see.
That's helpful to know.
And also going to the offer process with the South Texas wells.
As these things come through I mean -- you're going to be producing wells right? So you are able to realize a little bit of a boring base bump to help with that but I think that the advance rate there is something like 65%.
How do you guys plan to deal with funding the remainder of those wells? So to your point you'll get incremental borrowing base as those wells are entered into your proved reserve category.
And as you can see we've touched on a little bit in the third quarter.
And obviously the price environment has changed a little bit which would have the impact of reducing the cost.
Our general view of the expenditure associated with those wells is well within what we would be able to finance from a revolver perspective and have that capital available.
And then you would get to your point around the 65% advanced rate on the banks price deck from your underlying borrowing base.
So our current thoughts I mean as you can see the first well that we've offered on is $2.5 million to $3 million.
There's 6 more of those in the first tranche and then we would have 11 wells for trade in the third quarter slide is to make up the next quarter's tranche.
So you're dealing with numbers that are very manageable from a company's perspective as you look at our balance sheet and liquidity where we stand today.
And if I can ask just sort of a broader question as you guys are looking at the wells which were most recently drilled I guess in the fourth quarter under that program.
Using the current price deck how does the IRRs on those wells look? Just bearing in mind all of the variables.
Let me -- IP rates compared to -- I'm sorry I missed the beginning.
What you said was hard hear can you repeat please.
Those returns -- this is Chris by the way.
Those returns are pretty attractive based off the information compared to the information that we put out kind of midyear last year.
So they're better obviously.
And what we're doing it's kind of going forward looking at tearing our curves across that portfolio.
But based off those results and the current commodity price strip you can be looking at returns up into the 40% kind of rate with current capital dollar amounts.
Just to make sure I understand this correctly given the cost of drilling a well today in that area and using the current commodity price curve which I think is somewhere about for their oil $50 to $60 a barrel.
You think you guys can get about a 40% IRR? Yes we can get 40% plus returns on those highest wells.
Okay on the highest wells.
But what about on average or I guess I should say maybe on the typical well? Is that still in that ballpark? Or where are we looking at.
You know again as I mentioned earlier we're working through the process.
We're tearing up the acreage.
The highest wells we have are in the 40%-ish kind of range and then they drop down from there more into the 20%-ish kind of range.
I think the takeaway as we look at it for 2015 and were aligned with our partners is obviously do what's necessary to hold the acreage.
We think it's extremely valuable.
We're encouraged as I have mentioned in my prepared remarks about the results of the more recent wells.
Based on what the operational team has focused on we think the returns are extremely attractive.
As you know the Eagle Ford is a lower-cost environment than some of the other oil basins.
And we'll work through that as we get through 2015.
But our general view is try to defer as much of those locations as possible until commodity prices improve.
And that's the way we've built the 2015 budget and the way we're stepping through the first half of 2015.
Okay so just a final question on that before I move on.
As far as thinking about tearing up the acreage do you guys think you'll still be able to maintain that current pace? I think it's something like 11 or 12 wells per quarter utilizing the higher-quality acreage? Do you have enough inventory to carry that forward for a couple of years.
We have a significant amount of acreage.
As we tear it we think we'll end up in that higher-quality tier.
But we're working through that now and be in a position to present that as we have a little more data and have the benefit of having the third-party engineers and various people comment on that and get back to the street.
And we have that information prepared but I think a lot of that initial acreage that we up acquired from Chesapeake will fit in at higher tier bucket.
At the current pace of drilling we have several years of inventory that we could drill.
With economic or very attractive returns right? Economic and very attractive returns.
Great.
At current commodity prices.
But like Ricky said we're going to wait before we got more aggressive with this program until commodity prices increase.
And we firmly believe that oil prices will increase at some point in the future.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I'll get back in the queue.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Colin Wilson-Murphy.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks for taking my question.
My first question is a clarification.
Given the fact that you reduced your CapEx program to keep it aligned with expected adjusted EBITDA in 2015 does this correctly imply that you anticipate out spending free cash flow by call it $100 million in 2015? That's certainly prior to factoring in any changes in working capital and cash taxes.
I think $80 million to $100 million is a fair estimate as you look at that.
Yes.
Okay thank you.
And then if we turn to slide 14 the Appalachia slide it's certainly apparent that you maintain your optionality with minimal cost to carry.
Would you consider divesting this particular presence to further delever and further add emphasis to your slide 17? There's definitely some value to be discussed about holding it in the future optionality.
There's definitely some value to be discussed about divesting certain assets.
There is some potential discussions that we could have that may consider portions of that.
And the Board because they lack the optionality may want to defer any of those sorts of discussions until later.
But it's always a possibility.
Anything that we have in our asset portfolio could potentially be for sale.
Whether it's our core area in North Louisiana or whether it's our Appalachia region or whether it's our position in Eagle Ford.
We're in this thing to create value for our shareholders.
And if we think that's the right way to create value for our shareholders we'll certainly consider any of those options.
But yes.
We do like the optionality but there is definitely a conversation to be had around what's best for the long-term goals of the Company.
Great.
Thanks guys.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
Hal Hickey EXCO Resources Inc.
- President &amp; Chief Operating Officer 75 Thank you everyone.
We appreciate your participation this morning and look forward to talking to you soon.
This concludes today's conference call you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shelly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO's first Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Christopher Peracchi Vice President and Treasurer you may begin your conference.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Shelly.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' first quarter 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide a our perspective on EXCO's results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
Also with us today is John Wilder Executive Chairman of Bluescape Resources.
You can access our first quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these by slide number during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time to time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning.
Thanks to everybody for your interest in the first quarter EXCO Resources' conference call.
I'll begin by introducing who is with us today.
Besides Chris and Ricky we have Lanny Boeing our General Counsel; Harold Jameson our newly appointed Chief Operating Officer Tyler Farquahrson from Financial Planning and Analysis and of course John Wilder who as we've announced will become Executive Chairman of EXCO's Board of Directors following our fourth coming shareholder vote.
Many of you are familiar with John from his prior successes as Chairman and CEO of Texas Utilities here in Dallas as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Entergy in New Orleans both of those proceeded by 20 years with Shell.
I'm really excited to be partner with John and his team from Bluescape which is Dallas based as we develop and implement a plan to lead EXCO forward and create shareholder value.
I want to personally welcome John and his team.
The experience and the insights will get from this group will truly benefit EXCO and its shareholders.
John has accepted our invitation to speak to you today prior to the company remarks.
With that John? Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</strong> Thanks Hal and thanks to all of you and good morning.
I can't tell you how delighted I am to work with EXCO's institutional shareholders board and management as executive chairman.
I'm confident that we can execute a successful turnaround and if we do we will have built a company together that is positioned not only to whether the current commodity cycle but also to retain significant optionality in a contango market.
We have a tremendous amount of work to do but we have already identified key performance improvements to address weaknesses that have impaired EXCO's relative performance.
This morning I'll cover three topics.
First I'll briefly describe my professional background.
Then I'll provide an early competitive assessment of EXCO and finally I'll discuss our near-term objectives for the EXCO-Bluescape partnership.
For those of you I don't know my professional career covers three distinct phases and includes three major restructuring and turnarounds in the energy sector.
The first phase spanned almost 20 years of Royal Dutch Shell and ultimately included the two biggest capital allocation assignments in company.
As CFO of Shell E&amp;P and as CEO of Shell Capital.
I then applied my experience from Shell in the second phase of my career when I led two successful turnarounds in the energy industry at Entergy and TXU.
As CFO of Entergy I oversaw over $10 billion of assets divestitures and investments major cost reduction efforts and security buybacks all of which ultimately helped the Entergy achieve 20% annual EPS growth and its stock outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 18 fold.
Next I'll led the restructuring at TXU.
We restructured a major bankrupt subsidiary several billions of dollars in shareholder litigations sold $6 billion businesses purchased 50% of outstanding securities reduced fixed cost by 30% and ultimately increased the operational earnings by 8X achieving the fifth best performance in S&amp;P 500.
In the third phase of my career as an investor and operator for almost eight years at Bluescape I've overseen approximately $800 million of new investments with 30% IRR.
I would like to now turn to a brief competitive assessment of EXCO.
I firmly believe EXCO retains key competitive strengthens.
EXCO is an experienced operator that's drilled hundreds of unconventional wells.
EXCO has improved its drilling performance by reducing capital spending maximizing pad drilling synergies highgrading leasehold and optimizing completion practices.
EXCO's East Texas and North Louisiana Haynesville and Bossier positions continued to improve and its knowledge of the South Texas black oil window can still create value even at $50 oil.
EXCO has reduced 2015 planned CapEx by 35% focused on its most economic drilling locations.
EXCO has also seen positive test results in South Texas Buda and North Texas Bossier and you'll hear more about those results today.
Although we have some strengths we can't deny the fact we faced significant challenges.
I will list five to you today.
Number one EXCO is highly levered.
The company's net debt to market cap of 72% and net debt to EBITDA 4.3x are simply not sustainable.
We have annual cash interest fixed costs of $107 million.
We must improve these metrics and that will take both time and ruthless execution.
Number two EXCO has underutilized gathering and firm transportation commitments of approximately $90 million per year.
Of this amount approximately $40 million isn't used at all.
This is a critical problem which will require commercial ingenuity to solve.
Number three EXCO's net drilling inventory is inadequate.
EXCO suffers from a lack of a high networking interest locations with a current average operating net working interest across the shale portfolio of 35% we're essentially a contract driller.
We need to reposition the portfolio to average 60% to 75% net working interest.
EXCO has a highly qualified operational team and needs more economic interest in its project.
Number four EXCO's drilling and completion costs are too high.
EXCO has made progress reducing drilling and completion costs but we still need to reduce cost by an additional 15% to 20%.
This is our number one objective and we will require lean manufacturing practices across the portfolio.
And finally EXCO's corporate G&amp;A is simply too high for its drilling program.
EXCO needs to book NPV from drilling of about 5X its corporate overhead.
Today NPV accretion is about equal to annual G&amp;A.
To fix this we need to improve both sides of the equation reducing G&amp;A and increasing the amount of NPV generated by drilling.
Turning to my final topic this morning Bluescape and EXCO have focused our near-term restructuring plan on four key areas: liability management portfolio repositioning cost leadership and risk management.
For liability management we will focus on boosting liquidity.
The capital markets currently provide attractive alternatives as we consider various options.
We will very closely examine all capital market solutions.
We have not ruled out any type of solution or any type of capital markets instrument or structure.
Like all good restructuring plans we're starting with our business plan and then we will design the financing plan to best fund it.
We will also attempt to restructure existing firm transportation contracts to reduce volume commitments apply offsetting production to meet volume requirements and reduce fixed fees by extending terms.
For portfolio repositioning we will explore the potential restructuring of the Appalachian Haynesville arrangement we have with the recent shale BG announcement.
We will also focus on the South Texas arrangement with our partner.
Although this isn't that crucial because we have a provision in the agreement that provides us the right to not allocate capital to that business if the realized price of oil is below $70.
We do not plan to spend any significant drilling capital under the AMI going forward and required lease maintenance spending should be minimal.
We will turn our attention and our capital to leasing programs focusing primarily in offsetting areas.
We have tremendous geological and basic knowledge in Texas and Louisiana.
We will highgrade near-term drilling opportunities and structure our development pace to retain valuable optionality.
EXCO's long-term success will require building a larger inventory of high NRI low breakeven oil and gas wells at attractive entry price and with a flexible development term.
For cost leadership we will continue to focus on improving capital and operating expenditures in Texas and Louisiana where EXCO has already shown demonstrable improvement in A&amp;P costs and drilling times.
Additionally we will look to rationalize G&amp;A as well as other costs with a mindset that everything is on the table.
We owe it to our shareholders to ensure we leave no stone unturned.
Finally for risk management we will review EXCO's current hedging program to ensure that our hedging policies provides risk structures that protect us in downside cases.
In summary I'm very excited to work with the institutional investors the board and Hal and the EXCO team on implementing this restructuring plan.
Realistically we won't achieve all of our goals I discussed and we'll continue to adjust our objectives as we go along.
But you don't have to hit every well to be successful and if we're able to improve performance roughly in line with what I've outlined today I firmly believe we'll be able to improve EXCO's valuations multi-fold.
We have an attractive portfolio of businesses.
We have abundant options in our current portfolio.
We have the ability to build low cost positions by leasing.
We have significant degrees of freedom in our execution path and we have the will to succeed.
The industry and EXCO are in a commodity down cycle from which other companies have successfully emerged.
We have extra motivation to improve.
We know that only the strongest companies will survive beyond this current commodity cycle.
Even companies like EXCO that are well run operationally can improve operations and improve them substantially.
The opportunity at EXCO is not unlike a personal rejuvenation.
We need to step back collect our thoughts and emerge with a crystal clear thinking about our strategic direction our business model and our execution plan.
And finally we need to be unwavering in our focus and relentless in our commitment to achieve results.
I am confident that the team in EXCO is ready.
And I look forward to working with them on behalf of all investors.
Now I'll turn it over to Hal.
Thanks John.
Now let's turn to our slide pack.
We'll start on slide three.
I reiterate John's comments that EXCO's focus will be on liability management portfolio repositioning cost leadership and risk management.
Regarding liability management we've enhanced our financial flexibility when we amended our credit agreement in February and we're now evaluating various capital structure alternatives.
The component of our portfolio repositioning will be to add to our drilling inventory in East Texas North Louisiana and South Texas.
We're continuing our emphasis on reducing costs across the organization whether the costs are drilling completion operating or corporate related.
We're well positioned in 2015 with our existing hedges and we're evaluating opportunities in 2016 and beyond.
We have a significant multi-year drilling inventory with over 800 locations with positive economics at prices that are either at or below today's current levels.
Our operating performance in North Louisiana and East Texas has been in my opinion top-tier.
Longer laterals increased profit and more restricted flow-back are working just as our technical teams plan for our assets in East Texas and North Louisiana.
We're realizing reservoir pressure maintenance and flattening of our production declines which leads to higher EURs.
Turning to slide four we highlight EXCO's achievements during the quarter.
We were successful on multiple cost reduction initiatives.
We reduced employee head count by 15% in the first quarter and excluding severance our cash G&amp;A expenses are down 24% from the fourth quarter.
We reduced drilling completion costs by approximately 10% and are in discussions with key vendors to realize additional capital and operating cost savings particularly as rigs and other services roll off term contracts.
We will continue to bring our costs down.
Production of 339 million cubic feet equivalent per day is up 7 Mmcfe per day compared to the fourth quarter as adjusted for the sale of Compass and was in line with the midpoint of our guidance.
In North Louisiana we completed our sixth Haynesville refrac and we have a large pool of candidates for potential refracs as we further refine our techniques and cost to improve our returns.
We drilled 13 and turned to sales 29 gross operated wells we executed on our 2015 capital budget which is $275 million is down 35% compared to 2014.
This capital level allows EXCO to begin development of our East Texas Shelby area while maintaining flat year-over-year production.
We're focusing our dollars on projects that one produce attractive returns in the current commodity price environment.
Two add proved reserves to our portfolio.
And three maintain high value acreage positions.
We'll continue to monitor commodity prices adjusting levers around our capital program as necessary to maximize returns and manage cash flow.
We generated adjusted EBITDA of $58 million for the quarter.
I must say our EBITDA was obviously negatively impacted by lower commodity prices.
Turning to slide five noting the organizational changes we've just made.
I'm honored to be in my new role as Chief Executive Officer and President of EXCO and I have an excellent executive team around me to lead the organization forward.
I congratulate Harold Jameson on his promotion to Chief Operating Officer.
Harold has been with EXCO since 2007 and most recently he was our Vice President of Development &amp; Production.
Before joining us Harold worked with Anadarko from 1991 to 2007 and during his career he had multiple responsibilities in technical and leadership roles including asset management drilling completions production engineering reservoir engineering economic evaluations and field development.
Harold is very results driven and he is a proven leader well qualified for his role.
Now regarding EXCO's agreement with Bluescape: John and his team have a demonstrated track record of increasing shareholder value in proven successful experiences in commercial and turnaround work which complement EXCO's strong oil and gas operating capabilities.
Bluescape's agreement with EXCO encompasses both an investing aspect and strategic advisory services with compensation heavily weighted towards building equity value obviously aligning them with shareholders interest.
Bluescape has agreed to invest $50 million in EXCO $50 million.
$10 million worth of shares repurchased from the company.
$40 million in the open market.
To me this illustrates a strong commitment to EXCO and an understanding of the quality of our people and our assets as well as optimism toward our future opportunities.
This partnership is a strategic step toward working through the current commodity cycle providing clarity as to who will lead our organization enhancing the value of this corporation and preparing EXCO for the future.
Slide seven provides an overview of our three operating areas.
East Texas North Louisiana accounted for approximately 75% of our production for the quarter and will receive approximately 70% of our 2015 drilling and completion capital.
Obviously this is our focused area.
As we look to grow EXCO going forward opportunities in East Texas and North Louisiana make the most strategic sense for us to develop.
You can see EXCO's ability to reduce drilling completion cost on slide eight.
We have demonstrated in North Louisiana and South Texas that we can drive our average days from spud to rig release lower while at the same time tuning our completion methods to maximize returns.
We will be able to demonstrate similar performance with our development campaign in East Texas.
To achieve these cost reductions we'll continue to be relentless in our efforts to become more efficient continuously improve our designs and methods and work with our service providers to lower our cost structure.
We must achieve these results to enhance our returns.
On slide nine you can see a depiction of EXCO's 85 300 net shale acres across East Texas and North Louisiana 86% of which are HBP or held by production.
During the quarter we operated three rigs as we drilled two wells in North Louisiana and then moved to begin our drilling program in East Texas with four wells drilled.
We have an extensive multi-year drilling inventory across East Texas and North Louisiana.
Our core Holly position in North Louisiana includes approximately 29 400 net acres in the DeSoto Parish and 9 000 net acres in Caddo Parish.
In North Louisiana at quarter's end we had roughly 410 operated wells flowing to sales.
During the quarter we turned to sales 14 wells that have for EXCO a high net working interest as evidenced by our 10.5 net well count.
These wells are key to maintaining flat year-over-year production.
We recently changed our completion design in North Louisiana where we increased the amount of profit per lateral foot by approximately 50% and through choke management increased the level of rate restriction.
We've realized the improved well performance as a result of these changes and this is an excellent example of applying the lessons learned from our 2014 East Texas program to another area.
Now turning to the East Texas Shelby area.
In East Texas Shelby we had 31 600 net acres with 84 operated wells flowing to sales at quarter end.
Referencing slide 10 Shelby will be the natural gas focus area for EXCO in 2015 and beyond as we have more than 200 locations to be drilled and completed in the future.
We plan to spud 21 and turn to sales 14 gross horizontal wells in Shelby in 2015.
The first of these wells was turned to sales just this week.
The wells that are planned to be drilled are expected to include laterals ranging from 6 300 feet up to 7 500 feet with an average AFE cost of $10.8 million down from about $12.4 million a year ago.
We continue to make significant strides in reducing our cost.
Our drilling activity in the Shelby area will increase our proved reserves as we add proved developed producing wells that were not categorized as proved locations at year-end and add PUD or proved undeveloped locations in reserves to our asset base as we continue to develop this area.
We believe there is potential for additional upside in the EUR once we have more historical data to incorporate into our type curves.
You can see on the bottom right of the slide that increasing our EURs from 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral to 1.75 Bcf resulted in almost 10% improvement in a wells IRR in today's commodity price environment.
Shelby has our highest economic natural gas drilling locations and even with our planned drilling of 21 wells in 2015 we still have more than 200 locations to exploit in 2016 and beyond.
I do want to point out that we're continuing to optimize our spacing and lateral links across the portfolio including in Shelby.
This will impact our number of locations but we will see improved rates of return in net present values with these changes.
In January return to sales of Bossier well in North Louisiana to begin our assessment of the potential to develop the North Louisiana Bossier shale using our current leading-edge drilling completion and flow back techniques is shown on slide 11.
This new well design has significantly outperformed our 2010 vantage Bossier wells.
Based on the enhanced method existing in-place infrastructure and our ability to reduce drilling completion cost we believe we can develop some 300 Bossier shale drilling locations in North Louisiana in the future based on 4 300 foot lateral lengths.
I will note that all of our Bossier locations we identified are held by production from other formations.
As I noted a moment ago if we decided to develop this opportunity using 7 500 foot cross-unit laterals and in turn adjusted spacing it will further enhance our economics as demonstrated by the breakeven natural gas price roll forward depicted on the slide.
Slide 12 highlights the success of our recent refrac activities.
Through January we refraced six wells using various designs and treatment techniques in both fully-developed units and single well units  it's a key point.
We've tested both fully developed units and single well units.
We saw on average 4X increases in both production and flowing pressures.
Now the key to a successful refrac is to develop a technical cost effective design that re-stimulates the most footage across the lateral length.
This requires an appropriate diverting agent.
Services providers are continuing to work on refining such a program.
Tracers and pressure monitoring indicate we've improved our diverting technique but there remains room for additional enhancement.
We will continue to monitor the performance of our refracs gather data from other operators and develop our long-term refrac program.
We expect future refracs to target incremental reserves of two or more Bcf per well and a greater than 20% ROR at prevailing strip pricing with a 25% EUR improvement.
With cost improvements our rates of return should exceed 30%.
Turning to South Texas on slide 13 we have approximately 53 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford oil window that also includes additional upside in other formations including Buda Austin Chalk and Pearsall.
During the first quarter we drilled seven horizontal wells and turned to sales 15 wells.
Moving forward we expect significantly reduce spending in our AMI area.
As John noted we're not required to drill at current oil prices so we'll only spend drilling dollars here that meets certain leasehold obligations.
Turning to the Buda we drilled our first operated Buda well with a 9 800 foot single lateral in January.
We had an IP rate 24-hour of over 580 barrels of oil per day and the well was still producing 435 barrels per day at quarter end.
Based on this success we're currently drilling an additional Buda well.
Assuming a successful second well we expect to drill two additional Buda wells later in the year as we swap out of some lower working interest drilling.
We'll monitor the performance of these wells as we evaluate future potential Buda locations and develop a plan for further delineation.
The map on slide 14 highlights our broad acreage position in Appalachia where we have approximately 290 000 net acres some 150 000 of which are prospective for the Marcellus shale.
With our 75% held by production position in the region we control much of the timing of the development of our acreage and our position provides future optionality with nearly 2 000 map drilling locations.
We've drilled one well and expected to drill another during 2015 to appraise and hold acreage.
With the one well already drilled offset to the best well we have turned to sales to-date in our Appalachia region.
But let's be candid our Appalachia development remains on hold as our price realizations in the region are unacceptable.
I'll now turn the presentation over to Ricky Burnett for the financial overview.
Ricky? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks Hal.
Slide 16 walks through our first quarter 2015 performance as compared to our fourth quarter and first quarter of 2014.
Average daily production came in essentially flat as compared to the fourth quarter.
However when you remove the impact of the MLP we previously owned a 25% interest in production increased sequentially by 7 million per day.
We saw savings in lease operating expenses as they decrease by approximately $1 million from the fourth quarter and are confident we will see further reductions as we move into the second quarter.
We have seen declines in production and ad valorem taxes consistent with the decline in commodity prices.
As discussed previously by both John and Hal we have made cost reductions a strategic focus which is paramount to the success of the organization.
We're pleased to see a sequential decline in our G&amp;A cost of approximately $24 million when you exclude this one-time severance cost and 31% from the first quarter of 2014.
However we recognized there is significant work to be done on all costs inclusive of G&amp;A which have to be lower to compete in the current environment.
Our cash interest expense were consistent with the prior quarter as presented on slide 19.
Slide 17 walks through our first quarter performance as compared to guidance and provides our second quarter and previously provided full year 2015 guidance.
Average daily production came in right at the midpoint of guidance.
Natural gas was at the high-end of the range primarily as a result of our East Texas and North Louisiana-based production outperforming our forecast.
The 2014 Shelby wells continue to produce excellent results.
This was partially offset by lower oil production as a result of additional downtime for the commissioning of the final central facility and offset frac activities.
Realized oil differentials were negatively impacted by a very tight LLS to WTI spread during the early part of the quarter.
Lease operating expenses were slightly higher than guidance primarily driven by items we consider to be non-recurring.
The retrofitting of flare stacks associated with acquired production facilities in South Texas hooking up wells to the recently completed central facilities and workovers.
G&amp;A costs including severance were below guidance due to the reduction in force and other cost savings initiatives around professional fees licensing and minimization of any discretionary cost.
I can't stress the point enough.
Cost curtailment is essential for the EXCO's success in the current environment and we continue to strive for improvement in this area.
Growth in average daily production in the second quarter is driven by our first and second quarter drilling and completion activities and we expect to realize lease operating expense  excuse me savings as previously discussed.
Our cash flow activities are summarized on page 18.
Our adjusted cash flows decline from the prior quarter primarily due to lower commodity prices.
Consistent with the design of our capital budget we utilize cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit facility to fund our investing activity.
Our capital expenditures of $103 million during the quarter are consistent with a significant amount of carry in capital and we remain on course to spend within our 2015 capital budget of $275 million.
We closed on the acquisition of three South Texas offer wells in March and paid approximately $7.5 million dollars or $29 000 per flowing barrel which we consider to be attractive M&amp;A metrics.
We have made an offer for the second tranche of wells in April which includes 10 wells for approximately $10 million and are currently working through the offer process with our partner.
As I will touch on the next slide we continue to have significant liquidity.
Slide 19 presents the highlights of our financial flexibility.
In February we proactively worked with our banks and amended our credit agreement to provide financial flexibility to strategically develop our asset base while differing a significant amount of our drilling inventory.
The amendments at our borrowing base at $725 million and incorporates the downturn in commodity prices.
Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is in August.
We're highly confident in the quality of the credit agreement's underlying collateral asset base and thank our banks for their continued support of EXCO.
We view our liquidity of $518 million as essential to the company's success as we manage through this commodity cycle.
Our liquidity is more than sufficient to fund our 2015 development program and initiatives outlined by John.
Liquidity will be at the forefront as we consider enhancements to our capital structure.
On slide 20 you can see our current hedge position.
Based on the midpoint of our production guidance we have contracts in place protecting 68% of our natural gas and 55% of our oil production at $86.88 per barrel for the remainder of 2015.
Our remaining 2015 natural gas contracts consist of fixed price swaps at an average price of $4.02 and three-way collars.
The three-way collars have an average call price of $4.47 a put price of $3.83 and a short put price of $3.33.
As outlined in John's prior comments we will ensure our hedging strategy is supportive of our capital structure.
In closing I would like to provide the following takeaways.
We have $518 million of liquidity and financial flexibility to strategically develop our asset base.
We have a significant inventory of economic projects in today's challenged price environment that are in advantaged geographic locations.
We believe there are opportunities to continue to add locations to our inventory through leasing and acquisitions in our core basin.
EXCO has historically demonstrated that we are an efficient and effective operator and are leveraging our technology expertise to unlock opportunities across our portfolio.
We have multiple upside opportunities that are not currently reflected in our proved reserve database.
Our hedging position provides near-term protection in the current commodity price environment.
Finally the state of the capital markets affords us the opportunity to transform our capital structure as we work with John and the Bluescape team.
As John articulated in the opening comments EXCO is an organization with challenges.
However our developing restructuring plan high-quality asset base and dedicated professionals coupled with the leadership of John and collaboration of the Bluescape team will afford us the path to create significant value for our shareholders.
I thank you for your time this morning and we would now like to take your questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Will Green [Stephens Inc.].
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Good morning Will.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hey Will.
Inc.</span></strong> So You guys have had some really impressive cost reductions on the well cost side specifically in the Eagle Ford in East Texas here recently.
I wanted to talk about North Louisiana.
You initially saw big reductions in 2011 and 2012 as you guys reduced drilling days.
And then they've been flattish at that $7 million level here over the last two or three years.
Is that a function of you guys applying more  or not necessarily more science but applying more into the well bore or is there some sort of technical limit there that's keeping you guys from getting those costs down further? And then how confident do you guys feel that you could actually start to see those costs come down even further than that $7 million level as we look out beyond just 2015? Will what you hit at is exactly right.
Our costs can actually go significantly down but what we decided to do is to put more proppant into the wellbore.
And so as we've upped the proppant we've increased some of that cost.
We've also continued to look at opportunities to increase the lateral length.
And so we can see cost in Holly going from $6 million to $6.9 million depending on what our lateral length is and our amount of proppant.
So no we still got efficiencies that we've driven into that program and we still have the opportunities to realize very effective cost in that region.
That said we're moving to Shelby because we're going to be adding reserves there.
We're going to be adding a lot of incremental value.
We still like a lot of our Holly locations.
What we're doing in Holly though is focusing more on the base.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And do you guys have a sense speaking on the base declines there the refrac program you guys gave a total estimate of recompletes that you guys expected could be in the inventory.
Do you have an estimate  are you far enough along to know what that total plan looks like this year on recompletes or what it could look like on a go-forward basis or do we still need some time on that? Sure.
What we're doing Will is we're gathering data from both our most recent re-fracs.
And the first one we did we completed in July of last year.
We've got several that have only been on 90 days or so.
And so we're gathering data from our re-fracs.
We also have an industry group that we're meeting with later this month to share data and we also have data that we've received from participation as a non-operating working interest partner in refracs.
So we've done a lot of testing on those first six wells I talked about how we've done it on developed sections where we've got multiple wells in a section.
I talked about how we've done it on unit wells where we just have the one well in a section.
We're seeing positive results from all.
We're seeing better work on the diverting agent which I noted in my remarks is very key.
All that said if you think back to what we did in Shelby last year.
We drilled eight wells we took a pause we evaluated data for six months or so and then we reinitiated this strong development program that we have a lot of confidence in.
So as we gather data it's very likely that we could do some more refracs in the latter part of this year and we substitute some of our precious capital from some of our other projects to do that.
We're very conscious of managing our capital spend this year.
That said I would fully anticipate a development program next year but the aggressiveness of that remains to be seen Will.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe [Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.].
Your line is now open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just looking through the slides here in your prepared comments you talked about there's potentially the opportunity to restructure the South Texas participation agreement.
But I also realize it's not receiving a lot of drilling capital right now and is not a core focus of you all.
So I just wonder given that lower commodity prices and reduced drilling activity do you feel less urgency to restructure that now or more urgency to restructure that participation agreement? No clearly it's an area that we're cognizant of.
We think there's some things that could be done there to make the arrangement better for both parties but as you look at the organization and the things that we're spending the majority of our time on that's not something that we feel an urgency to address now.
We're working on the capital budget and some of the other things that we're touched on in the remarks.
So that's an area that we continue to have dialog.
We think the asset performs very very well even in the challenged price environment but it is not something that's at the top of the list.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And you all maintained your 2015 oil guidance full year.
You had lower volumes in Q1 due to downtime in South Texas but I guess there is also some additional volumes coming from the wells you purchased in the Eagle Ford.
So is the buyout wells are those offsetting the oil miss that you all had relative to guidance in Q1? Or how should we think about your oil trajectory throughout the year? No remember when we put guidance together it excludes the buybacks from those offer wells the three that I alluded to in my comments.
The makeup to get to your full year guidance is essentially coming from the Buda production that we have and we're in the process of  we had drilled some wells with a higher working interest than were originally in the budget is those turned to sales.
But it does not contemplate the buyback opportunities from KKR in those guidance numbers.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just maybe last one if I could squeeze one in would be...
Sure.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Is there any way you can just quantify the impact of shut-in volumes and downtime in South Texas? I think you've provided numbers in the past on a quarterly basis so I was wondering if there's any way you could quantify that for Q1? I don't have that information in front of me.
That's something we'll have to look at the information and be back in touch.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Sounds good.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time.
The next question comes from Leo Mariani [RBC Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Could you talk about what your average EURs are in the Eagle Ford in terms of what your third-party reserve engineers were booking at year end? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hold on a minute Leo we're just digging that up.
I think we've got a range Leo and that range is from less than 400 000 to more than 500 000.
And we haven't come up with what I'd say is our absolute go forward number on that.
But as far as the averages but I would say it's as much is in excess of 500 000 and some it's below 400 000.
Hal do you have some more color on that? That's pretty accurate.
That's good.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Okay.
And are those the third-party reserve engineer numbers or are those EXCO's numbers? Those are third-party reserve engineer numbers.
Okay.
You guys obviously discussed enhancing liquidity at EXCO but at the same time I think you guys also talked about trying to increase working interest through potential incremental leasehold acquisitions or just outright acquisitions.
Can you kind of talk about those two which do seem to be a bit juxtaposed given that you'll likely have to spend some money to pick up new leasehold? We think that we can go out and buy some leases today at relatively low prices.
Frankly the market in some of the areas we're looking at is really down from where it was months and years ago.
And so we think it'll have a minimal impact.
We actually may re-tool some of our capital program to progress some of those.
So we're very conscious of liquidity.
We're also very conscious of increasing our net interest.
So I know it may sound like its juxtaposition with that said we're going to manage to that matter.
And so I feel confident that we'll maintain a significant level of liquidity and at the same time we will be able to grow some of our network and interest.
Okay.
Because at the same time it sounds like you guys are pulling back on Eagle Ford drilling here.
So I guess is that what's going to make room for that is essentially what you're saying? That is one of the opportunities for sure.
And when I say we're pulling back on Eagle Ford drilling we may not be drilling as much in the AMI but we still have a couple of opportunities down there both in the Eagle Ford on wells that are not subject to participation agreement we also have some Buda opportunities that we're going to drill.
And so  again Leo we're going to manage our capital.
We're going to manage our cash flow.
We're going to manage our liquidity.
And we're going to ensure that we come in with numbers that are appropriate for where we are in this cycle.
All right.
I think also in your prepared comments you guys talked about sort of utilizing the capital markets to help EXCO transform the capital structure.
Could you guys elaborate that a little bit more in terms of what options you may be looking at? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Leo right now we're currently evaluating all those options.
As you've seen the markets relatively receptive to companies similar to us as they've explored the capital markets and that's currently being looked at.
With John and his team and at the appropriate time we will back in front of the investors and walk through our thoughts on that topic.
Okay.
I guess with respect to the JVs with BG is there any change of control provision on those JVs with Shell purchasing them? At the corporate level no.
If there were an asset sale done yes there is a change of control.
Lanny do you want to elaborate on that? Vice President &amp; General Counsel</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean as Hal said at the corporate level at the BG level the answer is no.
We do have a pref right if BG were to elect to sell discrete assets or parts of a joint venture.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Vice President &amp; General Counsel</span></strong> Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Megan Repine [FBR Capital Markets].
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Megan.
With the lower activity levels in South Texas can you quantify your blended PDP decline there? VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Megan its Chris.
It's somewhere about the mid-20 percentage range.
Thanks.
And then you guys mentioned potential further service cost reductions from like rate contracts rolling over.
How should we think about the timing and how spread out those contract rollovers are? Some of our rig contracts actually roll-off here this spring some of them roll-off this summer.
We don't have a lot so spring summer and then there is one that extends towards the end of the year.
So we will be able to see some results here very shortly on the rig contracts and then of course some of other term contracts we're in discussions around as well.
Okay.
And then just one more question.
On the refracs since it's still somewhat of a science experiment as you're working with your service companies has there been any discussion on contracts that would have the service companies take on some geologic risk with the refracs? Internally no.
But I have read some of the results of  some of the press releases from some of the major companies out there.
So options such as that are on the table but we haven't had any internal discussions to that effect yet.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Sure.
And your next question comes from the line of Carney Hawks (45:12) your line is not open.
Just two questions.
The first is on the Shelby economics.
Can you just give us an idea as to what  do you have like what the 30-day IP is on those? I'm just trying to  I guess I'm not getting to your production numbers.
I'm just trying to make sure I'm understanding...
Sure.
How that works? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> What we're doing is under this restricted choke program is totally reducing what our former IP 24s were.
Now we're running it more like 9 million or 10 million a day and that holds relatively flat through the first 30 days.
And so the decline is really way way below what we've seen in times past.
So it's going to be relatively flat.
Harold you have some exact color on that? It seems like it stays relatively flat for a while.
10 times 365 gets you to 3.6 and you're doing a 3 Bcf so it seems like that implies a pretty low decline rate even throughout the whole year.
It is because we're really really working toward managing the pressure in the reservoir and so we're managing the restricted choke.
We're not worrying about high IPs we were really worrying about or trying to maximize our EUR overtime and our PV overtime.
Got you.
And then in terms of calculating that NPV and IRR what LOE assumptions are you guys using? It looks like you're using (46:36) 21.5% royalty.
It says NRI of 78.5%.
What are the LOEs? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> LOEs you're looking at about $0.05-ish incremental LOEs on per well basis.
Let us get back with you on that exact question.
So if you could call us later we can give you some color on that because I want to make sure I understand the context of your question whether it's LOE gathering et cetera.
There is probably (47:04) that we need to talk about.
Yeah I'm just trying to get the cost per Mcf.
So the assumption you're making that drives that NPV using the price deck you're using that's all making sure I'm on the same page with that.
Certainly we understand and...
Okay.
Let's follow-up on that.
That sounds fine.
And then in terms of your liability management it would seem that given your liens capacity and your equity you've got three areas you can focus on which is increasing liquidity terming out maturities or just reducing overall leverage.
Can you give any idea as to where the priorities are between those three options? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
In my remarks clearly as we think through it liquidity is at the forefront.
We think that's extremely important as we think through to the capital markets.
And so that will be the lens we start with as we evaluate the opportunities that are afforded to us.
Great.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from Sean Sneeden (48:02).
Your line is now open.
Hi thank you for taking my questions.
Maybe a quick follow up here.
You guys had talked about the current cap structure not really working at current levels.
What level of debt do you think is more appropriate to have on the structure at this point? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's the part and parcel to be putting together the business plan and that will be a point that becomes apparent as we work through the updated business plan.
Clearly the debt level that's on the company and the current commodity price represents the challenges.
You look at the fixed cost nature of those types of expenditures and that's an area that we're currently looking at and evaluating.
Sure.
You guys talked a little bit about capital markets being pretty open.
Obviously we've seen a decent number of second-lien deals being done here.
How do you guys weigh the ability to raise we'll call it somewhat inexpensive second-lien debt just with your current free cash flow deficit at current gas prices? How do you guys kind of think about and kind of weigh those options? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah and maybe a follow-up is I mean kind of the rule of thumb that we think about on the debt side is probably four times.
As we think about the deficit spending obviously the assets and the underlying value that they create are part and parcel to being able to deliver that message to the investors as you would look at the opportunity for lien to incur the second lien if you will.
And so that's something that we think the project speak for themselves as you look at the returns that they can generate.
We recognize that the decline in price presents a challenge that's also why we are doing a lot of things as Hal alluded to on the proppant and the lateral links that have the ability to increase the net present value of those wells and also help to offset some of the decline than EXCO has historically seen when they've had shorter laterals and more wells per section.
Sure.
That's helpful.
Just two kind of two quick things on the...
Sure.
Sure it would be as you think about the overall cap structure and evaluating the larger plans would you say that that will eventually incorporate the 2018 maturity? Is that playing at the forefront of the analysis? Or is it mainly focused on liquidity and shoring up that and the 2018s are a secondary thought? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Liquidity is the first lens in which we look at that.
We're clearly cognizant of the maturities of the 2018s and that's the item that will warrant the appropriate amount of consideration as we think about the options that are best for the company as we move forward.
Okay.
And then just lastly what do you think the total liens capacity is right now? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The liens capacity is around $1.2 billion a little bit of north of there.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Absolutely thank you.
And your next question comes from Joe Allman [JPMorgan].
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Hi everybody.
Hi Joe.
A question on the inventory inadequacy that you spoke about.
So just to clarify is your intention to just increase working interest in your existing areas? Or do you have thoughts to actually buy some inventory or get into some inventory in some other areas? We hope to plan to actually do some leasing and we do that in areas where we'd have high working interest.
We're going to evaluate what opportunities may come across our desk as far as acquisitions.
So we'll look at those.
We'll look at our restructuring programs and opportunities that may exist there under some of our existing joint ventures or partnerships and all things are open Joe.
I mean  but I'd say that we're definitely going to be looking at leasing some additional land like I referenced earlier.
Okay.
And then just to clarify that is that additional land in your existing areas or are you also including other areas outside of your existing operations? First and foremost we're going to look at our existing areas where we've got expertise.
I'm a big believer in you go where you're best and I really think that in East Texas North Louisiana South Texas we've really got some capabilities that we've really built up.
And so I would look first and foremost there.
Okay.
It's helpful.
And then just related to that can you just give us kind of your priority of your assets like what assets are going to take you forward number one.
Number two if you can just rank them for us? Sure.
Shelby first and foremost with the number of locations and the understanding that we have at this point I think is going to be up at the top of the list.
I think that certain areas of South Texas can provide some really really good returns.
We need to do some restructuring down there and get some additional lands.
But I really like South Texas.
Holly core has been a key area for us over time.
We think there is a real opportunity there from the re-frac position and while Appalachia has a significant amount of upside opportunity the price structure there the cost structure there at this point really puts it down toward the bottom of our list so we're going to look at some alternatives on how we can improve that or do something different with it.
That's very helpful.
And then on your CapEx budget for 2015 I know your CapEx budget is $275 million.
But when we factor in other stuff differences between accruals and cash how much cash spending do you actually expect to incur in full-year 2015 at this point? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well if you look at the capital was $103 million for the first quarter and if you look at the investment cash flow it was around $120 million from a carry in perspective.
So the capital budget was weighted toward the first half of the year and so I think that's a number that will be consistent to that $275 million as we worked throughout the period.
Okay.
So in other words  I am sorry guys.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> But just on a cash basis we'll be in a situation where most of the activity was front end loaded as we had articulated so you'll not have the same lag that you have in the first quarter between $120 million to $103 million of actual on a cash versus the accounting basis.
So I think it'll be relatively close when we get to the end of the year absent modification to the plan.
Okay.
So in other words the net cash used in investing activities for full year 2015 is going to be somewhere around $275 million in your view? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I think that's a good proxy for where we sit today.
Okay that's helpful.
And then in terms of the  going forward based on your current plan and based on your expectation for natural gas prices in particular at some point do you expect to not outspend cash flow? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Clearly that's one of the things that we are looking to.
That's one of the issues with the base decline.
That's one of the focuses is as we think about Holly as you recall we got the Shelby drilling plan to be in a position to generate those reserves and then working on the base decline in Holly.
A lot of that has to do around minimizing the maintenance capital that's required for this company.
And so those are currently things that we think through as we evaluate the strategic alternatives and the best place to put absolute capital dollars in the organization.
Okay.
Is there any period of time in the future in which you can point to where your goal would be say in mid year 2016 or first quarter of 2017 where you expect to be cash flow neutral where it would be realistic where you could be cash flow neutral? Or at this...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We're not at that point Joe.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We're still evaluating what our forward plans are and what our structure is going to be.
And so we aren't in a place where we can answer that.
But obviously that's a goal.
Obviously that's something that we're very conscious of and obviously that's something that I look forward to working with John and his team on.
That's helpful.
And then regarding the goal of under-utilized infrastructure and doing something with that what are the options there? There is obviously some options to talk to the transportation companies themselves.
One of the things that we've done recently on one of them frankly is we added term and reduced rate and that helped us significantly on one particular contract.
There are opportunities to see if other parties may want them.
There are opportunities to drill.
There are opportunities to just be candid with the service providers or the transportation providers and open up some discussion.
So no idea is a bad idea.
We're going to go forward.
And again I look forward to working with John and his team on what some of those opportunities may present.
Got you.
And just very lastly corporate G&amp;A I know it's a goal to reduce that.
Now with Bluescape Bluescape increases the G&amp;A because of the monthly fee and then the annual fee as well.
So is there a realistic opportunity to reduce the base G&amp;A in a meaningful way? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> There is.
That's something that we're looking at and evaluating.
Obviously as you look at the trend of this company we've continued to bring down G&amp;A.
We absolutely have to continue to bring down the G&amp;A to be successful in the environment we're living in today.
So that is something that will take place.
All right.
Very helpful guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And your last question comes from the line of Steven Karpel [Credit Suisse].
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Probably for John  John you talked about in your opening comments and it's been brought up a number of times about leverage and total debt load on the company.
Maybe it's a two-part question.
One is if you look at your equity infusion why not do the full $50 million as primary shares to help with that situation in terms of leverage and add to liquidity of the company as opposed to doing 80% as secondary? And then the second part to the question is there seems to be a lot of discussion on this call around a second lien potential financing.
Doesn't that go counter to the same point about increasing the amount of debt potentially on the business? Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Steven the range where we ended up working out with the company was one in which we would have been comfortable buying the equity directly from the company for a whole set of reasons.
That just wasn't something the company was interested in doing at that point in time.
We struck this balance of $10 million primary and then the remaining $40 million in the open market.
So that was just a commercial outcome.
There's really no other way to describe.
In reworking the liability for the company we do have a lot of first lien and second lien capacity as Ricky mentioned that will probably being a key part of the solution to get liquidity.
But longer  or not even longer-term near-term we have to get the debt-to-total-capital in closer line to something that's realistic for a company that has the asset portfolio that EXCO has.
I think 40% net debt to total capital is a good way for you to think about where we want to end up.
I don't think we want to have more than maybe three times debt to EBITDA.
Rick you mentioned four but I think that's probably still too aggressive.
We're not going to get there overnight.
The way we  the key way to get there is to build equity value and the key way to build equity value is to drill good wells.
So we'll have to manage all these levers at the same time and get the company on a path to a more sustainable cap structure.
The cap structure the company has today isn't sustainable but we're not going to get  we're not going to get this thing solved with one big capital markets transaction.
It's going to be over multi-years to get us where we want to be.
So John so that we understand correctly then is there a willingness on your part now as the Chairman to be to do incremental equity to straight  to add capital directly to the company? Or does that need to revolve around acquisitions? Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Let me make sure I understand your question.
You're saying would the company be open-minded to issuing equity? Issuing equity just purely to increase liquidity and not around this specific transaction acquisition leasehold addition et cetera.
Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Right.
We're not taking any instrument or any structure off the table.
So that includes equity nothing is off the table.
We'll issue equity.
We'll issue debt.
We'll exchange debt.
We'll do second lien.
We'll do first lien.
I mean we are looking at absolutely everything nothing is off the table to design the kind of financing plan that the company needs to execute its business plan.
That's helpful.
Then lastly for me and I'll let things go  you obviously I suspect looked at a number of opportunities the last couple years.
Why was EXCO most appealing to you? I know you touched on it a bit but maybe elaborate a bit on why this was the one that you thought was the best opportunity.
Obviously there's a great asset base here but want to hear directly from you.
So thank you.
Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> It really starts with we like investing with companies and teams that we like and we enjoy working with and that we think are really committed to excellence.
And we really like this team.
We think they have the will to succeed.
A lot of that frankly is borne by a lot of disappointment a lot of underperformance a lot of kind of hard luck but often that is the kind of the setting that you want to have to really try to turn something around.
Secondly for us we look for opportunities that have a multi-dimensional restructuring potential.
Let's kind of put it that way.
We look for unique situations that require some commercial ingenuity that might not be required in the normal investing profile of an E&amp;P company.
So we look for situations that have financing challenges.
We look for situations that have commercial contracting challenges.
We look for situations that have kind of awkward joint ventures and awkward commercial constructs that we think we can add value to getting it fixed.
So what we try to do in these kind of settings and we just recently finished an investment very similar to this we like to try to divide and conquer.
I mean we will focus the Bluescape guys heavily on the commercial side and give the EXCO team the time and the concentration and the focus to run operations.
It's really hard to do a turnaround at the same time you're focusing on driving out cost and driving out production et cetera et cetera.
These guys need to be focused on the operations of the business.
They need to be laser focused on that.
So we'll take a little bit of their time and attention to attack some of the high impact commercial areas but for the most part we'll be working as a team and we'll take the commercial side let them focus on the operational side both of those will come together in an integrated way over time and over two or three year period of time we hope to have this business on solid footing.
Thank you for that.
Bluescape Resources Company LLC.</span></strong> Welcome.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Thank you everyone for your participation this morning.
We look forward to your follow-ups.
Have a good day.
Bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Heidi and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO's Second Quarter Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Christopher Peracchi you may begin your conference.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Heidi.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' second quarter 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; Harold Jameson our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide a our perspective on EXCO's results.
We will also provide some insight as to how we see our business evolving followed by a Q&amp;A session.
You can access our second quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these slides by slide number during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Now I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
Thanks to each of you for your interest in our second quarter conference call.
On today's call I'll discuss EXCO's equity and debt our improvement plan and our second quarter operational and financial highlights.
I'll then turn the call over to Harold to review our assets in detail.
Ricky Burnett will then review our operational and financial results and finally I'll close our prepared remarks.
Natural gas and crude oil prices continue to face significant headwinds.
The generally negative commodity price outlook is weighed on the market sentiment for small-cap E&amp;P companies and as a group we've been very negatively impacted.
But as we'll discuss further on this call we're amending our credit agreement with the re-determined borrowing base of $600 million pro forma liquidity of $368 million and the flexibility to pursue various capital market solutions as we continue to re-work our balance sheet taking positive steps for all of our stakeholders.
EXCO's common shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange and we're required to maintain average closing price of $1 or more over a 30-day trading period or we could be delisted.
Given where the shares are currently trading we may have to undertake actions to have the share price exceed $1.
One action that we could undertake would be a reverse stock split and if we do take this action our shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on a split which would be a non-economic event.
Unfortunately we cannot control the markets for commodity prices.
However what we can control are the decisions EXCO makes in its current commodity price environment and the execution of our strategy.
We're implementing our business plan getting back to basic for benchmarking to help us with managing LOE G&amp;A and where we spend our capital and building upon our strength and abilities which include drilling and completing economic well and enhancing their deliverability.
I'm confident we have that plan the assets and the people to transform EXCO as we move into the future.
But remember while we all expect and demand results in the short term the complete transformation will require time.
And our goal through the transformation and beyond is to create value for all of our stakeholders.
Turning to slide three.
I will provide an overview of EXCO's strategic plan that has 6 key focus areas with 10 improvement plan components.
Remember that John Wilder laid the framework for these in last quarter's call.
Liability management is our first focus area.
Improvement plan number one: we have the opportunity to improve our debt structure by potentially issuing term debt to enhance liquidity and maturity and provide financial flexibility and stability and implement our business plan.
Improvement plan number two: we're working with our gathering and transportation providers.
We plan on utilizing our expected future volumes to reduce our near-term range by extending term and we're also reviewing other rate reduction solutions.
Operational performance is our second focus area and we have two specific improvement plans associated with this operational performance.
Improvement plan number three: improving our drilling and completion or D&amp;C performance will improve our capital returns by focusing on best practices D&amp;C efficiencies and leveraging service cost reductions.
Improvement plan number four: we'll continue to reduce G&amp;A and operational costs which will improve our corporate returns.
Our second quarter G&amp;A spending came in $1.8 million or 13% below our forecast.
Capital deployment is the third focus area.
Improvement plan number five regarding capital deployment entails making capital allocation decisions based on rates of return across the left and right side of the balance sheet to ensure we achieve the highest returns and best use of our capital.
As we drill we'll be allocating capital one well at a time and if we're not realizing the returns we need we'll slow down or as appropriate stop drilling until we can enhance our result and achieve our target returns.
Our fourth focus area involves risk management and the improvement plan associated with risk management involves executing a long-term rolling hedging strategy with 100% PDP and 30% PUD hedge targets to protect the principal invested and returns on the capital we deploy.
Hedging up to five years will allow us to protect approximately 85% of our principal.
Portfolio repositioning is our fifth focus area and improvement plan number seven involves creating value through the drill bit.
We'll no longer focus on acquiring PDP and we'll utilize proceeds from selling certain of our PDP as a source of liquidity per capital deployment.
Improvement plan number eight.
We need to increase our inventory of net drillable location through leasing an undeveloped acreage acquisitions in the areas where we have a competitive advantage.
A primary focus area for us will be in East Texas and North Louisiana.
Performance management is focus area number six.
And to support implementing improvement plan number nine regarding performance management we have employed a consulting group to help us with benchmarking as well as enhancing processes around accountability so we can achieve higher performance and deliver the returns on the capital deployed.
And finally I have improvement plan item number 10.
John Wilder serving as Executive Chairman and our board members with their significant equity position are aligned and will ensure that management is held accountable for delivering high performance.
EXCO and Bluescape developed this plan over the past few months and we've already executed with positive results as highlighted on slide four.
We're enhancing our financial flexibility by amending our credit agreement in connection with our semi-annual borrowing base redetermination.
Pro forma for the amendment we have liquidity of $368 million and the flexibility to pursue various capital market solutions.
In addition to further enhanced liquidity we're evaluating other transactions including asset sales to provide additional cash and financial flexibility to implement our plans.
We successfully renegotiated a firm transportation contract that result in annual transportation savings of approximately $9 million.
We increased our proved undeveloped East Texas Shelby Haynesville EUR about 15% from 1.3 Bcf at year-end to 1.5 Bcf for a 1 000 lateral feet today and we believe we can realize additional increases to our EURs.
We reduced G&amp;A by 21% from $14 million in the first quarter to $11 million in the second quarter and came in below the low end of our guidance.
We started implementing our revised hedging policy as we look to protect 85% of our new wells values.
We increased our 2015 capital budget by $25 million to pursue leasing opportunities and we've leased 11 000 net acres in Zavala County Texas.
We're benchmarking our performance relative to high performing peers and John Wilders and our board are actively involved in the oversight of EXCO.
We're working very well together.
And over this quarter we have improved our safety results with statistics better than the industry averages.
I'll now turn the call over to Harold to review our assets.
Thanks Hal.
The focus of my remarks today will be to walk through our assets and to highlight how our East Texas area will be the primary growth engine for EXCO.
On slide six panel one provides an overview of EXCO's asset base including land current drilling activity level production and reserves by area.
Our East Texas North Louisiana area represents 75% of our current production and is the key focus area in our development plan.
Shelby and Holly are operating areas within East Texas North Louisiana and then the Eagle Ford and Buda are located in South Texas.
Moving to slide seven we provide a deeper dive into our Shelby area located in East Texas portion of the play located in San Augustine Nacogdoches and Shelby counties.
The Shelby area is the most important part of our portfolio from a growth perspective.
Table one lists the key metrics of this area and the key 2015 development points.
In 2014 our team drilled eight key wells in this area with a modified plan that included more proppant more restricted flowback and longer laterals.
We've been  we were very pleased with these results as this modification was a breakthrough in performance.
Our 2015 program was then designed to replicate this success and our 2016 through 2019 plan includes the full development of this asset.
In the production plot in panel three you can see the impact of the eight-well program on our late 2014 and early 2015 production.
Our history of drilling and completion improvements in East Texas is illustrated on slide eight.
Our team has made significant progress in drilling efficiencies as highlighted in panel one.
And in fact two of our most recent wells in the last month have been drilled in less than 40 days.
That's 40 days from spud to rig release.
Panel four demonstrates our commitment to higher profit loadings as we are currently completing wells with 2 700 pounds per foot which is a major change from our historical completion methodology.
With moving to full development we fully expect to improve our cycle times.
The table on slide nine compares three of our wells in East Texas to wells drilled by two other operators that are active in the area.
We drilled and completed the wells in 2014 with 1 400 pounds per foot of proppant which represented a 55% profit increase over previous years.
These wells support our current third-party proved undeveloped-type curve EUR at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000 feet of lateral.
The offset operator tests in the area had been larger up to 2 000 pounds per foot and have delivered improved performance.
We are pumping more than the offset operators on wells we are currently completing at 2 700 pounds per foot and our expectation is that this will further improve our well results and EURs.
Slide 10 demonstrates the improvements in EURs that we have already realized in East Texas.
We use productivity index versus cumulative production to measure productivity of rate restricted wells and grade well performance.
The chart illustrates the evolution in East Texas for EXCO.
The three curves in panel two represent three generations of completions.
The yellow curve is 0.8 Bcf per 1 000; the orange curve is 1.0 Bcf per 1 000; and the magenta curve is one of our 2014 vintage wells with 1 400 pounds per foot of proppant and this well is booked at 1.75 Bcf per 1 000.
Panel three summarizes that increased proppant is working and improving performance.
Panel one on slide 11 summarizes the opportunities we are targeting to further improve returns.
The 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 in our development program is based on 1 200-foot well spacing.
We are currently booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000 on our proved reserves in the Haynesville shale.
Cost control and continuous execution are key to delivering the value of this asset.
The well cost and drilling time history is shown in panel two.
Panel three shows the movement from year-end 2014 proved reserves to Q2 reserves booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000.
Our planned target is 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 which is very achievable.
Plan four  panel four shows the improvement in IRR from the old design and cost versus the planned design that more than doubles the return to 33% based on June strip pricing.
Panel one on slide 12 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
The 33% return is our target and speaks to the strength of the opportunity with PV-10 of $5.3 million per location and a breakeven of $2.46 per Mcf.
Now we move to North Louisiana on slide 13.
Panel one shows our stats and the key development opportunities for the area.
We are not currently drilling in this area but when we do re-engage we will pump larger stimulations and change the well spacing to four wells per section or 1 320-foot spacing.
We have additional potential in the North Louisiana region that we fully expect to unlock with larger stimulations and longer cross-unit laterals.
We also have over 270 re-frac opportunities in the area and the entire Bossier layer to develop.
The chart in panel 3 represents the production history in North Louisiana which represents our highest developed asset.
Slide 14 highlights our North Louisiana well construction history increased efficiency and improved drilling times cost reduction initiatives and more recently increased profit per lateral foot.
My team is a recognized industry leader in the well construction and cycle times in North Louisiana.
And that statement is supported by the facts on this slide.
Panel 4 illustrates the improvements we are making on proppant loading in North Louisiana.
This is an area where we fully expect to generate additional value.
Table 1 on slide 15 lists some of the wells in the North Louisiana region that have tested higher proppant loadings.
The map in panel 2 shows the locations of these tests and proximity to our acreage.
Offset operator results located in the  to the East have demonstrated significant performance over time and we will discuss that on the next slide.
Slide 16 summarizes the opportunity for significant performance improvement with larger fracture stimulations in North Louisiana.
Chart 2 compares our 1 600-pound per foot completions in the Holly area to offset operators 2 700-pound per foot completed wells.
The improvement in the EUR is significant and the conclusions of panel three summarize our thoughts on this enhanced design being a breakthrough for North Louisiana that will improve the value of the asset and provide a basis to expand these applications to other areas of play.
Table one on slide 17 highlights the improvement opportunities in North Louisiana by increasing the profit loading and increasing our well spacing to improve value.
The waterfall in panel three illustrates how we increased our EURs from 1.6 Bcf per 1 000 at year-end to 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 at Q2 based on our well spacing change and larger stimulation zone.
We've almost doubled the return to 41% by making these changes as shown in panel four.
Panel one on slide 18 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Note that our planned IP with the larger stimulation is increased to 14 million cubic feet per day due to the larger completion design that provides more near wellbore conductivity.
This improved rate is consistent with offset operators in the play.
They're pumping larger stimulations.
The wells are still rate restricted but this represents a 55% increase in IP.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
Our target economics are strong with NPV-10 at 3.6 million colocation and a breakeven price of $2.55 per Mcf.
Moving to South Texas table one on slide 19 lists the asset metrics and key developments.
We've made considerable progress exploiting the Eagle Ford and have recently had success with the Buda.
We turned to sales 15 Eagle Ford wells with an average initial production rate of 672 barrels of oil per day in the second quarter.
We also drilled our second operated Buda well and it had an initial production rate of 520 barrels of oil per day.
Our first operated Buda well has produced 60 000 barrels of oil in the first five months of production.
We had our highest production rate since we entered South Texas in the second quarter and plan on drilling seven Buda wells and three Eagle Ford wells in the second half of the year.
Slide 20 shows our drilling completions performance in the Eagle Ford.
The main point to highlight is in panel one as we have demonstrated drilling time improvement while lateral links have increased.
We have made significant progress in Eagle Ford drilling by reducing our drill time by 50%.
We have done a good job of reducing our drilling cost as highlighted in panel three.
Our Appalachia asset is summarized on slide 21.
In Table 1 you will see that we are essentially producing the whole of the asset and preserve optionality.
We drilled an appraisal well earlier this year to follow-up on the best Marcellus well in our portfolio and to hold acreage.
We expect to connect this well to sales in early 4Q of this year.
There is potential for additional upside in the upper Devonian and the Utica.
We are monitoring the industry results and we'll maintain our land position that is 80% held by production.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ricky for the operational and financial results.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Harold.
Good morning.
I would like to highlight a few key points to investors before walking through the slides.
EXCO is a company that has a solid asset base.
However it is burdened with a challenging balance sheet.
One of the cornerstones of the transformational plan is liability management and improving our capital structure is paramount to the success of this plan.
We have significant liens capacity which presents an opportunity when coupled with the trading levels of our notes.
EXCO has pro forma liquidity that's $368 million after giving effect to our credit agreement amendment which is scheduled to close later this week.
We have been evaluating opportunities to improve our capital structure that will provide us with additional liquidity to overlay the timing of the development within our business plan.
We are cognizant of our stock price and listing requirements and management is working on a plan to address these issues.
In the meantime we are focused on things we can control including cost management and improving the performance of our assets as Harold discussed.
Turning to slide 23 it highlights our second quarter 2015 and year-to-date performance as compared to prior period.
Cost reduction efforts coupled with higher production resulted in a 19% increase in our adjusted EBITDA compared to prior quarter.
Average daily production increased 22 Mmcfe per day from prior quarter due to completion activity in our East Texas North Louisiana and South Texas regions.
We are also implementing rate restrictions and other operational initiatives to flatten our base decline.
We have now been able to increase production for two sequential quarters excluding the impact of our 2014 divestitures which is particularly impressive considering the focus on capital preservation and some of the unanticipated challenges including higher downtime as a result of flooding in Texas and Louisiana earlier in the year as well a third-party pipeline disruption in Appalachia.
Our new management team is focused on things we can control including cost reductions across the board.
This financial discipline was evidenced by our cost reductions in LOE gathering and transportation as well as general and administrative expenses compared to prior quarter.
We continue to challenge ourselves internally to drive additional efficiencies and are aggressively negotiating with vendors to reduce cost without sacrificing quality.
We are committed to continuing to evaluate and restructure commercial contracts in order to reduce our fixed costs.
EXCO recently revised a transportation contract in North Louisiana and realized the full benefit from this during the second quarter reducing our transportation expenses by $750 000 per month.
The company continues to reduce corporate spending which has allowed us to decrease G&amp;A costs by 30% year-to-date 2015 compared to the same period in prior years if you exclude the one time severance costs for our reduction in force.
Capital expenditures decrease from prior quarter as a result of lower completion activity in the second quarter.
This was consistent with the design at the capital budget over a third of our 2015 capital expenditures were in the first quarter.
We have seen some of our largest reductions from vendors and drilling and completion costs including reductions in day rates on certain rigs of up to 30% as well as fracture stimulation cost of up to 39%.
Also the reductions in fracture stimulation cost have allowed us to increase the use of proppant and still bring down the average completion cost as Harold spoke to earlier.
Slide 24 presents our cash flow results for the quarter.
Adjusted operating cash flow was essentially our EBITDA less interest and we were able to increase this metric by 25% compared to prior quarter.
Our investing activity consists primarily of cash payments for capital expenditures which exceeded our operating cash flows by $20 million.
This was consistent with the design of our 2015 capital program and was funded with borrowings under our revolver.
Turning to slide 25 which details our debt liquidity and key financial metrics.
With the credit agreement amendment our borrowing base is $600 million and we have pro forma liquidity of $368 million with no near-term maturities.
Our notes mature in 2018 and 2022.
Given the current market conditions we are extremely focused on maximizing liquidity and improving the strength of our balance sheet.
As Hal and Harold have gone over in detail we've been successful in improving our well results and driving down cost throughout the portfolio.
As outlined in the appendix our target returns where we are spending capital range from 25% to 46% and we believe there is further upside to be had.
We will balance our liquidity with the operation to generate very strong returns.
We are drilling in areas where we have a significant amount of experience which reduces the risk profile of our development plan our operational team has drilled over 600 horizontal wells and has a stellar track record for successful drilling and completions.
EXCO's future will be tied to the execution of its operation and technical expertise in the development of our asset.
This will allow us to continue to simplify the company.
We will ensure we achieve results that exceed 25%.
If not we will simply stop drilling.
The guiding metric will not be production growth or EBITDA but creating value from each dollar spent.
The returns will be significantly in excess of the cost of capital to finance this development.
The new management team with the support of the board of directors in Bluescape is focused on blocking and tackling in the fundamentals of business.
Our key credit metric simply must improve and will be addressed as part of the transformational plan.
Our long-term goal under the business plan is to have an interest coverage ratio of four times and reduce our leverage ratio to 2.5 times.
I fully understand that we have a long way to go to meet these goals but our financial model supports they are achievable in the long term as we execute on the underlying plan.
On slide 26 you can see we have delivered strong results compared to our guidance.
Despite some challenges related to weather and a third-party pipeline disruption we were able to deliver production above the midpoint of our guidance.
The pipeline disruption alone calls this to shut in 300 Mmcf of gas in the Appalachian area during June.
The largest single driver of our performance was the performance of the East Texas Shelby wells compared to forecast which further supported the improvements to the type curves in this region.
We expect a slight decline in production in the third quarter due to the timing of completion activities consistent with our drilling schedule and the original capital budget.
Lease operating expenses per Mcfe were slightly above the mid-point.
However this was driven by unanticipated workover costs on wells we did not operate and additional cost to repair damage to flooding.
We expect our third quarter guidance to remain consistent with the second quarter.
However we will seek ways to further reduce these costs.
These cost reduction initiatives include more efficient saltwater disposal; increased automation reductions in contractors; the lower negotiated price from vendors on chemicals rentals and fuel; the cost reduction initiatives we have been able to implement so far have allowed us to reduce our year-to-date 2015 lease operating expenses by 15% compared to prior year.
As I previously mentioned we have been able to execute cost reductions that resulted in gathering and transportation below the low end of guidance.
We expect gathering and transportation expenses in the third quarter to remain consistent with our actuals on an absolute basis.
However they will increase slightly on a per-Mcfe basis due to slightly lower production.
G&amp;A expenses were below the low end of guidance.
Our team has done a good job improving the efficiency and quality of their work despite fewer people.
In addition we have been able to effectively reduce cost with certain vendors.
We expect to continue to see the benefits of these cost reductions in the third quarter and expect the range to be slightly lower than the second.
Our full year guidance for G&amp;A administration expenses is targeting a reduction of over $10 million from 2014.
Overall we have delivered on our guidance in 2015 and our financial results remain on track to reaffirm full year 2015 guidance.
Our board of directors recently approved a $25 million increase to our capital budget to pursue leasing opportunities in East Texas and South Texas.
We acquired valuable leases in the South Texas region and have plans to drill on this acreage later this year.
Adding drilling locations through a low cost leasing program is a key component to driving higher returns under the plan.
Our land department is working tirelessly to locate and evaluate opportunities.
Finally we did not acquire any interest in wells under our joint venture participation agreement in South Texas during the second quarter.
Slide 27 details our hedge positions at the end of the second quarter.
We have 68% of our remaining 2015 natural gas production and 55% of our remaining oil production for 2015 hedged at prices well above the current market including an average natural gas swap price of $4.02 and an oil swap price of $84.
We planned to significantly increase the percentage of volumes hedged and the term of production covered by the hedges consistent with our updated hedging strategy.
We plan to enter into additional contracts for the long enough term to cover 85% of the value of each new well drilled.
We have started implementing this strategy.
We are confident that our current well returns will allow us to execute on our plan to generate significant value to the company and therefore we will hedge to lock in returns.
I would like to turn the call back over to Hal.
Thanks Ricky.
In closing while we're displeased with our current stock in those (33:04) prices we do have motivation and a strategic improvement plan in place that we're executing on and a significant shareholder (33:11) price represented on the board that's holding us accountable.
We have $368 million of liquidity and the opportunity to enhance our capital structure.
A significant number of our projects in geographically advantaged locations generate strong returns in today's commodity price environment.
We believe there are opportunities to continue to add locations our inventories through leasing and acquisitions in our core basins.
EXCO has historically demonstrated that we're an efficient operator and are leveraging our technical expertise to opportunities across the portfolio to unlock production and reserve value.
We have multiple (33:45) opportunities that are not currently reflected in our proved reserve asset base.
Our hedge position provides near-term protection in the current commodity price environment.
We look forward to our annual meeting on August 5 and the appointment of John Wilder as our new executive chairman.
We thank you for your time this morning and we'll now open the line for questions.
Your first question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning everyone.
Hi Will.
Inc.</span></strong> I wonder if we could start over on East Texas.
It looks like you guys are about 72% held by production.
I know you guys are really focused there for the remainder of the year.
Will most of the activity this year take care of the remaining lease expirations this year? If not can you walk us through how those expire how you guys plan to attack that? Harold? Sure.
The activity that we have planned our core jubble (34:55) area in East Texas were largely HBP'd there.
Some of the new acreage that we picked up we will have continuous development obligations on that acreage.
So the biggest part that is non-HBP right now we have to drill two wells per year to keep that position intact.
So yes everything we have planned in our current development plan -- we'll keep that acreage together and we'll develop it over time.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And you guys have kind of mentioned the hedge program trying to lock in as much of these returns as you can.
Can you talk to how far out you guys'd be willing to go at the current strip? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Will; it's Ricky.
The way that we're looking at it in the 85% number you'd look at a tenure of around five years.
You'd be willing to lock in those returns based on the operational success we've had.
So it's around a five-year term of the hedge program on a rolling basis we would look to execute.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And so at the current strip that's still the case.
I know it's been  the pricing has been down here recently.
But even at the current strip you guys feel comfortable with the returns you're making to lock in over the next five years? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We do Will.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate the color guys.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you Will.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Wanted to hear more about the future of the KKR agreement.
Obviously sounds like you didn't acquire any wells this quarter.
Did you guys offer to acquire wells and they sort of  did they turn it down? And how are you guys thinking about that agreement going forward? Hey Leo.
This is Hal.
As far as the offer yes we made some offers on the wells and the offers did not get accepted.
And so those wells going forward we'll offer on them again next quarter based on what the strip is.
We're not currently drilling on the KKR acreage as the realized price for oil is less than $70.
And it allows us to take a pause from drilling.
So while we still have an obligation to offer on wells that have been on production for 12 months or longer.
We are not drilling there.
We did not spend any money in the second quarter as you know.
And the way prices look it'll be hard to forecast that we'd be spending much money there at all over the next year.
Okay.
And just kind of longer term have you guys had discussions with them about potentially kind of renegotiating this deal here? KKR and EXCO have definitely had discussions about what the future might hold.
And when we get to a point where we feel like we can talk about that in more detail we'll be happy to Leo.
Okay.
And I guess just with respect to capital market solutions that you guys spoke of here.
Obviously your equity price is pretty depressed here.
And that you guys did talk about term debt.
My understanding is that's a pretty challenged market to get term debt done at this point as well.
Could you guys maybe kind of elaborate a little bit more? I mean I guess kind of you guys waiting for the bond market to sort of reopen? Or how should we think about it? It's a balance Leo between the amount of discount that can be captured and then the new money availability as you know.
And we'll continue to monitor the capital markets.
We're not going to rush to judgment.
We're going to monitor our liquidity position.
We're going to monitor the prices of the bonds and we're going to look at the availability of new money.
And when the time is right we'll enter the capital markets.
It's something we'll be very engaged in discussions on with our board.
We had a lot of expertise in these matters.
And so stand by we'll give you information with moving forward.
Okay.
And I guess with respect to the goals you guys laid out on the credit metrics here on the call here you guys talked about those being long-term goals.
I mean I guess I'm just curious as to if there's a timeframe you guys have put around that? Whether it's sort of end of the decade or how should we kind of think about those long-term goals.
We've got some relief in the credit agreement for going forward.
And so long term we think that we'll be able to get there in the next  what Ricky 18 months or so? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Leo as we've laid out the credit metrics it overlays with the business plan and it's something that we as we step through and Hal made the comment earlier we want to be very clear it's going to take time.
But it's a plan that transforms the company over a number of years.
It's not a short fix over several months.
But the important takeaways for the group on the call is there's a plan in place that we execute on that allows us the ability to be in a position to have those metrics.
That's why I thought it was important.
But I want to be clear the expectation is that that's something that will take a number of years.
That is not a fix that that will take place overnight.
Okay.
And I guess with respect to some of the cost reduction initiatives you guys talked about you kind of referred to this $10 million savings here but I think there was also some kind of wording and some of the materials you guys point out which said it was kind of $10 million per year.
I mean is there expectation that you'll continue to drive G&amp;A down further as you work your way into 2016 and 2017? And just similar question on the transport side.
Obviously it sounds like you got to deal this quarter to reduce it by $9 million.
I'm assuming you'll continue to work that over the next few years and maybe just  do you have any longer-term targets where G&amp;A goes from say $50 million or $30 million as you look three or four years out? How should we think about the ability to reduce those numbers? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Sure Leo.
Let's take G&amp;A first.
Obviously as a company we forecast that and provide guidance out through 2015.
That's why we've done so from a G&amp;A perspective.
We think the track record of new management to continue to bring down those G&amp;A cost allows line of sight.
We will continue to look for all alternatives and ways to bring those costs down.
So it's not a number that we will get to and be happy with.
We'll continue to drive efficiencies into the organization as we look at the portfolio and ways to do so.
So we'd use that G&amp;A number and then we will continue to challenge ourselves and be in a position to where we look for ways to reduce it.
On the transportation matter we did enter into an agreement that allowed us to have the reductions we spoke to earlier in the call.
And we're continuing to have ongoing discussions with other transportation providers for similar type of arrangements.
So that is an expectation.
It's laid out very clearly in the business plan that Hal articulated.
And it's something that we will continue to engage in that dialogue with the providers of the transportation agreements we have.
And I'd add that that's not only for the firm transportation providers but also for our gatherer.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess have you guys looked at bond buybacks at all at this point given where your bonds are trading? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Leo we've looked at and currently looking at all the options that would afford us as we think through the capital structure.
So that's clearly one of the components that we have looked at.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Leo.
Your next question comes from the line of Tarek Hamid from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Tarek.
On the  as you think about kind of moving to more of a drill one well at a time hedge one well at a time model.
Does it generally make sense to kind of just get off the borrowing base funding structure entirely or is that something that you think you can still support just given the reserve base? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We think there is the ability to leverage the borrowing base.
We're fortunate that the quality of our assets allows us to do so.
We have a very supportive bank group that we've worked with.
As we continue to work through the business plan we'll continue to evaluate the appropriate capital structure to put underneath that.
But that's one of the reasons is we had looked to the borrowing base.
We're comfortable with the size that it's at and the ability to maintain that size as we stepped into the future and use those funds to execute the plan that we've put in place.
So we think there is a component of the plan that makes some sense on the borrowing base but we'll continue to evaluate that and make the appropriate decisions at the appropriate time.
Got it.
And then just on the asset sale target of $200 million to $400 million I think you referenced on the slides.
Any color you can offer on sort of timing or process there? When should we be sort of thinking about that coming to fruition? First we're evaluating sale of certain of our PDP assets and timing-wise we could envision that happening as early as late this year.
Beyond that we're looking at some sales in the out years of certain of our assets.
And we're evaluating which one of those assets would best fit the sales criteria to allow us to meet our targets and at the same time continue our program forward.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Karpel from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Given the depressed stock price the asset or the equity first hedge that John Wilder of Bluescape was going to make will be a pretty significant portion of the overall share count or the overall shares in its early controlling stake.
Is there any desire or potential to renegotiate that agreement? VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Hi Steven.
It's Chris.
The initial share purchase is just a $10 million purchase.
So the other $40 million I think that you're referencing those are going to be purchased in the secondary markets so those are not primary shares issued by EXCO and that's consistent with how we described the deal initially.
Right.
I suppose I would say is that looking at the $40 million in the context of the current market cap was a pretty substantial portion of the total company.
Is there any desire upon EXCO to potentially change that structure in aggregate? At this point in time we still have our agreement with John and with Bluescape to go forward with $10 million purchased directly from the company and the $40 million in the open market.
The $40 million purchase can be executed over a 12-month period post closing of our transaction which will be after the August 5 shareholder meeting.
And East Texas I just wanted to understand the decline in the production how we should think about that in aggregate maybe between natural decline and other downtime-related issues and whatnot? In essence the 11% how does that break down? (46:15) this is Harold.
Our overall base declines if you look at it from a base perspective we're in the mid-30%s in terms of base decline percentage.
And then as far as managing our shut-in times and downtimes that is always in these drilling programs maintaining and optimizing our sequencing to minimize the shut-in for offset frac minimize the shut-in for rig operations moving on pads that type of thing.
That is always something factored into our forecast going forward.
And then finally maybe on the  maybe not finally but on the locations or the operational areas you've referenced Shelby as your  as the growth area.
Can you walk through given the review that you've done your location counts how you really think about that in terms of  I know you  at the end of the presentation gave some but how do you think about the location count and context of the opportunity set in adequate amount of inventory? Yeah.
In Shelby we actually have some 180 or so gross locations.
And with our current drilling plan that's obviously a several year development program.
So we've got quite a bit of inventory there.
On a net basis that 180 translates down to about 75 or 76 net well with a relatively good balance between the Haynesville and the Bossier which we believe to be of equal quality down in the Shelby area.
So we've got quite a bit of inventory to move forward.
We'll note that this is a key focus area for us to add inventory in.
And so we've got brokers looking at leasing opportunities and we're also going to look at any acquisition opportunities that might present itself in Shelby.
So while we do have good running room in East Texas particularly in the Shelby area we do want to add more locations and we'd like to add more running room there.
And then just along the lines there you've done a pretty good job lowering the CapEx per wells across the board but you maintained your overall CapExes.
Is that being conservative? Aside from the acreage obviously is that just being conservative? And then secondly with that what do you think about the overall level of liquidity to run the business here compared to where you are now? First I'm going to say we always have a focus on continuous improvement and while we've made some tremendous drives in bringing our costs down I think that for modeling purposes we're using the targets that we are  we're adding proppant.
So we're keeping  so in effect we're showing the overall cost of what we've been doing going down but we're going to keep it relatively flat because the additional proppant we're putting on the well.
So continuous improvement.
The benchmarking we're doing.
Continue to look at what the opportunities might be both with internal and external sources is a key part of how we're going to go forward.
Now liquidity is always a challenge.
In this particular environment it's a particular challenge.
We're managing our liquidity through the capital markets.
We're looking at what the opportunities are and ensuring that we have the best use of our capital left or right side of the balance sheet.
So we're going to continue to monitor that at this point in time.
We definitely feel we've got all the liquidity we need to run our program over this year and next.
And so we'll keep moving forward and analyzing what the markets provide us in doing the right things with our money.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden from Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning; thanks for taking the call.
Good morning.
Maybe on the liability management program.
I think on the last call you guys talked a lot about liquidity being...
Sorry could you just speak up just a bit Sean; I'm sorry.
Sure.
So just on the liability management program you guys said  talked a lot on the last call about liquidity being the primary focus for any capital markets transactions and I guess with the borrowing base redetermination being done would you say that you guys have  your focus have mainly turned to the 2018 maturity and trying to formulate some type of deleveraging transaction? Is that kind of the biggest priority for you guys? No.
I wouldn't characterize it as that.
We obviously felt it was important to be in a position to get the borrowing base in place.
We've historically had a good working relationship with our banks and continue to have.
So as we work through the redetermination as we think about approaching the capital markets we will still continue to have a balance of liquidity as well as the maturity and the overall value of the debt the bonds and where they trade.
So I don't want you to think that we've moved away from liquidity as we evaluate.
It's still a component that will be considered as we think about the right way to move forward.
Okay.
And so any deal that you guys are contemplating would likely bring in new capital kind of net to the business is generally what the goal is right? I wouldn't characterize it as the goal.
Obviously the capital markets continue to be in a state of flux.
And as we move forward we'll evaluate the opportunities and make the appropriate decision at the appropriate time.
So I want to leave you with liquidity is still something that we think about.
It's a guiding principle as we evaluate the business to the comments that Hal made.
But it's also something where we're cognizant of the current market for new money would be and the cost associated with it and it's a balancing act that we will evaluate at the appropriate time.
Keys for the company going forward are sustaining appropriate liquidity and cash flow as well as managing our debt.
Our board considerations could include debt exchange asset sales perhaps even equity issuance and as actions are taken we'll appropriately apprise you.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then maybe just kind of lastly on the asset sales goals.
I might have missed this but did you guys name any particular asset that you're thinking about monetizing for instance like Appalachia or is it just going to be a continued evaluation of the portfolio over time? We did not.
We're going to look first at monetizing certain of our PDP but we've not gotten specific as far as announcing which are those assets we're actually going to put on the market.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas from Baird.
Your line is open.
Morning guys.
Thanks for all the useful information that's been shared in this call so far.
Just have a couple of quick ones.
Just wanted to get a sense for  on that acreage which you guys leased in South Texas can you give me a sense there in terms of how much that acreage cost you guys? It seems about 11 000 net acres you said.
It's about 11 000 net acres and it was less than $1 000 an acre.
Okay.
That's pretty good.
And as well what's the working interest you guys would be acquiring there? Total interest.
Total interest.
Working interest; sorry.
Working interest.
I'm trying to get a sense if you guys are going to be the majority guys there or what are we looking at? 100% working interest.
Okay.
That's pretty good.
As well as what's the royalty burden there? It's typically a quarter.
Okay.
All right.
That's very good and very helpful.
And also just wanted to go back to that liability management piece of things.
You guys highlighted that you wanted to gain additional flexibility.
So is that  should we then expect the lien capacity to become more in line with the restrictions we see in the bonds at the moment? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry; I don't understand your question.
Can you repeat it? Sure.
Sure.
I'm just trying to think about as you guys are trying to negotiate with the credit agreement lenders to increase your ability to issue junior lien debt is that revised credit agreement going to remain the limiting factor in terms of how much credit facility  in terms of how much lien debt could be in EXCO or is that going to now be limited to what we see in the unsecured bond indentures? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It'll be what the limitations you see in the bond indentures.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Simon Kerman (55:04) from ERW.
Your line is open.
My question has been answered.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I just wanted to talk again on the additional $25 million of leasing capital added to the budget this year.
Can you just talk about I guess the strategic rationale behind doing this given the stretched nature of the balance sheet? And I guess what is so compelling about the acreage in terms of what you're seeing in the additional 11 000 net acres in South Texas? Because it does seem like you're optimistic about the Buda acreage there.
So just wanted to see if you could talk a little bit more about that.
Sure.
The acreage we're targeting acquiring is in location  has locations in it that generate returns that far exceed the cost of our capital.
Now we're always going to be balancing capital spend liquidity cash flows.
But we really feel confident that the acreage we're out acquiring is going to add net locations and give us additional running room for our business plan and to meet our ultimate goals.
So we're going to manage our capital.
We're being forthright around the spending that we're targeting for this year.
And some of this is going to help position us for the longer-term transformation of the company that we've talked about in our business plan and in the transformation discussions over the last two quarters.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just last question related to this.
Given that the Buda is the highest rate of return in your portfolio today I wanted to see if you could talk about whether this program could attract more capital over time relative to the Haynesville or is the low capital intensity of the asset and therefore low net present value in absolute dollar terms a driving factor as well? Thanks.
The Buda is very very early from this company's position in its development.
We've drilled two operated wells.
And while we're very very satisfied with the results from those two you're looking at a comparison between the Buda where we've drilled two wells the Shelby where we've drilled nearly 80 wells to 90 wells.
We've got a lot more data there.
We understand what's going to happen.
The shale is very repeatable.
The Buda formation is going to take a lot more of technical analysis that needs 3D and the ability to generate the consistent returns in the Buda relative to what you're doing in the shale is yet to be determined.
So we're going to walk before we run into the Buda.
We've got confidence in Shelby.
And so that's where the bulk of our dollars are going to go.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
And just one last question.
Sure.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just going back to the Haynesville I just wondered if you could talk at a high level about whether or not you think you have enough data yet to determine how successful the refrac campaign is in the Haynesville or is it still too early? Sure.
We've as you may recall refracked six wells.
We also have the date on multiple other wells that we participated in and we also have data from third parties that have participated in data sharing with us.
It remains that the diverter needs to be improved so that we can ensure that we're treating more of the lateral than the industry has been able to treat at this point.
You'll recall that it's a one-time pumping job across the entire length of the lateral and diverter has allowed treating of one-third to one-half of the lateral length at this point.
We're working with service providers big name service providers to improve on that diverter.
And as that gets resolved or move forward it's going to enhance the opportunity for refracs.
We still feel confident in the 270 refracs that we have in our portfolio but we're not going to be refracking more wells this year.
We are looking at refracking in our 2016 plans.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of Gary Stromberg from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I do appreciate the color in the appendix.
It's really helpful.
Can you provide a 1P in a PDP PV-10 assuming that June 30 price tag that's shown in the appendix? Which 1P in PDP PV-10 are you looking for? Inc.</span></strong> Just overall for the entire company.
We do not provide out-of- cycle 6/30 reserve information.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And any expectation for the magnitude of the borrowing base decline in the first quarter of 2016 if prices hold as they are today  if strip pricing holds? No.
We don't have any indication from our banks nor have we made those forecasts on what that might be in the first quarter of 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then finally just on the amendment to the borrowing rates I assume that will be filed shortly.
What type of flexibility do you have to put in secured debt ahead of the unsecured notes? We have the availability the limitation would be the indenture as far as the amount and you've got the availability to do so.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the banks would allow unlimited second lien paper? Based on the limitations in the bond indenture that's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
That's all I had.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
We really appreciate everyone's participation in the call this morning and we look forward to talking to you in the future.
Thanks again everyone.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Steve and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the EXCO Resources' Third Quarter 2015 Review Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you Steve.
Good morning and thank you for joining EXCO Resources' third quarter 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; Harold Jameson our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's results followed by a Q&amp;A session.
You can access our third quarter review slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
I will turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris and good morning everyone.
We appreciate your interest in the company.
On today's call I'll discuss the progress EXCO's made on our strategic improvement plan as well as some recent third quarter operational and financial highlights.
I'll then turn the call over to Harold who will review some operations and assets and then Ricky will expand on our recent liability management initiatives and financial results.
Finally I'll close our prepared remarks and then we'll take your questions.
Natural gas and crude oil prices are extremely challenged.
Spot gas prices have been around lows we saw in 2012 with yesterday's and today's trading for the November contract seeing less than $2 before closing at about $2.09.
The futures currently doesn't get to $3 gas until 2019.
With the current commodity market as a backdrop those of us at EXCO must  we must continue our campaign to make changes to our organization our capital program our drilling and completion designs our overall cost structure and our balance sheet as we work through this cycle.
We've been successful making changes and improving as we execute on our strategic improvement plan as we outlined on slide three but we must do more.
We've been managing our liabilities reducing our LOE and G&amp;A cost refocusing on where we spend our capital and building upon our strengths and abilities which include drilling and completing economic wells and enhancing the deliverability but this commodity price environment presents challenges.
Now let me update you on our progress in the key focus areas of our strategic improvement plan.
Liability management is our first focus area.
Last week on October 20 we announced a series of transactions that enhance our liquidity reduce our debt and provide credit agreement covenant flexibility.
The transactions include a $300 million capital infusion from Fairfax our third largest equity holder and the repurchase of $577 million of unsecured notes for $291 million.
We effected these transactions through issuing $591 million of five-year second lien term loans.
The key takeaways from the transaction include: one our net debt declined by 18%; two we extended our debt maturities by 30%; three we increased our liquidity by 18%; four we improved our forward cash flow by $146 million; and five we relaxed our covenants.
We sincerely appreciate Fairfax's confidence in the company's ability to execute the strategic plan and this financing provides the company an opportunity to strengthen itself by investing capital in hard assets while we still maintain $234 million of secured debt capacity for future exchanges or issuance of new secured debt.
Other liability management initiatives we're working on include working with gathering and transportation providers to reduce near-term rates by extending term among other rate reduction solutions.
In the third quarter we renegotiated an oil sales contract in South Texas that improves our realized oil price.
Operational performance is our second focus area.
We continue to demonstrate strong well results in East Texas as we shift to development drilling in both the Haynesville and Bossier shales.
The East Texas wells we've turned to sales this year are outperforming our proved reserve type curves and we continue to work with our vendors to reduce drilling and completion costs and generate 20% to 30% wellhead returns in spite the limited Contango and natural gas futures.
Our third focus area is capital deployment.
We've demonstrated through our liability management initiatives that we're making capital allocation decisions based on rates of return across both the left and right sides of the balance sheet ensuring we achieved the highest returns and best use of our capital.
We stopped drilling in South Texas due to low oil prices.
We've been focusing our development program in East Texas and North Louisiana where we've been able to generate acceptable rates of return but we'll continue to monitor the economics in this area as well to ensure we're appropriately managing our capital spending.
Our fourth focus area involves risk management.
We did enter into additional hedges during the third quarter.
But with the current weakness in prices we aren't adding additional hedges at this time.
If prices don't improve we'll absolutely continue to adjust our capital deployment organization and cost structure.
Portfolio repositioning is our fifth focus area.
We can create more value through the drill bit as opposed to acquiring heavily developed assets.
We do need to increase our inventory of net drillable locations through leasing and undeveloped acreage acquisitions in East Texas and North Louisiana in particular as these are areas where we have extensive experience and we've developed a competitive advantage.
As we look at our portfolio over a multi-year timeframe we're targeting PDP and non-core asset sales as well as sources of capital to fund our leasing and acreage acquisition efforts.
Performance management is focus area number six.
We've benchmarked EXCO and are enhancing processes around accountability so we can achieve high performance and deliver returns on capital deployed.
Finally over this quarter we've continued to improve our safety results with statistics better than the industry averages.
The company has a year-to-date total recordable incident rate of approximately 0.7 compared to an industry average of 1.3.
Turning to slide four.
Here we summarize the progress we've made with reducing some of our fixed costs including liability management transactions G&amp;A savings sales contract improvement and renegotiated firm transportation.
But more work must be done to achieve our goals.
Restructuring our commitments and a leaner cost structure are absolutely key to generating long-term value.
Now I'll turn the call over to Harold Jameson to review our assets.
Thanks Hal.
The focus of my remarks today will be to walk through our operations in assets and highlight the importance of East Texas to EXCO's future.
On slide six panel one provides an overview of EXCO's asset base including land third quarter drilling activity levels production and reserves by area.
East Texas and North Louisiana where we have nearly 100 000 net acres represent 73% of our current production and is the key focus area in our development plan.
Moving to slide seven we provide a deeper dive into our East Texas area located in San Augustine Nacogdoches and Shelby Counties.
The East Texas area is the most important part of our portfolio from a growth perspective.
We drilled five gross wells and turned to sale six gross wells during the third quarter.
Panel three highlights the impact of those six wells coming online with the 30% increase in production for the quarter.
We recently completed a Haynesville shale well in Nacogdoches County with a total measured depth of 21 300 feet which is the longest well in our history.
The well has performed above expectations with an initial production rate of 13.1 million cubic feet per day on a 1 760 forced restricted choke with a flowing tubing pressure of over 9 800 psi.
The strong results of this well unlocked further upside as it is located in the predominantly undeveloped Southern area of our East Texas position.
We expect to complete our 2015 East Texas activities drilling six and turning to sale four gross wells.
Our history of drilling and completion improvements in East Texas is illustrated on slide eight.
Our team has made significant progress in drilling efficiencies as highlighted in panel one and we recently drilled a Haynesville shale well in 35 days to a total measured depth of 19 900 feet.
We have made good progress reducing our D&amp;C costs as highlighted in panel two and are pursuing further reductions.
We recently renegotiated a rig contract that resulted in a 27% reduction in day rate have realized a 35% reduction in fracture stimulation costs renegotiated other service costs and we will also realize improved cycle times and efficiency savings as we develop this asset.
Through all these cost reduction efforts we have lowered our East Texas drilling and completion AFE by 28% from 2014 while we have doubled our proppant loading.
Panel four demonstrates our commitment to higher proppant loading as we are currently completing wells with up to 2 700 pounds of proppant per foot a major change from our historical completion methodology.
The enhanced completion design will provide better connectivity to the reservoir and will enable higher flow rates with less pressure decline.
We've been testing these new designs over the last four months.
Slide nine demonstrates the improvements in performance that we've already realized in East Texas with these new designs.
Four curves in panel one represent the progress we are making with our East Texas completions.
The blue curve represents 1 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral length performance and the magenta curve is 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 performance.
The black curve represents four of our newest East Texas Bossier completions with the new larger 2 700 pound per foot design.
Our Bossier proved reserves are booked at 1.3 Bcf per 1 000.
So the larger completion size is improving well performance compared to our proved reserve bookings.
We will need more time and history but it's clearly  it's clear that there is significant improvement when you look at the curves.
The brown curve is our newest Haynesville 2 700 pound per foot completion.
This well is located in the Southern section of our East Texas area and is performing above expectations.
Panel three summarizes that increased proppant is working and is improving performance.
Panel one on slide 10 summarizes the opportunities we are targeting to further improve returns.
The 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 in our development program is based on 1 200-foot well spacing.
We are currently booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000 on our proved reserves in the Haynesville shale.
We are testing higher flow rates with these larger completions.
Our most recent wells have IP'd at 12 million to 13 million cubic feet per day with strong performance as a result of the larger stimulations.
Cost control and continuous execution are key to delivering the value of this asset.
Well costs and drilling time history are illustrated in panel two.
Panel three shows the movement from year-end 2014 proved reserves to Q3 reserves booked at 1.5 Bcf per 1 000.
Our planned target is 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 which we believe is very achievable.
Panel four demonstrates the improvement in IRR from the old design and cost versus the planned design that roughly doubles the return to 28% on September 20  on September strip pricing.
Panel one on slide 11 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
The 28% return is our target and speaks to the strength of the opportunity with a PV-10 of $4.7 million per location.
Now we move to North Louisiana on slide 12.
Panel one summarizes stats and the key development opportunities for the area.
We are not drilling in this area as we're currently focused in East Texas.
When we do re-engage we will pump larger stimulations and change the well spacing to four wells per section or 1 320 foot spacing.
We have additional potential in North Louisiana that we fully expect to unlock with larger stimulations and longer cross-unit laterals.
We also have over 270 re-frac opportunities in the area and the entire Bossier layer to develop.
The chart in panel three represents the production history in North Louisiana which represents our highest developed assets.
Slide 13 highlights our North Louisiana well construction history increased efficiency improved drilling time cost reduction initiatives and more recently increased proppant per lateral foot.
Panel four illustrates the increases we're making on proppant loading in North Louisiana.
This is an area where we fully expect to generate additional value.
Slide 14 summarizes the opportunity for significant performance improvement with large fracture stimulations and longer laterals in North Louisiana.
Panel one highlights the benefits of larger stimulation designs and longer laterals.
The improvement in well performance is significant and this enhanced larger design is a breakthrough that will improve the value of the assets and provide a basis to expand these applications to other areas of the play.
Panel two highlights some of the larger completion design activity.
Table one on slide 15 highlights the improvement opportunities in North Louisiana by increasing the proppant loading and increasing our well spacing to improve value.
The waterfall in panel three illustrates how we increased our EURs from 1.6 Bcf per 1 000 at year-end to 1.9 Bcf per 1 000 based on our well spacing change and larger stimulation design.
We have doubled the return to 48% by making these changes as shown in panel four.
Panel one on slide 16 lists our single well economics inventory and type curve inputs.
Our planned IP with the larger stimulation is increased to 14 million cubic feet per day due to the larger completion that provides more conductivity.
This improved rate is consistent with offset operators in the play that are pumping larger stimulations.
The wells are still rate-restricted but this represents a 55% increase in IP.
Panel two on the right shows an economic sensitivity to D&amp;C CapEx and EUR.
Our target economics are strong with a PV-10 of $3.7 million per location.
Moving to South Texas table one on slide 17 lists the asset metrics and key developments.
We have made considerable progress exploiting the Eagle Ford and have recently had success with the Buda.
We turned to sales two Eagle Ford wells with average initial production rates of 770 barrels of oil per day during the third quarter.
We averaged 11.5 days to drill these wells with an average total measured depth of 15 900 feet and we're able to extend lateral lengths up to 8 800 feet.
Well costs averaged $5.5 million.
We also drilled two operated Buda wells in the quarter.
The three total operated Buda wells on production have averaged initial production rates of 450 barrels of oil per day.
Our first operated Buda well has produced 86 000 barrels of oil in the first eight months of production.
We had our highest production since we entered South Texas in the third quarter and we remain bullish on our Eagle Ford and Buda opportunities.
Our acreage is 81% held by production providing us flexibility in the timing of our future developments.
Our Appalachia asset is summarized on slide 18.
In Table 1 you will see that we are essentially producing to hold the asset and preserve optionality.
We drilled an appraisal well earlier this year to follow up on our best Marcellus well in our portfolio and to hold acreage.
We expect to connect this well to sales in the fourth quarter.
From an outside perspective there is potential for additional opportunities in the Upper Devonian and the Utica.
The Utica play has continued to evolve and our teams have advanced some technical work to assess our position in the play.
We believe we have approximately 45 000 net acres prospected for the Utica.
The depth and pore pressure are very similar to our Haynesville asset and our operating team is well qualified to execute on this opportunity.
We are monitoring industry results and will maintain our land position in high-value acreage.
82% of our current land position is held by production.
I'll now turn the discussion over to Ricky for more details on our recent financial activity and results.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Harold.
Slide 20 provides an overview of our recent liability management transaction.
I want to emphasize we're extremely excited about these series of transactions but it is a simple step in a process that will take many steps to complete.
We still have unsecured debt capacity  excuse me we have secured debt capacity to execute the transactions to improve our balance sheet.
The flattening of future price commodities has stressed the importance of liability management as we move forward.
I'd like to outline the transactions.
Step one we issued $300 million of second-lien term loan to Fairfax and utilized the proceeds to reduce indebtedness under our credit agreement.
Fairfax knows the company well and is very supportive of our ability to execute our underlying business plan and the quality of our assets.
Step two.
We issued $291 million of second-lien term loan to noteholders in exchange for repurchasing $577 million of unsecured note.
This allowed us to capture a discount on the unsecured notes and reduce our consolidated indebtedness by $270 million.
We extended the average debt maturity from 3.6 years to 4.7 years representing a 30% improvement and reduced the 2018 maturity by 50%.
Step three.
We amended our credit agreement to reduce our borrowing capacity to $375 million in conjunction with the additional secured borrowings.
The transaction also favored  the transaction also triggered favorable modifications to our debt covenants including the reduction in interest coverage ratio from 2 times to 1.25 times.
We eliminated the total leverage ratio and changed our secured debt ratio to a first lien-only test at 2.5 times.
These changes allow us significant flexibility as we consider our future capital plans.
As a result of the transaction we improved pro forma liquidity by $60 million.
We still have $234 million of secured debt capacity for future exchanges or issuances of secured debt including $109 million of second lien capacity.
Panel three highlights the cash  the forward cash flow by $146 million as a significant reduction in principal far outweighs the increase in interest.
Additional near-term steps as we move through the liability management process will reduce interest expense.
I'd like to stress we had no near-term maturities.
We have liquidity to execute our business plan but changes must continue to take place in the current commodity backdrop.
We fully anticipate we will be able to execute additional liability management initiatives to strengthen our balance sheet as we move forward.
Slide 21 highlights the financial performance compared to prior periods.
Adjusted EBITDA decreased $7 million from prior quarters due to 5% lower production and 6% lower realized prices.
Average daily production decreased 21 Mmcfe per day due to normal declines consistent with the design of our capital plan I'll remind you we spent a third of our 2015 capital in the first quarter.
The timing of completions including the delay of some wells in South Texas as we changed frac companies to save money and some of the OBO production that we had planned on that has not been forthcoming as other companies are making modifications to their completions and timing in this capital-stressed environment.
Revenue decreased $10 million primarily due to the decrease in realized prices.
Gas price realization was $2.12 for the second quarter compared to $2.04 in the third quarter.
We continued to be impacted by the Appalachian region which had a realized net price of $1.49 during the third quarter.
Oil prices were $10 lower in the third quarter at $43.
The impact of this was partially offset by the cash receipts from our hedging program and settlements.
A moment on the commodity prices Hal had alluded to.
Within the past few months natural gas has reached three-year lows and oil has reached six-year lows.
The average oil market price for year-to-date 2015 is 50% lower than the same period for 2014 and the average gas market price is 40% lower than 2014.
All of these things related to price are outside our control but we're not shying away from the sombering reality that prices could be here for a long period of time and frankly could continue to decrease.
We're focused on the things that are within our control and costs and the ability to drive additional reductions are paramount to this success.
LOE is 20% lower than the 2014 exit rate.
However additional reductions in this area must take place through our vendors are exploring more efficient ways to produce the asset.
Gathering and transportation we worked with a midstream provider to restructure contracts earlier in the year which resulted in a $9 million annual savings.
However additional reductions are necessary.
We have approximately $500 million of (26:24) gross commitments between now and 2022 and there simply has to be reductions in light of the current commodity price.
G&amp;A we've made strides recently and we've reduced G&amp;A 21% year-over-year.
However as a result of the commodity price and the backdrop additional reductions are necessary.
Harold has walked through earlier in the presentation some of the operational success the company has had as we continue to find ways to increase returns in the low cost environment and improve the performance of our assets.
Careful capital deployment is extremely important as we move forward.
We took corrective action in South Texas in light of the commodity price drop and it did not meet our internal hurdle rates.
We're fortunate to still having number of opportunities in this depressed price environment.
I would encourage investors to look at the appendix in the presentation for detailed single well economics.
I want to reiterate the guiding metric will not be production or EBITDA growth.
It will be simply to create value from each dollar spent within the organization.
Slide 22 highlights cash flow results compared to prior period.
At the bottom of the page adjusted operating cash flow decreased $7 million or 16% consistent with the decrease in the underlying adjusted EBITDA driven by lower production and commodity prices I previously stated.
The decline in cash flow from operations was impacted by negative working capital conversions of $19 million in the third quarter compared to positive conversions of $9 million in the second quarter.
This is driven by the timing of cash receipts and the dispersions of interest payments.
Free cash flow deficit was primarily funded by $7.5 million in borrowing and $10 million of issuance of the stock to Bluescape.
The year-to-date free cash flow was an outspend of approximately $143 million.
Turning to slide 23 which highlights our debt and liquidity.
We exited the third quarter with $335 million in liquidity.
However from a pro forma perspective for the transactions we've previously touched on in this call that would have been $395 million.
Next borrowing base redetermination is set for March 2016.
The second lien gives us flexibility to grow our borrowing base consistent with the increase in value and the underlying assets.
The covenant modifications triggered by the issuance of the second lien provides a substantial runway to execute our business plan in this low-commodity price and our primary covenants include a first lien 2.5 times and an interest coverage of 1.25.
I want to stress the importance of preserving our liquidity as we consider future capital plans.
The transactions completed this week related to liability management were simply a first step.
Additional steps are necessary and must take place.
Everything is on the table.
Asset sales joint ventures equity additional debt transactions we will explore any avenue to drive value for the stakeholders of this organization.
The company remained over-leveraged.
We must find ways to improve our leverage ratios and debt-to-market ratios.
We improved our leverage metric one turn as a result of the recent transactions to 4.6 times as of 9/30.
However the metric continues to be challenged due to the impact of commodity prices on our EBITDA.
We must find ways to reduce debt and increase margins.
We have a near-term goal of reducing this ratio to four times and a long-term goal as we execute the business plan over the next five years of 2.5 times.
Slide 24 highlights the recent quarterly results and earnings guidance update.
Oil production as articulated on page 17 of the slides was the high point for the third quarter.
However it came lower than guidance as a result of the delay in turning wells to sales in the Eagle Ford based on us making a strategic decision to save costs when we change frac companies.
We had approximately 11 000 barrels  net barrels to us related to a pipeline fill as we hooked up a pipeline to a downstream sales point.
We expect an increase in the fourth quarter from production to wells that were turned to sales and no impact due to pipeline fill.
Natural gas production was below the midpoint.
We had delays from outside operators in which we have an interest.
Consistent with the design of our capital budget our capital program had higher turn to sales during the first half of the year.
The oil differential was better than the low end of guidance.
We renegotiated a sales contract for certain of our volumes which reduced the rate by $1.45 to $3.55 depending on the delivery point.
The impact of this contract should continue to positively impact our differentials in the fourth quarter.
Gas differentials were worse than the high-end.
The differential is measured on the 1st of the month pricing consistent with 70% of our sales.
However declining spot prices through the remainder of the month negatively impacted our differential.
In addition the differential on Appalachia was wider than forecasted.
Turning to North Louisiana we had adjustments from outside operators on the gas we received from them.
The natural gas differentials on EXCO's operated properties on NYMEX was $0.58 which would have been within the range of guidance if not for the differentials associated with the non-operated gas we received.
Our non-operated gas was approximately 8% of consolidated year-to-date production.
Costs were in line with our guidance and the ranges are expected to stay consistent with the fourth quarter.
We realized the benefit of several cost initiatives however.
And I want to emphasize additional work is needed and must take place as a result of the environment we're living in.
Please note we had a slight revision to the full-year guidance for the impact of suspending our South Texas drilling.
This impact is approximately 200 barrels a day for the entire year based on the results of the first nine months.
Slide 25 highlights our hedge position.
We have 69% hedged at $4.02 on the gas side for the remainder of 2015 and we have 53% hedged at $84 on the oil side.
We continued to add hedges during the third quarter.
As Harold had alluded to we continue to implement our hedge strategy.
But future hedge levels will be dependent on development plans and the underlying market conditions as we move forward.
I'd now turn the call back over to Hal for his closing comments.
Thanks Ricky.
Want to make sure everyone is aware we've called a special meeting of our shareholders for November 16 to consider among other things the proposal to grant our Board of Directors authority to effect a reverse share split if the board deems necessary as well as to reduce the total number of outstanding common shares authorized for issuance.
The proposal if approved by shareholders would authorize our board to effect a reverse share split at a ratio of up to 1 per 10 common shares with the exact ratio to be decided by the board.
Our board will factor the current share price into their decision to implement the split if approved by shareholders.
The proposed reverse share split would affect all shareholders uniformly and will not affect any shareholder's ownership percentage.
In closing we cannot control commodity prices or the markets but we can control the decisions we make in this current commodity price environment and we can control the execution of our strategic improvement plan.
As I've said before I'm confident we have the ability to transform EXCO as we move into the future.
But again while we all expect and demand short-term results the complete transformation of EXCO will require time.
Our goal through the transformation is to create value for all of our stakeholders.
John Wilder our Executive Chairman and our other board members with their significant equity and debt positions are aligned and engaged with management.
We're all accountable for the successful execution of our plan.
Thanks for your time this morning.
We'll now open the line for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Will Green with Stephens.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Hey Will.
Inc.</span></strong> I wonder if we can start on the cost side.
You guys have articulated a lot already there but  maybe on the G&amp;A side  you guys have done an impressive job already getting that down to a $48 million run rate on the G&amp;A side.
Being mindful that these things take time but also that you guys are talking about this as kind of a pending operation to get that down to $35 million how much of that pending $35 million run rate has kind of already been put into motion? And what's a reasonable timeframe we could expect that to be implemented for you guys reaching that $35 million G&amp;A goal? We're working on that every day Will.
We have a target to get that in place here in the short term.
By year-end you will see some significant changes to our cost structure that we think we'll be able to fully realize throughout 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then on the transport cost savings you guys have done a good job there as well.
Can you remind us on that  on the transport savings that you guys announced? We see that on the differential side on a go forward basis or will that be on the gathering and transport side? It will be on the gathering and transport side Will.
Inc.</span></strong> And are there any additional  are there any kind of other big items like that  that you guys are eying right now on the gathering transport line or was that the biggest and  or is it a number of small things at this point going forward? You'll recall we have a significant commitment of firm transportation with multiple companies.
We're in discussions with all Will.
And whether or not they will come to fruition or not remains to be seen but we are working on those every day.
In addition to the firm transportation we have sales contracts that we've already announced some improvements on.
We also have a significant commitment around gathering and we are working on all of the above every day and so I anticipate we'll have some of that done here within the next several weeks but that said I can't guarantee that any of it will come to fruition.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
I appreciate that color.
And then one last one from me maybe is the cost reduction you guys are looking on a D&amp;C basis in East Texas you guys mentioned you're targeting another 10% down from kind of the 2015 average should we think about that as that $1 383 per lateral foot you guys cite on I guess on slide eight it is is that a good kind of benchmark for the baseline of that 10%  where that 10% is going to come out of? Harold? That's right Will.
That slide eight that $1 383.
That $1 383 represents where we are right now that's the current rig rate current fracture stimulation cost.
We've got a little room to improve over and above that but that's our  that $1 383 is the reference point right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Got you.
And so the goal would be bringing that number down by about 10% next year? That's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Well that's all I had guys.
I appreciate all the color.
Thank you Will.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani of RBC.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
You obviously made the decision to shut down the oil program here.
I imagine you guys probably have some wells that have been drilled which haven't been completed you kind of referred to changing frac crews or frac providers here on the call I guess are those just kind of deferred to early 2016? And then just additionally like what type of oil prices do you guys need to see before you reinstitute a drilling program? First let me just clear up we do not have any wells that are awaiting completion in South Texas.
What we've drilled we have completed.
Okay.
With regards to pricing I think we should give a lot of color in our presentation around what some of our economics are.
We've shown that in the last quarter.
We've also shown some this quarter.
Price makes a dramatic impact as you of course understand on our economics.
If we got north of $60 oil we'd have some very very acceptable returns but even at that it's not a guarantee that we'd begin drilling again.
We'll continue to look at our best deployment of capital and what our best opportunities and we'll work it from there.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess on the gas side you guys also alluded the fact that prices are extremely low right now and you guys might reconsider some of your capital plans there.
You talked about three rigs running can you kind of explain what the rig commitments are like what the extent of these contracts and what's your flexibility to potentially lay down rigs if gas stays low here? We got two rigs under long-term contract that go on into next year and one of them actually is beyond.
We have one rig that's on effectively a well-to-well contract.
So we've got some flexibility in what we're doing now.
Okay.
So is it fair to say if prices kind of stayed around here you guys may drop one of those rigs is that a reasonable way to think about it? That's a distinct possibility.
Okay.
Not a commitment but certainly a possibility.
Got you.
All right.
In terms of...
And Leo I'll add more color to that too.
I mean while we have rig commitments we're going to make sure that before we invest dollars we're going to get acceptable returns.
And so if we can put dollars somewhere else and get better returns we're going to consider that and we'll weigh in what discussions we can have with our rig contractor and we'll work it.
So nothing is taken for granted nothing is in as is is necessarily meant to be.
So if that makes any sense at all we're going to look at what our alternatives are just like we're on EFT we'll look at that with rigs as well.
That makes sense.
And I guess in terms of budget for next year when you guys think you'll have that out? Yeah.
We have a budget meeting coming up in the latter part of November.
We'll probably do something akin to what we did last year.
We won't rush to release what that is because we're going to continue to monitor the price environment commodity price environment but we do have a meeting coming up with the board in November and we may have some color thereafter but like we did last year we may delay any announcements until we really have a good understanding of what the commodity price environment is.
That's helpful.
Well I guess with respect to  you talked a lot about your transportation commitments as well as your gathering commitments.
I think in your corporate documents you guys talked about some potential shortfall payments that could have to be made over the next several years.
Can you just give us some more color around that and might you have any type of ballpark estimate as to what like a shortfall payment could be and when do those start kicking in? We have a minimal shortfall payment on our gathering that's due here the last of this year.
It's not a huge commitment at all.
It's not a huge number.
As far as the EFT goes there is so much that needs to be worked around that.
I'm hesitant to give a number.
Ricky do you want to give some more color around that but it's a big commitment.
It's a gross commitment that we put out in our 10-K and that's shared among the appropriate parties.
So anymore color Ricky? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No.
Other than just to highlight a lot of those are predicated on the capital that you deploy and the production  the underlying production.
So there is a lot of work Leo as you get into those outer years a lot of things that are likely to change but to echo Hal's point we've got a minimal amount of short-term on the gathering in BC.
I think there's likely to be some things that can even take place there as we've had some preliminary discussions and the rest of it will be predicated on capital allocation decisions as we move through the remainder of 2015 2016 2017 and 2018.
Thanks Ricky.
That's helpful.
And I guess lastly just in your slides you guys show IRRs in the Holly area in Louisiana to be a little bit better...
Yes.
 than Shelby if I look at your base cases there just walk me through the decision to kind of move all the rigs over to East Texas? It's a combination of things.
I'll let Harold elaborate on some of it.
Some of it in East Texas we're adding proved reserves.
Some of it in East Texas we have significantly more running room to get into a development program which we're really good at.
We've seen some really good results in North Louisiana that excite us.
And while we say we're focusing on East Texas it doesn't mean that we won't have some drilling in North Louisiana.
Harold do you want to build on that? Yeah.
I think it's just the commitment to keep the rigs together.
The group of wells we're drilling down in the East Texas area as we're on this 1 200 foot spacing at Haynesville and Bossier keeping that group of rigs together.
So hence the focus on East Texas to essentially help drive cost down by making that switch in that area.
And also capital just a balance of capital.
We have the opportunities identified in North Louisiana.
We're clearly aware of those and we're monitoring the competitor activity.
We actually have an interest in some of the activity that's going on now from an OBO perspective in North Louisiana so we're gathering that data as well with the larger completions.
So it's a balance that the focus is clearly on East Texas.
You bring up a good point we'll continue to monitor.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you Leo.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tarek Hamid with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hello.
On the gathering and processing negotiations you talked about sort of continuing those negotiations the next couple months.
Is that more focused on minimum volume commitments rate dedication sort of can you just discuss some of the parameters for the negotiation as you look at it? It's all of the above.
You nailed it.
We're going to look at rates we're going to look at term we're going to look at volume commitments we're going to look at how that impacts the PVs and we'll work it from every angle that you bring up.
Okay.
And we don't have any processing agreements.
I heard you mention processing.
Yes sorry I misspoke.
Apologize for that.
And then as you think about differentials rolling through into year-end I know you guys lowered guidance sort of relatively consistent on the differential with last year.
From what you've seen in October is that still a reasonable assumption? Just wondering just with the moves in front month gas prices have you seen any pressure on differentials are they higher or lower? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We clearly have seen in the movement in the front months some pressure.
We're comfortable with the numbers as we contemplated it.
Appalachia continues to be where we have our most challenged differential but we're comfortable with the ranges as we contemplated and did the math in advance of this call.
Okay.
Then just last one for me on liability management side just going through the docs it's my understanding you have about $109 million of availability pari passu with the second lien and then a $125 million of sort of junior or a third-lien capacity.
Is that a fair assumption? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It is.
Okay.
And then are there any limitations on using convertibles or equity or any other sort of instruments that we should be aware of or sort of everything reasonably open from a management standpoint? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Everything is reasonably open.
Obviously we'd evaluate the specific nature.
We've looked at a lot of structures as this thing has moved forward but it's reasonable as you're thinking about to think the toolkit is essentially wide open from a variety of structures that maybe out there that we would contemplate as we move forward on the liability management front.
Got it.
It's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of (47:56).
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Two questions on the liability management side.
One do you have any assets whether that be unproven acreage or JV interest in whatsoever that are not pledged to your borrowing base or your second-lien term loans that could be sold without reducing your liquidity? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> We have some minimal assets but the majority of the assets are included in the basket and are covered by the second lien and the first lien.
Okay.
And the second question is as you're thinking about your capital expenditure plans in the current commodity price environment how are you looking at your IRRs either at the well versus using cash to purchase some of your bonds at these distressed levels that would not only reduce your leverage as well as reduce your interest expense and enhance your free cash flow how are you thinking about that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No as Harold alluded in his comments every dollar that we spend will be  that assumption will be gone through whether it's on the buyback debt or deploy capital or other alternatives that are afforded to us from acquisitions of leases et cetera.
So that's clearly a decision that's being made real time as we evaluate the market conditions and will continue to be made as we move through the remainder of 2015 and into 2016.
We're very mindful of where the debt trades we're very mindful of the commitments this company has from transportation and some of the other areas.
So we think there is an extreme value to be in a secured position as we move forward through the rest of 2015 and into 2016.
And then finally could you remind us what's your RP capacity to buyback any junior debt? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
On the restricted payment piece in light of the second lien it's fair to think of it is around $140 million.
That's $140 million cash not the notional amount of debt but the cash.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Cash.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
$140 million depending on some of the other baskets so $140 million $150 million.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Kimble with Avenue Capital.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks.
As far as buying acreage in North Louisiana can you just talk about size and timing and the opportunities there to give to more runway? We've been looking at some opportunities in North Louisiana and they're just minimal.
There is not a whole lot of acreage that's available for leasing.
And when it comes to acquisitions we're really not in a position where we want to spend a lot of money on PDP and a lot of these acquisitions come with PDP.
So there is not a whole lot of opportunity to acquire acreage in North Louisiana.
We're in the market every day.
We're looking at it.
We will look at opportunities if we can find some locations that we can buy at appropriate valuations we'll certainly consider it.
But I wouldn't see a big move in that area any time in the immediate future.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Owen Douglas with Robert W.
Baird.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question here.
Wanted to quickly ask roughly how many net locations you have undrilled remaining in the East Texas and North Louisiana area? Harold? Take a minute.
I'll refer you back to the type curves on slide 28 in the back of the slide deck on line two and line three that shows the gross location count and the net location count for the different operating areas.
So...
Great.
Those columns you could see the Haynesville the Bossier for East Texas and then you see the North Louisiana the sort of core and then you got the South Texas and then the far right the North Louisiana CCM is an another development area in North Louisiana.
So that should  that should give you the detail there in slide 28.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Owen this is  excuse me.
Owen this is Chris.
We have in addition to these type curves we have other locations but what we try to present here is the inventory of economic opportunities that we'll be looking at here in the near term.
Got you.
I see.
So it looks as though you guys would be able to proceed with a decent amount of drilling for the next couple of years right? Yes.
That's right yeah.
Okay.
If we choose to.
If you choose to that's correct.
And also looking at some of the slides I noticed that for the East Texas you're sort of guiding to a goal of that 2 Bcf per 1 000 foot lateral and I think 2.1 for the North Louisiana.
What's the sort of I guess anticipated timeline for hitting that goal? So on the  we'll start with the East Texas one I'm going to refer back to  if we get to the slide  on slide 10.
Panel three of slide 10 kind of walks through how the  how we improved our proved reserve bookings in the Haynesville from 1.3 Bcf per 1 000 and how we've modified that with larger completions.
We're currently up to the 1.5 Bcf per 1 000.
You can see the 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 is our target.
We've actually achieved the 1.75 Bcf per 1 000 with some of the smaller 1 400 pound per foot completions.
So we're very encouraged by the performance we're seeing with these larger completions that we showed in the slide pack today.
And in terms of being able to achieve that we feel very confident in the 1.75 Bcf per 1 000.
We really just need production history like the plots we show today there's only a few months of production history on these larger completions mainly in the most recent ones being in the Bossier in East Texas.
So we just need to have the additional time and the production history to make that next move.
Timing will be when the data presents that platform to work from.
Over in the North Louisiana area looking at the proved reserves there I'll move back to slide 15.
15.
15.
So the same panel same format for the North Louisiana area slide three.
1.6 is where you were at yearend by making a spacing change and an increased activity or a proppant loading we were  we moved to the 1.9 Bcf per 1 000.
So we're very much  we are already booked at the 1.9 Bcf per 1 000.
So the program that we would likely be in in 2016 for  on a basis in North Louisiana with larger completions Consistent with the large completions that we show on the map in this slide deck and the data that we are obtaining from the wells with other operators that have the larger completions we're definitely seeing an increase in well performance with the larger completion size.
So to make that step it will be a combination of the OBO wells we participate in with bigger completions and then the move we make to  once we re-engage in North Louisiana with the bigger completions we expect to see that.
Okay.
So from the  on the North Louisiana side you're saying that the move from 1.9 up to 2.1 is just really a matter of resuming the drilling activity there.
What about on the East Texas side of things? I think you talked about moving up to 1.75.
But sorry I guess I missed the bridge to sort of hitting that 2 Bcf goal? Yes.
Again on the East Texas side on slide 10 it's  to hit the gold that's with making an additional investment in the larger completions this 2700 pound per foot completion we need to be seeing an incremental increase over and above that 1.75.
Again we've achieved a 1.75 with the smaller 1 400 pound per foot completion.
So it's just we need -need some more performance history with the campaign that's underway currently.
And with that data support that at the right time we'll make that adjustment upward.
We fully expect that that's the path we'll head down.
Putting the point in time of when that will occur just is data dependent.
Okay.
I see.
And just moving over to the Appalachian region at the moment.
So currently you guys are just really trying to hold acreage by production there but in terms of really sort of conversations had I mean are you guys able to effect any  any sort of acreage swaps or anything like that to sort of help improve the contiguous nature of that acreage? You bring up a good point.
Acreage swaps are something that we're always interested in we're in the market with that every day.
We haven't been able to effect any of late but it's something that we certainly will consider and certainly it's a good target to get more contiguous acreage.
Okay.
And then once you achieve a more contiguous acreage block what is the viewpoint there? Just for a while it felt as though this has really not been a core part of the EXCO story.
Is that...
We like the number of locations there.
We don't like the price realization.
We've got some good rock.
We like more contiguous position.
We do believe there is some significant upside there with the Utica and even potentially with the Upper Devonian.
Okay.
I see.
And based on the current capital base that you guys have put together through these  sort of exchanges and fresh capital raises what is your viewpoint in terms of the timeline until you feel like you would need to either return to the well with that sort of transaction or effect some acreage sales? It feels to me as though you guys really applied yourself like sort of  let's call it 18 months to 24 months.
Does that sort of fit with your thinking? Clearly we  the transactions afford us the liquidity it was an important piece moving forward in conjunction with the debt reduction which is a focus area for the company.
I'm not comfortable putting a timeline on kind of how it would push things out.
We clearly are in a position to where we'll evaluate the asset each asset we own on a case-by-case basis but I'm comfortable that we've got near-term liquidity as we think about putting forth capital it now comes down to the returns you can get from each of those dollars and justifying doing so as you think about the other alternatives that are available to us in the marketplace.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of (58:54).
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my call.
I have a couple of quick questions about the balance sheet management.
With regard to the unsecureds that you bought back why did you purchase in private transactions at $0.51 and then trade for like $0.25? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That was a strategic decision that was made.
We had a core group of holders.
We have had conversations for an extended period of time.
We've had lengthy conversations with our advisor.
I'm sure you're aware we've got a lot of expertise in this area that sits on the board and it was a strategic decision that was made to take that large amount of a reduction in the overall debt and we paid the $0.51 on an average to do so.
And I'd also note that on the trading of those notes if you go back and look at the VWAPS and the trading history there over the past couple of months there has not been really any significant volume to support those trading levels.
So I'm not sure if that is a true indication of where the notes trade at based off what you see on your Bloomberg screen.
Yeah I understand.
I mean I think there's been reasonable volume.
Do you intend to go into the market at those levels going forward from here pick off what you can at $0.25 on the dollar? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well going forward we've got a couple of things that we're evaluating with our advisors and the group so that was the first step as I'd alluded to in my prepared comments.
There is additional steps that are necessary.
We're evaluating each of those steps.
As you can imagine there's a lot of different ways to go about that and we're currently working through that and we'll have an announcement when we have made the decision and move forward.
Okay.
One other question with regard to the reverse split.
If your share price stays over $1 what are your intentions? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's up to the board.
The NYSE restriction is such that on the last trading day of the month if you're over $1 the previous 30 trading days have a weighted average value of over $1 then the danger of being delisted by the NYSE goes away.
That said what we're asking for at this shareholder approval and at this board meeting is just to give the board the authority to implement a reverse share split if they so choose.
Sure.
I understood.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> It's not a definitive decision.
I understand that.
I would just like to suggest that you consider not doing it if you can maintain the $1 share price.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So noted.
Thank you.
Thank you for your time.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sean Sneeden with Oppenheimer.
Your line is open.
Thanks for fitting me in here.
Maybe just on the capital structure initiatives you guys have undertaken Hal or Ricky how important is it to have a borrowing base or RBL with an actual commercial bank? Maybe said another way would you guys look at just kind of  at the current strip would you ever look at terming it out with more permanent financing on the balance sheet and making sure that you don't lose any potential borrowing base as we go forward? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We clearly look at all the options.
We're fortunate that we've had a very supportive bank group.
We've worked through a couple of amendments to modify some covenants going back into last year and have a very good long-term relationship which has afforded us the ability to kind of move forward with that commercial bank group and get the covenant flexibility that allows us to make the decisions we think necessarily to run the business.
But we clearly understand where prices are and are in a position to where at the appropriate time we would consider terming out that piece of debt if the cost and everything else warranted it as we can evaluate that as an option.
Okay.
And so I guess from your vantage point you feel pretty comfortable as you kind of look forward today and recognizing that you haven't gone through year-end reserves but feel pretty comfortable with the level of liquidity that you should have available if you were to go forward with your spring redetermination? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> I do.
I mean one of the things that we did and we touched on in the comments is our next redetermination is in March in 2016.
Obviously there is a lot of time in this business between now and March very comfortable with where the banks have gotten to from a price perspective or an underlying value perspective as they evaluate our reserves the same group has been doing it for a long period of time.
So there is a comfort level but noting prices are extremely challenged and the things continued to  the way they are there is the option of terming that out as we move forward through the remainder of 2015 and into 2016 prior to that redetermination.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then maybe just two quick ones.
Sure.
Hal at what point does it make sense to begin to shut in production maybe specifically within Appalachia does that ever make economic sense? And then...
It does make economic sense and we haven't highlighted it.
But we actually have some minimal volumes that we've shut in over the last quarter and even today.
Okay.
That's  it's helpful.
And then just lastly can you maybe talk to what you think your PDP base decline is specifically within East Texas and North Louisiana? Sure.
The PDP base decline in Haynesville when you look back at the mature wells were about 35% that's our base decline.
So for both areas that's fairly representative.
And I think as you look at us going forward and you go back and look historically at the number of wells we've drilled particularly in North Louisiana is our spacing has evolved over time there.
So what I think you'll see going forward is as we go to four wells per section that should help mitigate some of that decline curve with the baseload of wells.
Okay.
And so I guess with that in mind as you think about what 2016 the goal to try to get that under a 30% type of number? I'm not sure if we'll get there next year or not.
It really is driven by how many wells that we would go out and drill in North Louisiana.
But obviously every stick we put in the ground now we think will have a better production profile than the ones we've drilled historically under eight wells or seven wells a section.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Operator we are beyond our one-hour window.
So we'd just like to take one more call please or one more question excuse me.
Your last question comes from the line of Steven Karpel.
Your line is open.
Appreciate you extending just for me.
Did you talk about in first off the Utica where you have the Utica presence or where you're most hopeful in that 40 000 acres as I look at the map and maybe be  if you can be as specific as possible it would be appreciated.
Harold do you want to take that? There's a couple of areas as we monitor industry activity in the Northeast that are very interesting to us.
But kind of when you look at our asset base and you look at our acreage position you look at that proof of acreage on the map across the Armstrong the Jefferson kind of the Western part from our perspective that area is very interesting.
And then also up in the Lycoming area as well we're monitoring activity both  on really both the ends of the play from our perspective.
The 45 000 acreage we referenced is mainly that Armstrong area that's the area that we're very interested in.
One thing you didn't talk about on this call is as you shut down drilling in South Texas is the status too one (1:06:56) I presume the answer is basically de minimis for buybacks from KKR? And then the second piece of that is what is the latest in terms of renegotiating the deal with them? We continue to have ongoing dialog with KKR in our South Texas area.
They have been a good partner.
The structure has some complexities with buybacks as you know.
We are contractually obligated to make the offers each quarter which we've done obviously where pricing is compared to the capital that has been put forward from their perspective.
We'll just see how that moves forward but we continue to make the contractual obligated offers each quarter.
And at these prices it's really KKR's option if they want to sell those at these depressed prices.
We've had some discussions about various things to modify that contract just with the underlying commodity price it's a situation to where the dialog continues to be ongoing but there's not been any substantive movement in that in light of  we're below the $70 threshold to drill and a variety of other factors.
So I'd summarize that it's ongoing.
We'll continue to make our offers they're very receptive as we've talked about some ideas as we have been when they are brought in forth but there's been no substantive conclusion to that as we've thought about the best ways to modify that contract to simplify it for both parties.
Great.
And then lastly I don't believe John Wilder is on the phone but maybe you can answer on his behalf.
Has he bought any shares in the secondary market per his obligations? I presume the answer is no given the capital markets activity you've done but then I would ask when can he start making purchases and when does he need under the current agreement to really  to wrap that up.
Thank you.
Yeah.
He has been subject to the blackout as all of us prior to earnings.
I know his group is working to put a plan in place that will allow the execution of those open market purchases as outlined in the contract we have with them.
And then he has a period of time from the closing of that I believe it's a year to execute and finalize those open market transactions.
So that will be obviously up to him but the window will be open as a result of releasing earnings tomorrow.
VP-Finance &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you everyone for your interest in our call this morning.
We really appreciate the questions and we'll be available.
If you have further questions reach out to us.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Beck and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to our Fourth Quarter and Year End 2015 Results.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Chris Peracchi you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining EXCO Resources' fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
Hal Hickey our Chief Executive Officer and President; Harold Jameson our Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Ricky Burnett our Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer will provide our perspective on EXCO's results followed by Q&amp;A session.
You can access our slides on our website excoresources.com and we will refer to these during our remarks.
Since many of our remarks today will concern our expectations for the future they are subject to numerous risk factors as elaborated upon in our 10-K 10-Q and other filings.
These comments constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Act.
Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as disclosed by EXCO from time-to-time in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As a result of these factors our actual results may differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to Hal to begin.
Thanks Chris.
Good morning again.
Thanks everyone for your interest and participation in our fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call.
On today's call I'll discuss the progress we continue to make on our strategic improvement plan and our fourth quarter and full year operational and financial highlights.
I'll then turn the call over to Harold to review our operations and assets.
Ricky will expand on liquidity and liability management initiatives and financial results.
Then we'll take your questions.
Natural gas and crude oil prices remain extremely challenged and oil and gas companies continue to reduce drilling activity as evidenced by the continued decline in land rig count.
There are currently approximately 475 land rigs working down some 60% compared to a year ago with approximately 100 of the rigs drilling for natural gas.
Spot gas prices are trading around levels not seen since 1999 back to prices this month of $1.68.
Natural gas remains under pressure due to mild winter weather record gas inventories and high absolute levels of production even as the year-over-year rate of production growth has fallen substantially.
Gas prices will continue to be challenged during the injection season incentivizing additional cold gas switching but assuming normal weather we believe the outlook for gas will improve overtime due to multiple factors including the significant drop in rigs which could result in the first year of flat to declining production since 2005.
LNG exports during the first Gulf Coast shipment recently sailed higher exports to Mexico and Canada increasing power generation demand and expansion of the gas driven industrial complex.
Longer term demand drivers for natural gas are compelling and while there is still uncertainty on how the natural gas market will evolve over the next couple of years we do believe we can navigate through this challenging market environment due to our high quality asset base low cost overhead capital discipline significant liquidity continuous improvement drive and very importantly the supported Board of Directors and owners.
We took decisive action throughout 2015 to tackle the market challenges as summarized on Slide 2.
John Wilder our Executive Chairman has led the strategic improvement plan that we executed in 2015 and we are doing more to achieve our goals.
We've been managing our liabilities reducing our well cost LOE and G&amp;A refocusing on where we spend our capital and building upon our strengths and abilities which include drilling and completing value enhancing wells and improving their deliverability restructuring our commitments and a linear cost structure absolutely key to generating long-term value for our owners as we work through this cycle.
We've been making successful changes to our balance sheet organizational structure cost capital program and drilling completion designs as we execute on our strategic improvement plan as outlined on Slide 3.
We will remain unwavering in our 2016 focus.
We delivered operational and financial results within our full year guidance for '15 while spending $23 million or 8% less than our budgeted CapEx.
For 2015 actual CapEx of $277 million was down 35% from '14 and we're spending significantly less in 2016.
We've improved our debt structure by reducing our total debt by $402 million or 26% during the fourth quarter.
In 2016 we've continued to focus on extending our liquidity runway reducing our unsecured notes by an additional $49 million.
Managing our liquidity is absolutely key as we work through this cycle.
Other liability management initiatives include working with our gathering and transportation providers to reduce our near-term rates.
In 2015 we renegotiated sales and transportation contracts in North Louisiana and South Texas realizing $10 million in savings and we're evaluating multiple options to achieve further cost reductions targeting even greater reductions in 2016.
We're transforming EXCO into a low cost producer as we rationalize both corporate and operational overhead.
We reduced our workforce by 44% in 2015 and we continue to pursue additional corporate cost saving initiatives.
We're targeting an additional $8 million run rate reduction in overhead cost in 2016.
We reduced our 2015 drilling and completion cost by 28% on a lateral foot basis while at the same time dramatically increasing the amount of profit utilized and we have plans for further cost reductions.
We're also targeting a $5 million reduction in LOE in 2016 as we continue to look at all cost throughout the organization.
Our approved 2016 $70 million operated drilling and completion budget drilled nine gross wells through June '16 and completes 18 gross wells through August '16 a reduction of $101 million or 59% versus the comparable period in 2015.
Our 2016 development in East Texas is focused on continuing to increase value for our investors as it represents our platform for future growth.
We're completing and turning to sales wells we drilled in East Texas during 2015 to further validate our improved results.
The wells feature enhanced completion methods including the use of more than 2700 pounds of proppant per lateral foot.
The results have outperformed our proved result type curve based on a EUR of 1.5 Bcf for 1000 lateral feet for Haynesville Shale and Bossier Shale wells.
1.5 Bcf represents a 15% increase from year-end 2014 EURs and there is potential for additional upside as more production history has established.
We have a 1.75 Bcf target and a 2.0 Bcf per 1000 foot goal for these wells.
We are now drilling in North Louisiana and applying our modified Haynesville Shale well design which includes enhanced completion methods and longer lateral tests that have proven to be successful in East Texas.
These initiatives are expected to increase our Haynesville Shale well economics and most importantly enhance our value and optionality around future developmental when process recover.
We have demonstrated through our liability management and issues that we are making capital allocation decisions based on rates of return across both sides of the balance sheet to ensure we achieve the highest returns and best use of our capital.
We stopped drilling in South Texas due to low oil prices and have been focusing our development program in East Texas and North Louisiana where we have been able to appraise our locations and enhance their value.
We will continue to monitor the economics in this area to ensure we are appropriately managing our capital spending and we will be having discussions with our board in the near term regarding additional drilling if any in 2016.
We continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our portfolio and increase our drilling inventories through acquisitions.
As we drive our cost down to become the low cost producer we will be able to leverage our operating and technical expertise and scale through acquisitions and other structures to maximize our value.
We are also evaluating divestitures of non-core assets that can provide capital that can be redeployed to higher rate or return projects or enhance our financial performance and liquidity.
Without Board we have the support and guidance from world-class institutional sponsors.
These owners represent approximately 50% of our outstanding shares hold a significant amount of our debt have historically provided capital and support our efforts.
Slide 4 highlights the results of balance sheet focus liability management efforts that have improved our debt structure and provided structural liquidity.
We have reduced our 2018 senior unsecured notes by $602 million or 80% as we focused on our nearest term note maturity.
We have $125 million of secured debt capacity for future exchanges or issuance of new secured debt and we are evaluating additional liability management and issues.
We have $270 million available on our credit agreement.
Our asset base is highly supportive of $375 million borrowing base and we do not have any debt maturities till 2018.
We remain liquidity focused to enhance our runway and continue implementing our improvement plan.
Panel one of Slide 5 summarizes the size of prize as we look to restructuring our gathering and transportation contracts to enhance liquidity.
Between above market rates and unused volumes we have a large universe of dollars available for potential value capture.
We have some success negotiating improved differentials and lower transport rate but we must in our doing more as we consider both commercial and legal options.
Slide 6 highlights our relentless focus on reducing our corporate overhead burden.
We have lowered our annualized cash G&amp;A which includes capitalized salaries about 40% with our 2015 efforts and we have a target of an additional 27% on a reduction basis in 2016.
We have moved from a third quartile to a first quartile position and plan on moving to top this outperformance with our 2016 target.
I'll now turn the call over to Harold to review our operational performance successes.
Thanks Hal.
Moving to Slide 7 our operations team has made significant progress in drilling efficiencies that improve the returns on capital we deploy.
Panel one charts our most recent 6 oil wells drilled in East Texas.
As you could see all the wells were drilled faster than AFE averaging 39 days or 7 days under our AFE.
Our team has made considerable progress with the mud system hole cleaning procedures bid selection improved rate of penetration and we have demonstrated sound consistency and strong execution.
Panel two charged the first three wells we drilled in 2016 in North Louisiana.
It's been almost a year since we last drilled in North Louisiana but as you can see in the graph we performed exceptionally well.
We drilled our most recent well in 23 days which is our all-time record in the Haynesville where we drilled over 500 horizontal wells.
The other two wells drilled in the same unit also make our all-time top ten list.
These first three wells in our 2016 program averaged 26 days from spud to rig release versus a planned AFE of 31 days.
This translates to per well saving of $300 000 compared to AFE.
Our current AFE for a Holly well with a 4 500 foot lateral is $6.2 million.
We are very pleased with our improved and consistent drilling performance in both areas and we will continue to build on these successes.
Panel three illustrates the reduction in costs by major components we realized in the Haynesville over the last year.
The cost reductions are combinations of price reductions design and procedure changes implemented by our engineers and improved efficiencies and execution by our well site team it has been highly successful in optimizing costs and improving logistics on location.
Our supply chain operations team service providers and suppliers have worked very efficiently to reduce cost and improve efficiencies to manage through this down-cycle.
We are expecting significant performance improvement in our Holy wells as a result of larger completion designs including profit loading of 2700 pounds per foot higher rates of 16 million cubic feet per day and higher sustained floor rates over time due to the larger completion design.
We have drilling locations booked at 2 Bcf per 1000 foot of lateral which is our rated year-end [ph] proved reserves estimates and our target is slightly higher at 2.1 Bcf per 1000.
On Slide 8 Panel one provides an overview of planned capital investments for 2016.
The total budget of $103 million includes drilling activity for the first half of the year completions through August of 2016 and other capital for the full year.
This level of spending on the drilling and completion portion of the budget is 59% lower than the comparable period in 2015.
We have two rigs currently drilling in North Louisiana and our plans for the second half of 2016 will be evaluated based on our success and delivery in these initial wells on time and on budget and the commodity price outlook.
Panels two and three summarize the capital spending in 2016 by category and projected well counts by area.
Slide 9 summarized our year-end proved reserves.
We have 907 Bcf equivalent of proved reserves of SEC PV-10 of $402 million.
As you can see on panel three we added a 198 Bcf equivalent through extensions and discoveries with a 126 Bcf of 64% coming from East Texas with the successful development of our Shelby area.
These development efforts help demonstrate the up-side of our East Texas assets.
Other revisions of previous estimates included a 184 Bcf equivalent of upward revisions due to performance and other factors with 152 Bcf or 83% coming from North Louisiana due to modifications in well design and reductions in capital costs.
We had downward revisions of 616 Bcf equivalent as result of decreased commodity prices.
SEC pricing decreased from $4.35 per Mmbtu to $2.59 for natural gas and 94.99 per barrel to $59.28 for oil.
On NYMEX strip basis our PV-10 was $811 million year-end more than two times our $375 million borrowing base.
Now I'll turn the discussion over to Ricky for more details on our recent financial activity results.
Thanks Harold and good morning.
We remain focused on cost reductions and performance improvements that we can control.
EXCO has demonstrated its resiliencies during these times as many of our peers have succumbed to financial distress.
We are carefully deploying capital in a price sensitive environment as evidenced by our reduction in the 2016 capital budget.
We continuously reassess our plans to ensure we are generating attractive returns we have no issues shutting down or ramping up based on market conditions as evidenced by our actions.
As previously stated our mentality is focused on ensuring we maximize the value of every dollar spent for the benefit of our owners.
Turning to Slide 10 where I would like to highlight that we have no near term maturities.
We executed a series of transactions during the fourth quarter and it reduced the principal of our indebtedness by $402 million compared to the prior quarter.
We utilized NOLs to offset the taxable income associated with these transactions and still have $1.8 billion in NOL to offset future taxable income.
We continue to execute additional liability management transactions in 2016 and repurchase $49 million of additional notes.
The payback period from these investments on interest savings alone is approximately 20 months.
We plan to execute additional repurchases at significant discounts to par further reducing our principal outstanding.
As a result of the repurchases trading liquidity in our notes has declined and prices may not reflect the underlying value of our debt.
Our nearest note maturity is due in 2008 and the principal balance has been reduced from $750 million to $149 million through March 1.
We have $225 million of wings capacity which can be used for further exchanges issuance of additional indebtedness or other matters.
Our liquidity we ended 2015 with liquidity of $334 million.
Our liquidity into February has not changed materially although we have drawn in our revolver this has been more than offset by cash flows from an operator that was included in working capital where we received a prepayment from one of our customers to reduce our risk as we manage through this cycle.
Our capital program for 2016 will be funded with cash flows from operations and borrowing under the credit agreement.
Our liquidity represents approximately 3x the capital program approved by our Board of Directors.
Our next borrowing base is in late March and we believe our reserves are more than sufficient to support the borrowing base as evidenced by our year-end NYMEX PV-10 proved reserves of $811 million compared to our borrowing base of $375 million.
Overtime we've established a strong partnership with our bank group and since year-end 2004; we have reduced the bank group's exposure by approximately 60%.
In October 2015 we reduced our borrowing base from $600 million to $375 million in connection with our second lien term loan issuance as we termed out $300 million of our credit agreement balance.
A significant portion of the second lien notes are held by funds represented by members of our Board of Directors who are committed to our continued success.
We have received positive feedback from our lead bank on our pending spring redetermination and they are supportive of reaffirming on borrowing base at $375 million.
Unlike several of our peers we don't precede the need for modifications to our debt covenants to remain in compliance.
We read as the banks have considerable discretion in setting our borrowing base and our liquidity could be negatively impacted if the borrowing base is substantially reduced.
We're currently involved in a litigation matter with the joint venture partner in the Eagle Ford which could also impact our liquidity.
We see our disclosure in our SEC filings for further information on this topic.
We're hopeful we can reach a commercial solution that's beneficial to both parties.
I want to stress as evidenced by our actions we will consider any and all steps to maximize our liquidity and deliver value to our investors.
Turning to Slide 11 production for the full year 2015 was 340 Mmcfe per day a 3% decline from prior year adjusted for asset divestiture.
Production was relatively flat considering capital decrease 35% from the prior year demonstrating the efficiency of our capital probe.
In addition we've shut in 1.1 Bcfe in Appalachia as a result of the low regional prices we were receiving there.
G&amp;A for the full year 2015 decreased by approximately 20% excluding the severance that we paid to the employees that are no longer with us.
We reduced our headcount by 32% in the fourth quarter and 44% year-over-year.
We have also eliminated numerous benefits including the 401(k) match and are aggressively looking for other items that can be reduced.
We expect to realize the full impacts of these initiatives during 2016.
We had a 39% decline in adjusted EBITDA for the full year '15 which was primarily driven by lower commodity prices including a 50% reduction in realized oil and a 46% reduction in the realized natural gas price.
Now turning to Slide 12 where the actuals are compared to guidance.
During the fourth quarter and full year actuals began we delivered our full year 2015 operational and financial results and they were within guidance with the exception of interest expense which was lower than guidance.
Production was right at the midpoint of the range for the full year on an oil side due to recent activity in the Eagle Ford although we are encouraged by the cost and performance of these wells due to the current commodity price we are no longer developing this asset at this time.
Natural gas production at fourth quarter was towards the high end of guidance despite the shut-ins in Appalachia as previously mentioned.
The strong performance from recent wells turned to sales in East Texas was able to offset these shut-in bonds.
Natural gas production was in line with the midpoint to the full year.
Oil differentials for the fourth quarter 2015 were higher than guidance due to the narrowing of the LLS WTI spread.
Gathering and transportation was at the low end for the full year 2015.
We have been working with our midstream providers to restructure contracts and we achieved some success during 2015.
However I want to stress there is a lot of work to be done here and we are evaluating all commercial and legal options to do so.
G&amp;A was above guidance during the fourth quarter with $2.7 million in severance and $1.8 million accrual for the Bluescape annual incentive payment.
The true savings these recent reductions in force will be more evidenced in our 2016 guidance as they occurred late in the quarter.
For the full year G&amp;A was towards the high end of our guidance however it did not contemplate $5.3 million in severance and $4.5 million in Bluescape accruals.
The advisory services from Bluescape were attributed to us being a top desk oil performer as we were comparing to our peer group.
Interest in the fourth quarter was below guidance.
The carrying value of the second lien term loan issued in the debt exchange was recorded based on undiscounted principle plus future interest in accordance with GAAP.
The payments reflected in interest on the exchanged term loan will be treated as a reduction in the carrying amount and will not be reported as interest expense under GAAP.
Debt repurchases at a discount cost will continue to reduce our interest expense.
Our open market repurchases have resulted in approximately $6.5 million with interest reductions on an annual basis.
Turning to Slide 13 where we've highlighted our first half 2016 guidance.
It reflects our limited capital over there oil production decline as we do not have plans to develop in this region at the current path [ph].
Natural gas production will continue to decline in the first quarter than increase in the second as we start to see the volumes from wells turned to sale late in the first quarter and early in the second.
Oil differentials will continue to be impacted by the LLS WTI spread and natural gas differentials should stay consistent.
Lease operating expenses are expected to be consistent on a per Mcf basis due to the lowering of production.
However we expect a decrease in absolute dollars as we realize our goal of $5 million savings in LOE.
Gathering and transportation will increase on a Mcfe basis given the decline in production and the fixed nature of the contracts.
However the restructuring of these contracts is a key focal point of our strategy and we are working tirelessly to improve the economic and bring these in line with market rates.
A significant reduction in G&amp;A spend guided in the 2016 guidance impacts the reduction of the cost reduction initiatives.
We continue to rationalize our corporate overhead to ensure they are commensurate with the value created by our business.
Slide 14 highlights our hedge positions.
Our hedge position and our price is significantly above the current market which provides this protection in the near term and gives us the optionality in the future years.
We have 73% of our PDP forecast hedged at $2.90 on the gas side and 42% of our PDP forecast hedged at the oil side of $61.89.
We remain committed to protecting the returns on the capital deployed.
Our recent hedge was a swap for 20 million Mmbtu per day in February for $2.35 which is consistent with the pricing needed to support our type curves on slide 23.
We continue to look at entering into additional contracts for 16 and beyond.
The levels of hedging would be dependent on the development plans and market conditions.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We will now open the line for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Will Green.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Hey Will.
Appreciate the cover you guys provide on 2016.
One thing I want to ask you guys about is in the back half of the year if we are looking at a situation where you guys decide to go on to that kind of maintenance type mode that you guys have as a playful out there right now what kind of legacy decline would you guys be up against so we can think about the production profile after you guys stop completing wells in the first half of the year? Harold would you take that question? Sure.
Our base decline overall for the company Will we are looking at 34% that's largely driven of course by the Haynesville volumes and East Texas and North Louisiana with that being the biggest portion of the company but that overall decline on a base just true base excluding the way we are looking that is excluding the impact of new well additions prior to that as we enter into 2016 over the mid-30s 34%.
Okay I appreciate the color there.
And then can you talk about the process of looking at the program in the back half of the year is that something that would make sense I know the current strip is little bit of pressure but could you guys find something within the portfolio that would make sense to drill in a current strip environment? If so where would that activity be directed? If not what would it take to green light something in the back half? I can see a scenario where we do not drill in the second half of the year.
And with the current commodity prices it is significant challenge.
We are very conscious of maintaining our cash flow and liquidity ensuring that we are using every precious dollar for the best purpose we can and so scenarios that would drive us to drill we have to see a significantly higher gas price but right now it's some tough decisions we are going to have to make.
We are going to have to understand what the impacts would be on our balance sheets our liquidity and our performance score forward so it will be a discussion we have in the near future with the board.
Great I appreciate that and then maybe one more on the G&amp;A side.
I know you guys talked a little bit about this.
It looks like a pretty meaningful decline from first quarter and second quarter that you guys are modelling out.
Is that a second quarter G&amp;A number is that a good number to use going forward for the rest of the year at least now is that a good run-rate for you guys? Yes Ricky? Will that's a number that I've used for the rest of the year that's the second quarter as you look to put them out.
Perfect thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jess Davis [ph].
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks.
I guess my numbers are heavier than $20 million pre hedges data and about $55 million after hedges which puts you about 20 times leveraged so other than additional revolver draws additional debt what other options do you think you have for your interest in CapEx? Ricky? Yes I don't have the same numbers that you do as we look toward 2016 plan as I look at it.
I am looking at outstanding of approximately $120 million and that is based on the approved capital that includes some debt repurchases in the open market.
Obviously the cash flows are sensitive as we look at the commodity price movement for every $0.10 2016 every $0.10 on the gas side of price change is about a $5 million change in EBITDA.
So my numbers are different than what you just put from a levered perspective.
Okay.
And there has been a couple of your peers that have in their filings recently noted that they may lose access to their revolvers.
Given they can't make the solvency representation in those revolvers and you have a similar representation there which you effectively have to state that the assets are worth more than the liabilities.
So I am assuming you are comfortable making that representation so in the context of prepping to your banks in a material contract that the assets are worth more than the liabilities and your large shareholders purchasing shares in the open market why do you think philosophically your debt holders should take big heir cuts? I don't have a philosophical view on it we evaluate it based on the underlying market conditions and where the debt is currently traded and we are in a position where we are trying to put forward capital for the absolute best return so from a philosophical perspective I don't have an opinion on that.
We tried to look at the market and then take advantage of the underlying commodity price and deploy capital where it's most advantageous to the owners of this company.
Okay.
But you will rep to the banks that they assets are more than the liabilities? Well we stated in our prepared remarks the value we have done a lot of thing to move away from and we are not in a situation like some our peers to where we have just the revolver in place.
Terming out the second lien was a big piece of that at the time we talked about matching the capital structure with the profile of the asset base that was a big piece of that.
We worked concurrently with the banks as we moved through 2015 during the liability management exercise so I am very comfortable with the value of the borrowing base about the projected value of the borrowing base in light of the underlying value of the assets even in light of the commodity pricing.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Steven Carpow [ph].
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I just wanted to understand if I look at your drilling program versus your completion program can you walk us through again I didn't follow all the numbers in terms of what your backlog is and then why is there a disparity between the completions and the drilling numbers? For the backlog it's really the 2015 wells in East Texas that we just spud and drilled in 2015 that are in the completion phase now there is a carry in component.
So let me refer to slide 8 and if you look at panel three on Slide 8 the East Texas area when you see the $28 million of capital that's capital related to the completion activity of that drilling campaign that's in progress now.
So that's the drilling or the completion piece East Texas.
Now when we shift to North Louisiana the two rigs now are in North Louisiana that component that represents the nine new wells were spud drilled and complete in 2016 and that's represented on the second line on panel three and the total is $42 million.
So as far as any additional inventory or wells waiting on completion we have none.
We have everything in the completion phase that we are carrying into East Texas and then we will drill the nine wells in North Louisiana and that's the combined program in the approved 2016 capital budget as we stand today.
So maybe make it easy for me.
Year-end 2016 what will the backlog of wells be? Zero.
Perfect and you noted the contract change on the gathering side on unit basis how much did that change? And I know you are not going to say who it is with but can you give us a sense on so maybe we can understand the bigger trend here.
What type of participant that was with and what kind of change was made in the contract and how we should think about that for others? Obviously lot of talk in the industry about it not as many seem to be getting changes so I want to understand what this means in a bigger content? The particularly contract you maybe referencing is one where we did a blend and extend we added some term to our contract reduction in rate of about a third.
So it was roughly $0.10 that came off of our contract and we added some years to the term so it was PV positive event for us for certain.
And what was that contract exactly how much gathering versus well head well head gathering versus processing etcetera? What I'm talking about in particular is the transportation contract on a pipeline.
And maybe a bit more specific how long was the pipeline contract was - was this pure gathering? And then are you having success as the peer well head gathering level too? That was a transportation contract Steven.
This was a transportation contract of an intra-state line.
As far as the gathering contracts we're in some negotiations with them as we speak so ask you to standby for further information on them.
Can you qualitatively say are you getting support from your well head gatherers? We are having discussions with them that seem to be heading in the right direction so it's very constructive at this point.
So yes I would say it's a constructive conversation I think we're getting support.
We haven't signed the final deal on any of those yet so we're working towards it.
So again we'll apprise you as appropriate.
Understood.
And how much more ability do you have on the bond buyback front whether it's restricted payment room or room under the credit agreement what not on a dollar cash - on a cash basis? I'm not going to get into the specific amounts we have left but we have the ability to be in the market to the extent the conditions weren't to continue that program as we get into '16.
And overall the color was that we have the opportunity to continue to have a significant impact on our liabilities.
And I know I got a lot but I'll just sneak in one last one on part of that.
Sure.
Do you think about your CapEx budget of $103 million is there - is potential to divert more of that capital obviously the returns are very favorable on the bond buybacks.
And even looking at some of the drilling reserves is there potential to divert some of that capital? There is to move some of that capital around absolutely.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Mr.
Hal Hickey for closing remarks.
We appreciate your interest this morning.
Thank you for your continued interest in EXCO and we'll talk to you next time.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.